ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u1	Minister, the Law of 22 May 2003 on the organisation of the budget and the accounting of the federal state entered into force on 1 January 2012. Since then, the Court of Auditors has found that there is considerable delay in the introduction of the new public accounting system and that there are shortcomings in accounting management. Also in 177th Book, part III concerning the general account 2019 of the general government of the federal state, the Court of Auditors reviews the issue and formulates new and additional recommendations. According to the Court of Auditors, Justice has made progress and made improvements, especially since the Accounting Cell was set up in 2019 at the Budget and Management Control Department, which is the priority to help Justice take the necessary measures and to comply as best as possible with the requirements of the Law of 22 May 2003. However, the Court of Auditors continues to observe that the actions necessary to ensure the fidelity of the operations of Justice in the general administration's accounts cannot be completed in the short term. This may have a negative impact on the Court's judgment in the context of the certification of the federal state's financial statements. Minister, the shortcomings of the past are obviously not your responsibility. I am well aware of that. These are shortcomings of several of your predecessors. It is important, however, to pay urgent attention to this. Can you tell me, Minister, why the Court of Auditors' various recommendations to remedy the shortcomings have still not been met by the Justice Department? According to the Court of Auditors, the recent establishment of a Accounting Cell at the Budget and Management Control Department with the priority aim of improving the fidelity of Justice's operations in FEDCOM is a major step forward, but it may be too late to make up for all the shortcomings mentioned by the Court of Auditors for the certification of the financial statements. What initiatives will you take to avoid a negative impact on the Court's judgement in the context of the certification of the financial statements? The Court of Auditors has made a number of new and additional recommendations in its latest edition. I refer to page 171 in the Court of Auditors' report. It is important, however, to pay due attention to this, especially in view of the opinion that the Court of Auditors should formulate when certifying the accounts of the federal state. Are you going to take initiatives to meet this also in the face of urgency? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u2	Mrs Dillen, my department is fully aware of the great challenge of fully complying with the law of 22 May 2003 and the implementing decisions. Under my predecessor, the FPS Justice has taken many initiatives, which continue and which have my full support. The central administration of the FPS Justice has been working with the FEDCOM application since 1 January 2019. The purpose of the introduction of that application is to manage the accounting data of all entities of the FPS Justice in a single application as far as possible and in a standardised manner. The support services of the colleges, courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office also joined FEDCOM in the course of 2019. At the beginning of 2020, the State Security also joined. Colleagues, I assume you are aware that the FPS Justice is a very extensive and very heterogeneous organisation. Justice is the crossroads of different constitutional powers, the judicial order, the prison system, the security of the state, the central administration and the various autonomous committees. As a result, the FPS Justice is not comparable to other federal departments, which mostly fall under the executive powers. In concrete terms, the improvement of accounting is not a single activity, which can be handled independently of the Budget and Management Control (B&B). Accounting is not just about pure accounting processes and transactions. The procurement procedures and logistical management processes, which cross-sectionally run through the FPS Justice Department, are also part of the law. It requires awareness in the justice chain that budgetary capabilities and financial operations need to be properly recorded. All services must also standardise their processes, recruit and train the right profiles, apply internal control mechanisms and register much more than previously. In the FEDCOM global multi-annual project, the FPS Justice is preparing to integrate the FEDCOM application and its operation for the benefit of all users. Apart from the technical aspect, much attention is also paid to the organisational structure, processes and procedures, as well as to the training of those who will participate in these processes. In view of the complexity and extent of the introduction of the FEDCOM application, the project will continue in 2021. The FPS Policy and Support has an important technological share in this. Unfortunately, the covid pandemic also has a delaying impact on the mega-project, in particular on the training and training of the new users of the FEDCOM application. It must be said, even if the introduction of FEDCOM offers enormous opportunities and it is evidently a step forward, FEDCOM also has a number of limitations. Linking FEDCOM to business applications, of which Justice has a lot, is not easy. Installing automatic workflows is difficult. FEDCOM's reporting is not clear either. Finally, I would like to point out that, in addition to the Court of Auditors, the Federal Internal Audit carried out a thorough analysis of the state of play in 2019 and 2020. The results of both audits confirm that serious progress is being made within the Justice Department to improve general accounting and financial statements. We are not yet where we need to be, but with Team Justice we are making progress. In reply to your second question, I can inform you that within the B&B staff department, the Accounting Service continues to professionalise itself, in order to take the necessary steps to improve the quality of the accounting figures on the basis of the recommendations of the Court of Auditors and the Federal Internal Audit. It also takes the necessary initiatives to raise awareness of the importance of proper accounting. Several action plans were drawn up with regular follow-up by management. I would like to stress once again that the drafting of correct annual accounts is not the sole task of the Accounting Service. Other processes also have an important impact on the accounting figures. That is why there is the Just4You FEDCOM project that has been launched by the FPS Justice Department under the impetus of the B&B staff and that runs across the Justice Department. The strengthening of the staff framework of the B&B staff and the expansion of financial services throughout the department is also one of my actions in 2021. In recent years, the savings imposed and the under-financing of Justice have led to an impoverishment of these services. I have therefore instructed my administration to make a realistic proposal for reinforcement. In reply to your third question, I would like to point out that, in conjunction with the Federal Internal Audit, an in-depth action plan was drawn up to enable improvements to be made in all the areas listed. The action plan was validated by the management committee of my department, so that everyone is aware of the importance of improving the quality of the annual accounts. Together with the operational services, the B&B staff is working on better, daily and monthly recordings of operations, on better controls, on better information flow and on a wider exchange of reports. This approach is a major step forward, but as has been said, the great step forward will only come if Justice as a whole and in all its entities properly implement the FEDCOM application. To this end, sufficient resources were allocated to assist the Justice Department professionally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed and rather detailed reply, which I will read. I have never claimed that nothing has happened, but the Court of Auditors has already pointed out these shortcomings several times. I am aware of the complexity of the Justice Department, which, as you rightly say, cannot be compared with other departments. It is also true that the whole justice chain is involved. I think it is very important that policy should give due consideration to the clear recommendations of the Court of Auditors, especially in view of the importance of the quality of the annual accounts, but in particular in view of the opinion of the Court of Auditors on the certification of the accounts of the federal state. I will certainly continue to follow up on this dossier. Madam President, I have tabled a motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u4	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Marijke Dillen and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - whereas the Law of 22 May 2003 on the organisation of the budget and the accounting of the Federal State entered into force on 1 January 2012 for the FPS Justice; - having regard to the fact that the Court of Auditors has since found that the FPS Justice is well behind in the introduction of the new public accounting system and that there are shortcomings in accounting management; - whereas the 177th Book of Part Ill of the Court of Auditors on the General Account 2019 of the General Government of the Federal State also raises this issue again and makes new and additional recommendations; - whereas, according to the Court of Auditors, the FPS Justice has made progress and made improvements, especially since 2019, thanks to the establishment of the Accounting Cell within the Budget and Management Control (B&B) department, which is the priority to help the FPS Justice to take the necessary measures to comply as best as possible with the requirements of the Law of 22 May 2003; - whereas the Court of Auditors continues to establish that the actions necessary to ensure the fidelity of the operations of the FPS Justice in the general administration's accounts cannot be completed in the short term; - whereas this may have a negative impact on the Court's judgment in the context of the certification of the Federal State's financial statements; asks the government implement the various recommendations of the Court of Auditors on the shortcomings of the FPS Justice in the implementation of the Law of 22 May 2003 to the FPS Justice in general and the recommendations made in the 177th Book Part Ill of the Court of Auditors on the General Account 2019 of the General Government of the Federal State on the implementation of the Law of 22 May 2003 to the FPS Justice in particular." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l'interpellation de Mme Marijke Dillen and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - Whereas the Act of 22 May 2003 on the organization of the budget and accounts of the Federal State entered into force on 1 January 2012 for the FPS Justice; - Whereas the Court of Auditors has since found that the FPS Justice is lagging significantly behind in the implementation of the new public accounting system and that accounting management is failing; - Whereas this problem is once again addressed in the 177th Cahier Part III of the Court of Auditors concerning the 2019 General Account of the General Administration of the Federal State and that new and additional recommendations are made therein; - Whereas, according to the Court of Auditors, the SPF Justice has made progress and improvements, in particular since 2019, thanks to the creation of the Accounting Unit within the Budget and Control of Management (B&C) service, which has as a priority to assist the SPF Justice in taking the necessary measures to best meet the requirements of the Law of 22 May 2003; - Whereas the Court of Auditors continues to find that the actions necessary to ensure the faithfulness of the operations of the Justice FPS in the accounts of the general administration cannot be carried out quickly; Whereas these factors may have a negative impact on the opinion which the Court of Auditors will formulate in the context of the certification of the annual accounts of the Federal State; asks the government to implement the various recommendations of the Court of Auditors on the dysfunctions of the FPS Justice in the context of the implementation of the law of 22 May 2003 to the FPS Justice in general and the recommendations made in the 177th Cahier Part III of the Court of Auditors concerning the general account 2019 of the general administration of the Federal State concerning the implementation of the law of 22 May 2003 to the FPS Justice in particular." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u5	By law of 5 May 2019, Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was replaced and the una was amended by procedure. This new procedure entered into force on 1 January 2020. In addition, this amendment has repealed the right of initiative of the King's Attorney. We are now a year further, which invites us to evaluate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u6	Madam President, Mr Segers, discussions on the una-by-procedure between the FPS Finance and the FPS Justice were already held at the beginning of March 2020 at the initiative of the Minister of Finance's then policy cell. During that consultation, the newly introduced provisions of the Una-via Act were discussed with a view to listing any problems encountered in practice. Some improvements have already been made, and I will return to them later. How many files were the subject of the consultation and is there an evolution in comparison with previous years? Now, in 2020, 218 files, 188 files in 2019, 292 files in 2018 and 267 files in 2017. As a minister, am I prepared to evaluate? The law will be further evaluated, implying consultation of the actors in the field and, inter alia, a request for evaluation of the College of Attorneys General. Following the analyses during the previous legislature and the evaluation by the actors in the field that will be requested, I will, together with my colleague, the Minister of Finance, consider whether a legislative initiative is being taken to make any adjustments or clarifications to the law of 5 May 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for your commitment. It is indeed the intention of the una-by-law that the most appropriate route should be followed. We therefore believe that this should be reviewed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u8	Mr. Secretary, the Kempen is being flooded by drug labs. Unfortunately, it's getting worse. In the past, cannabis plantations have occasionally surfaced, but the Kempen is increasingly becoming the epicentre of synthetic drug production. First there were the little labs, who used simple cleaning products to make drugs like GHB. From there it was a small step towards the heavy stuff like ketamine and amphetamines. Meanwhile, research by journalists from Le Soir and Knack shows that the Kempen is becoming the worldwide production site of crystal meth. In illegal drug labs in the Kempen, Mexican cartels put their experienced lab workers to work, which is detrimental to the health of users but also to society. At the source of drug production, prices are low and access to drugs is easy, leading to a huge cost to health care. The cost to our society is also high. Organised crime is nestling in our villages. We are also increasingly confronted with drug waste and discharges into our natural environment. Unfortunately, I also notice the consequences in my municipality. Drug trafficking creates a parallel life for young people, in which they can make a lot of money quickly instead of taking opportunities to move forward. Minister, your policy paper focused a great deal on the drugs problem, particularly around the Stream Plan, which is the most visible fight against organised crime and cocaine in the port of Antwerp. Less attention was paid to the fight against drugs in the Limburg and Antwerp Kempen. Your predecessor, Minister Koen Geens, announced almost two years ago a genuine Kempen-Maas plan for a coordinated approach across provincial and national borders. Unfortunately, it was only an announcement from your predecessor. Of course, there is no silver bullet to deal with the problem. The approach to drugs in our society requires a comprehensive package of measures. Is active work being done on tracking down drug labs? How will you deal with the problem of drugs in the Kempen? What cooperation should be established for you between the parquets in the Limburgse and Antwerpse Kempen? Finally, what initiatives can be developed to intensify cooperation with the Netherlands in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u9	Mrs Verhaert, in the Limburgse Kempen and by extension the whole province of Limburg, an exponential increase in the number of drug labs and dumping is observed. In 2018, 3 labs were found in Limburg, in 2019 and 2020 there were 14. More than 60% of the labs in Belgium are located in the judicial district of Limburg. In recent years, methamphetamine has been found at five production sites, a particularly worrying trend. The exponential growth is less pronounced in the Antwerp Kempen, which does not mean that the situation is not worrying. During the period between 27 January 2019 and 8 January this year, studies were conducted on the exploitation of 7 synthetic drug labs, 18 dumping of chemical waste, 2 transports of synthetic drugs and precursors and 1 storage of synthetic drugs. I visited the Limburg parquets some time ago, and we specifically discussed this. For the parquet of Antwerp as well as for the parquet general, tracking and prosecuting the trade are priorities. It is about getting a good information position in order to conduct investigations, using special police techniques if necessary, and then mapping the network in order to bring perpetrators to justice. These studies are labour intensive and require a lot of capacity. These include trace research, DNA research, telephony research and analysis of the substances found. The production of synthetic drugs is in the hands of criminal organisations consisting of different links with a strong division of labour, such as the supply of chemicals and raw materials, the manufacture and supply of hardware, the provision of a location, the cooks, the disposal of waste and the market. It is always intended to expose the entire organisation, but in terms of detective management and investigative capacity, it is not always obvious to push through to the upper structure of these organisations. As regards your second question, in the judicial district of Limburg, where there are by far the most labs and dumping in Belgium, a public prosecutor's directive on the treatment of labs and dumping has been drawn up. The aim of this Directive is to ensure a uniform common and comprehensive approach to labs and dumping. This directive set out a pragmatic chain-based approach to tackling drug labs and dumping. The Directive was developed in a steering group composed of representatives of the local police zones, the federal police, the public prosecutor and various external partners. The Clan Lab Response Unit and civil protection have made an important contribution to the implementation of the Directive. The Directive sets out a practical framework for trade and reflection with a clear division of labour between police forces, experts and external partners. At the parquet of Limburg there is also a strong commitment to consciousness. After a drug lab is discovered, the neighborhood often reacts shocked and enters information that the neighborhood had for some time noticed suspicious cases, such as a suspicious chemical scent. That's why an anonymous Drugs hotline has been set up. A targeted campaign was also launched to raise citizens' awareness and to ensure that they recognise and report the signals that point to a drug lab. For example, posters were distributed across the Limburg municipalities and an information evening was organised for citizens. It is intended to repeat these initiatives, but the corona virus has obviously not been able to do so. Efforts are also being made to make other public authorities, such as the OVAM, the BFSA, the VLM, Fluvius, the VMM and the municipalities aware of this problem. It is also researched whether drug labs can be detected through the application of innovative techniques, such as the use of a drone with developed equipment that can detect the gases generated by the production. In view of this problem, drones can be deployed in the judicial context and under the control of a magistrate. That is quite different from the use of drones to control people at home or in their gardens in the context of corona enforcement. Also at the Antwerp parquet, initiatives have been taken to focus even more on imaging, information gathering and a project-based approach to the phenomenon. Work is also being carried out on a project-based disruption of the logistical distribution of synthetic drugs through postal packages. Strengthening the Turnhout site of the federal judicial police with a view to an even more efficient approach to crime is in full preparation. The dismantling of all labs and dumping in Belgium is carried out by one department of the federal judicial police, the Clan Lab Response Unit. This highly specialized service is ideally able to link between different production sites using the hardware, barrels and writings found. Information management goes beyond police imaging, of course. An integrated information system extends to various public authorities. In the Netherlands, for example, information is exchanged via the system iCOV, Infobox Criminal and Unexplained Power. This is a collaboration between the national police, the tax authorities, customs and the Financial Intelligence Unit, in other words the investigation director and the prosecutor in the Netherlands. A legislative initiative has yet to be taken in Belgium. So you have heard me correctly, my dear colleague. We must make a major effort to combat this problem as far as possible, also because the potential side effects, including the risks to public health in the event of dumping, can be considerable. We need to increase the chance of getting caught and the chance of punishing such criminal gangs. This can be done through a good information position and through the necessary technical and technological tools to be able to obtain evidence in a modern way. A chance of punishment is not only a matter of imprisonment, but also of taking away the criminal assets. The criminals need to be hit where it hurts them, in their wallet. I can tell you that in the broad context of the Streamplan, the Streamplan XXL, funds are already being made available for the personal reinforcement of the Antwerp and Limburg Justice and for the material reinforcement of the FGP Antwerp. At the end of last year, a large-scale recruitment campaign was also launched for the FGPs, including those of Antwerp and Limburg. For the federal judicial police, budgetary space was created to recruit 450 extra people. In strengthening the public prosecutors, I will focus, among other things, on strengthening the profit-oriented approach to crime. Then I come to the questions about international cooperation. Imaging and analysis of the phenomenon shows that there is a great interlinkage between Dutch criminal organisations and the Belgian criminals involved. These international cooperation links are a problem on both sides of the border. There are numerous partnerships and structures. In 2019, the DJSOC took the initiative to set up a network with the Netherlands to deal with the production of synthetic drugs. Dutch Limburg, East Brabant, Zeeland, West Brabant, the National Unity and the FGP Antwerp, Limburg, Liège and the CRU are involved in the police consultation. The FGP Limburg has set up a collaboration with the police services of the Netherlands with a view to cross-border imaging. The parquet of Antwerp has registered in the FEDLAND consultation with the Dutch homologist, chaired by the federal prosecutor. The aim is to share information on organised crime. In my view, this cooperation could be even better by starting with a common image. I have already spoken about this with my Dutch colleague, former colleague, Grapperhaus. A further investment in existing consultation structures and initiatives should lead to the detection of high value targets, which are active in this form of crime, which can and should lead to the launch of common files. Finally, on 4 February, the Attorney General of Antwerp, Mr Vandenbruwaene, will consult with the other Attorney General of our country and with the Dutch College of Attorneys General on inter alia the mutual cooperation in drug files and the comprehensive approach to this type of crime. You see and hear it, on all the echelons, the actors involved consider the approach to synthetic labs and the associated crime as an absolute priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u10	Thank you, that was a very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer, with a list of the actions that are being taken in addressing the issues raised, which have a huge impact on our society. That reassures me a little, and I am already hopeful. At both local and federal level, I keep following this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament 55012864C and 55012865C by Mrs Jadin are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u13	Minister, the question was raised last week and I listened to your reply, but the issue of professional secrecy was not really addressed at the time. I look forward to your answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u14	Mr Bury, professionals who are aware of a situation relating to genital mutilation are indeed covered by professional secrecy. However, Article 458a of the Criminal Code states very clearly that any person who, through his profession of female genital mutilation, is able to inform the king's prosecutor. Article 458b of the same Code also provides for an exception to professional secrecy when the professional communicates the information in the context of a consultation. The professional facing a situation of female genital mutilation therefore has a legal framework to speak. In addition, the associations specialised in the fight against the phenomenon, through the joint strategy have compiled a toolkit in consultation with Justice. Among the tools offered in the kit, we find the so-called decision tree. This tree reflects the various possible actions from which professionals can choose and also identifies the specific channels to which girls and women can be referred in order to provide them with the necessary help and adequate protection. Faced with a risk or suspicion of female genital mutilation, any person concerned may use the procedural diagram, including a referral to the parquet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u15	Minister, we all know that legal framework. You emphasize the steps that can be taken, but my question was whether there should be no thought about a framework that would oblige the notification if one could identify such a mutilation and see clearly that it was not an accident. It must therefore not remain a question of being able to do so. We can also extend such a scheme to other situations. Let me quote the example of Vilvoorde's monster, a man who could go on with girls and women for years. Among other things, they were strangled, whipped and burned with cigarette butts. The CLB had seen that and they could have reported it, but they hadn't. My specific question is therefore to work together on a reporting obligation for those cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u16	Madam President, Minister, the rules are changing a bit at the moment, but anyone who has been and returns to a red zone abroad for more than 48 hours must be quarantined and tested twice. On 19 January in the morning, you called on the competent Flemish government to provide for sanctions for returners who are not being tested. I understand that call very well, if it were not for all these sanctions to be provided for in the Flemish quarantine decree. They were already in there. Moreover, there was such an order in Brussels too, and I think it will be no different in Wallonia. That same evening, people are working fast, there have been guidelines for the prosecution policy issued by the College of Attorneys General. As in the case of other breaches of control measures, it states that non-compliance with mandatory testing and quarantine requires an amicable settlement of EUR 250. You then immediately made the communication and made the comparison with traffic fines: if you drive too fast, you get a fine. Communication throughout this crisis is crucial, but it is the right one. You're much simpler than it really is. You're acting as if the breach was committed immediately. That's very easy. You made the comparison with traffic fines, and you felt that this is also about an infringement that we can immediately identify and fine immediately. I regret that, because that gives people very confusing communication. Moreover, a friendly settlement is not a fine. More, which was not yet punishable in the morning and in which you called for it to be punishable, it turned out to be in the evening. Mr President, were you not aware that there was already an appropriate regulation, with sanctions, at the level of the Länder? It was already criminalized. Meanwhile, there's a protocol and data were provided to the mayors to have it checked out, though as far as the quarantine is concerned. Of course, testing is something else. Those who are not tested must be fined. Anyone who does not remain in quarantine must be fined. How will this be determined in concrete terms, especially with regard to testing? Is that supposed to be red-handed? Besides, will Sciensano pass on the names of the people who are not automatically tested? To who? To the police or to the parquet? Is the current rules adequate for this? How are the files delivered to the courthouse? I am fully in favour of an arrangement being maintained. That is what we are trying to do in practice and around the quarantine. It is easy to say, however, that it is fined. It's said faster than done. How do you see all this happening in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u17	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, thank you for your questions. The applicable regulations are known to me. It is, I think, the Flemish Prime Minister who had the same morning recorded in Het Nieuwsblad that he was fond of my proposal, namely to punish those who break the rules. As you have correctly heard, the parquet is therefore also willing to pay. On the same day, that was clarified in letter COL 6/2020. There is also good cooperation and rapid switching. How the assessment will be carried out in practice largely depends on how the data from the centre that carries out the contact search end up with the police and/or the public prosecutor. The circular COL 6/2020 describes how things work and refers to the decrees. This concerns the Flemish, Brussels and Walloon Decrees, which are also referred to. From the contact search centers, lists are transferred to the mayor. This will allow municipal officials and local police to work. A finding in the act of non-application of the imposed quarantine will be difficult. You know that even in the case of quarantine, exceptions are possible. However, these are nuances that should rather be addressed in the Flemish Parliament, where the regulations are laid down, and not with us. Together with Minister for the Interior Verlinden and the Länder, we are now looking at how we can streamline this procedure and make it even easier. This work is being carried out in full, including as a result of the Consultation Committee last Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, in which you yourself state that it is not so easy to impose fines on infringements. The control tower does indeed provide the data to the local authorities or the mayor. They receive lists of imposed quarantines, but they are general lists. It does not specify whether it is a traveler, a person who has post-tested or someone with high-risk contact. They are all treated differently. High risk contacts and positive tests are covered by the contact detection and quarantine data go through another channel and require a separate check. So it's not simple. As you say about catching in the act: the store is still allowed to go and there are still some necessary things to be done. I note that it is easy to communicate in advance that there will be a quick fine and I am glad that the Attorney General is also working with that institution to make it all possible. So the police and the parquets have something in their hands after that. In the end, it is the local government that has to make sure that it also happens effectively. That's my experience today. I would like to ask that communication be clear and correct and that it should not appear obvious, because it is not today. I hear there is still work to be done and I hope that this will become clear soon. This will make it much easier not only for local authorities but also for the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u19	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55012915C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u20	Minister, we have already talked about detention homes in the context of the policy paper. Two legislative hours ago, I drew up a resolution with my colleague Sarah Smeyers to implement it. So I'm sure I'm very fond of the principle itself. It is good to work in this small-scale way, in order to work intensively with specific target groups of prisoners so that they can return to society more prepared. You have now written to the municipalities, and I have also received one of these letters from you, for which I would like to thank you for asking whether buildings are eligible for such a detention centre on the territory of the municipality. It's a good idea. It's a good system. It is also a good thing that you ask this question, but we do, of course, need support for it, both from local authorities and from the population. That is why it is also important to have a look at the concrete plans. That was lacking in your writing, hence my questions. What exactly are you planning? Do you mean a pilot project, some pilot projects or do you want to roll out as many detention homes as possible? If so, how much, because it is a new concept? Within what time limit do you want to do that if you are offered buildings or find something? In your letter you also refer to the planned entry into force of the external legal status law on 1 April and the need for 600 additional detention places. That is in the short term, because 1 April is getting closer. What budget do you provide for this? That did not become clear in your provisional budget, Minister. We will not know until March. For the establishment of the transition houses, a legal basis was provided for in the Law of 11 July 2018. Does the establishment of detention homes also require a legal basis? If so, when can we expect it? For the project to succeed in itself, the local government must be a supporter. How can we promote the support needed for a detention house in a municipality?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u21	The government agreement provides for the further development of small-scale detention projects for certain groups of detainees, e.g. Parents with children, inmates short of release, young offenders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u22	Madam President, Mrs De Wit and Mr Segers, these are very interesting and important questions. As you know, the coalition agreement states that small-scale detention homes, as in Scandinavia, may be the way to achieve less recidivism and better punishment. I'm glad you received the letters. We have deliberately written to the governors of the country asking for their participation. I am therefore pleasantly surprised that there is a lot of response from the local authorities. It is not a pilot project, Mrs De Wit, but rather the implementation of what is contained in the government agreement, in particular the setting up of small-scale detention projects. In the policy statement, we also emphasised the establishment of detention homes. I believe that they can provide an additional response to the problem of overpopulation and, above all, to promote meaningful detention. It is clear that the concept has not yet been finalized, but I want to start quickly with these houses of preservation. After all, I intend to set up two this year. The intended population capacity is 40 to 70 prisoners. The buildings will be rented in the medium term. The rents will take into account the necessary installation and renovation costs. Since these two factors, namely the size of the buildings and the rent, are not yet known, it is not yet possible to draw up an accurate budget. For a first budgetary assessment, we base ourselves on the transition houses. You asked about the legal basis. The detention homes will be considered prisons. Federal staff of the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions (EPI) will be responsible for day-to-day management, supervision and administrative management. It is therefore not necessary to amend the law. A ministerial decision will suffice to declare that they can be considered prisons. As far as acceptance is concerned, letters sent to the governors have been responded enthusiastically with correspondence, telephone questions and video meetings. The time has come for such a meaningful initiative, as your question shows. Of course, we will work on that with willing governments. That will provide the necessary support. I therefore hope to be able to make rapid progress with regard to concrete projects, which will make it possible to establish a meaningful and reintegration-oriented detention system. I come to your questions, Mr Segers. I have answered your first, second and third questions. What will happen to the transition homes in particular, because the evaluation would be completed by the end of 2020? The evaluation is in full swing. The intention is to present them to the government in the short term and to propose the extension of the transition homes. The modalities for this will be discussed within the government. I have asked for an extra budget for this year and the following years for the expansion of the transition houses. You also had a question about the walkways, as proposed by the non-profit association De Huizen, I am very familiar with. The detention homes that we have in mind are aimed at different target groups. Young people from 18 to 25 years of age may also be among them. I come to your fourth question: "The coalition agreement also talks about parents with children. What do you provide for them?" The desire to address parents with children is linked to the desire to reduce recurrentity. After all, we know that maintaining family ties is an asset for effective reintegration. Having said that, it is still too early to determine exactly which groups will be taken into account for the detention homes, as this will depend on several factors, such as the nature of the buildings chosen and their geographical location, but it will of course be the intention to focus on specific groups of detainees, which we will provide with an appropriate framework and supervision, with a view to reducing recidivism. I will soon start drawing up the evaluation of the master plan, as described in the coalition agreement. Then you will find out more about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It's good to know you want to roll out two and that it'll be 40 to 70 prisoners. This is crucial in order to know which building is needed and can be made available. That's quite a lot of people already. I also understand why, but I hope that it will still be possible to work with a focus. There's more than I expected. This seems to be more than planned in the discussions we have had with the De Huizen association. I note that there is no need for a legal basis, but that this is considered a prison. There is a big difference between 40 or 70, which is almost double. I'm curious. This number should already be thought of as an old school building or a boarding school building. It's not so obvious to find a building like this. We are certainly following this, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. Individual detention plans with a strengthening of psychosocial services and the further development of small-scale detention projects are of great importance to me and my party. I am very glad that this is also an important priority for you. I wish you every success in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u25	Mr Minister, the crisis of coronavirus requires that health measures be respected and, in this context, control procedures are inevitable. However, I would like to express my concern at the risk of questioning certain fundamental rights created by the recent circular of the College of Prosecutors General, specifically on the issue of home visits. As you know, the inviolability of the home is enshrined in article 15 of the Constitution, which provides that no home visit may take place outside the cases provided for by law. Several experts have recently spoken in the press on this subject, denouncing the illegality of the hypothesis of a house visit based on the flagrante delicto, without control by a judge. The offence of night noise, which constitutes a violation, does not preclude the inviolability of the home. According to Ms. Catherine Burton and Ms. Damien Dillenbourg, in their gallery published by avocados.be, "to break into a house under the pretext of night teasing in order, in reality, to find covid offences constitutes a misuse of the law that removes all legality from police intervention". In order to enter a home on the basis of flagrante delicto and a covid offence, police officers must first collect evidence that makes the offence almost certain. If the offence requires investigation as to whether or not it has been committed, the flagrante delicto shall not be encountered. Do you confirm that a complaint or denunciation of nocturnal noise does not justify a house visit without the consent of the inhabitants? Can you explicitly confirm that a home visit is only permitted if there is a certainty that a real lockdown party is under way and that it cannot be carried out in the event of a closed meeting in a small committee? You have the right to order prosecutors to investigate offences. Will an assessment of the legality of home visits be carried out and, if necessary, will it be followed by prosecution in case of violation of legal conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months I have answered various questions on this subject in this committee. On 13 January 2021, our colleague Hugon asked me another almost identical question. You know that I attach great importance to Article 15 of our Constitution, which states that: "The home is inviolable: no home visit can take place only in the cases provided for by law and in the form prescribed by law." It is from this commitment that the points on i were put in the latest adaptation of the directive of the College of Prosecutors General (COL 06/2020). An administrative search, as made possible in exceptional cases by section 27 of the Police Function Act, is now excluded. Without a warrant from the investigating judge, a search is only possible, as provided for by law, if the resident consents or in case of flagrante delicto. However, in the latter case, we have introduced an additional guarantee, namely that there must be prior contact with the prosecutor, because we want to prevent the concept of flagrante delicto from being taken too far in the broader sense. They must be findings rather than suspicions. As for the evaluation you are talking about, the services do it constantly. I can assure you that searches are not decided lightly. At the police level, everyone, including the integrated police and police unions, responded positively to this strengthening and clarification of the circular. So the police were not asking to do things differently. In practice, therefore, the police state is not as bad as some claim in the press. And for those who do not take seriously the principles of our rule of law and article 15 of the Constitution, the strengthened COL is of course binding on prosecutors and the police. At the level of the public prosecutor's office, the prosecutor's office monitors compliance with this circular in real time. If he is contacted for a test of flagrante delicto post factum of course, he ensures that the minutes are followed up. Finally, the final touchstone is the criminal judge if the persons are summoned by the public prosecutor before the police judge, either directly or after failing to pay the settlement amicably.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear you are committed to respecting Article 15 of our Constitution. I stress the question of fundamental rights and the inviolability of the home, especially as we see a country's level of democracy in terms of the measures it takes in times of crisis. It is always at that time that fundamental rights are at greatest risk and that we must be the most vigilant. Your answer reflects your will to respect the law, hoping that it will be translated into reality without any deviation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u28	Madam President, Minister, in December I questioned you about the Federal Ombudsman's investigation into the abuse of service cars and tank cards in prison. You replied that you had received the final report on 16 November and that there would have been an infringement of integrity in a member of staff. The opportunity of initiating a disciplinary investigation was then investigated. You also said that the report made recommendations on the organisation, management and supervision of the 'large prison garage'. I have the following questions for you. Has it finally been decided to initiate a disciplinary procedure? What recommendations did the Ombudsman make and have they now been transposed into practice? If not, when is it planned to do so? Is it being checked whether the abuse has stopped permanently or whether it may have resumed or is continuing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u29	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, you did ask questions about this in December. It was decided to initiate a disciplinary procedure. Pending the completion of the procedure, no service vehicle shall be available to the staff member concerned. The Federal Ombudsman expects a report on the follow-up to the recommendations by 30 April this year. The Ombudsman made three recommendations. Firstly, the establishment of an internal regulation for the use of the service vehicles of the Directorate-General for EPI by the central garage and the communication of this regulation to the staff concerned. This will be done by the date set by the Federal Ombudsman. Secondly, an evaluation and improvement of the current management of the central garage, so that the central garage is given a clear place in the organization chart of the Directorate-General EPI, the employees know their place within the organisation chart and there is effective management of the operational activities. DG EPI chose to house the central garage at the Brussels prison. The reason for this choice is in line with the recommendations of the federal Ombudsman. Thirdly, the Ombudsman asks to verify whether the applications for bicycle allowances for the entire journey of residence by the staff of the central garage meet the conditions. This is still to be done. Were there any checks on whether the abuse has finally stopped? I can confirm that it was indeed investigated and that the abuse has stopped. Pending an internal regulation, a control system was introduced, which provides an overview of the journeys carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will continue to follow up with you when these recommendations become reality or not and how the control system works.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u31	Minister, in January 2020 a man was beaten to death by a man with a psychiatric past. That investigation has now been completed by the public prosecutor. The unsub confessed to the facts. Now the man's internment is requested. It's not about anyone with prior convictions, but it's about a psychiatric patient who was thought to be able to leave the psychiatric center at the time of the facts. That assessment was made, but it ended badly. Such things can happen, I do not intend to make accusations. However, it is my intention to consider how we can avoid such matters in the future. In this case, it was a person with psychiatric problems, but a similar assessment must be made with convicts when they have to return to society. My question is, for psychiatric patients as well as for those who are released after a conviction and imprisonment, how screening can be done properly. I realize this isn't easy. In the coalition agreement, you have stated that there must be a risk assessment. That's what you announced. I think it is right to introduce a risk assessment. That instrument will have to assist in the assessment of the risks posed by the release of certain persons. Minister, what timetable did you set out to effectively implement the risk assessment? How do you see its practical implementation, since it is a complex thing? Is the risk assessment to be integrated at every stage of criminal proceedings, from pre-trial detention to final execution? Are you considering imposing the risk assessment in certain cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u32	Colleague, you mention the case of a psychiatric patient, who was judged to be able to leave the psychiatric center. In this case, it is not a criminal offence, it is a consideration or assessment made by a psychiatrist. Such assessments are always made on the basis of risk assessment. They already exist for interned people. Since the internment is not a punishment but primarily a security measure, the release or release on trial is preceded by a risk assessment. Also for extremists and terrorists, persons on the OCAD's so-called terrorist list, a risk assessment is used to assess the treatment and guidance they may need. In my policy statement, I also introduced the concept of risk assessment for a number of other cases, including in the section on "more attention to victims of sexual violence'. As announced in the policy paper, sexual violence must have a chain approach. We have launched a project on sexual and intra-family violence that will allow a risk assessment. The first important point is the digitalisation of the file. By keeping all the documents in a central place and providing access to different actors, we can ensure that a decision is made on the basis of all the information, which makes it possible to better assess the risk to society. Working groups were launched with all relevant actors of Justice in order to achieve such a risk assessment in the short term for sexual and intra-family violence. We hope to be able to launch targeted pilot projects by the summer. Over time, this can be extended to other crimes. Finally, there is also the risk assessment referred to in the COL 15/2020. However, this applies only to intra-family violence, so that such cases can be detected more quickly. Your second question was about the practical implementation of the risk assessment. It is important to know that the risk assessment can be at two levels within the Justice Department, at the level of the offender or at the level of the criminal proceedings. At the level of the offender, an assessment will have to be made of the risk of recidivism at any time in the chain, from the arrest of the conviction to the end of the sentence. Follow-up and guidance, including risk assessment, are a joint project with the Länder. It is the psychosocial services and the judicial assistants who follow and guide the offender. The latter is a state power. Before any changes can be made at federal level, the Länder should be asked to apply this risk assessment in practice. I refer to Mr Demir's recent risk assessment plans. Only in this way will we achieve effective and workable legislation. Moreover, the 1998 and 1999 cooperation agreements must be reviewed during this legislature. The first contacts have already been established for this purpose. There is also a risk assessment at the level of the criminal trial. For example, there is a need to give urgency to dossiers which show that the perpetrator is a major threat to society. These must be treated as a matter of priority both at first instance and on appeal. I am not in itself opposed to the idea of your last question, but it would be nice if, thanks to the highly evolving technology, we could apply this risk assessment in every file, regardless of the nature of the crime. In any case, your question is an interesting question, which I will put to the working group I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u33	Minister, it will be and will remain an interesting and important instrument. I know that you also included the framework for victims of sexual violence in your policy paper, but that was where the focus was very strong, and that is also important for victims. At that time, I suggested that this should be applied to the perpetrators as well, because of course they represent the greatest risk. You recently announced that you would take some of our recommendations. I hope this will be there. If this risk assessment is to be carried out, then there must indeed be guidance and follow-up in cooperation with the Länder. This is also a yard for you, especially when a risk is estimated: is there a need for something extra, such as a posting? You said you'd include that in the story on the Justice Department that you're writing. I'll follow it and look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u34	Minister, it is already at the end of January and 1 April is getting closer. It is stipulated that the law on the external legal status of detainees will enter into force in full at that time. This means that all penalties, including the short ones, must be implemented from then on. In an answer to another question, you said a few weeks ago that there was an evaluation on whether 1 April could still be reached. What exactly does this evaluation mean? Have any conclusions been drawn? Will you make it or don't you know it, and when will the knot be cut? If it is postponed, do you have any idea for how long? Can you guarantee this will be the last time? You want to realize two detention homes this year. Your letter also said that 600 extra seats were needed. However, we are not there yet. What happens to the existing conversion scheme via the conversion letters? That's important. For short detentions, a lot is now being converted by means of conversion letters. If the design is to come into full effect, will the conversion letters expire? Is that conversion scheme going to expire? Is it the intention to buy it immediately or is it provided for in a transitional arrangement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u35	Ms De Wit, the current review concerns the law of 5 May 2019. In fact, the law provides that convicted persons with short sentences that immediately meet the time conditions to apply for electronic supervision of a limited detention may make such an application on their own initiative. Several actors involved in the execution of the sentence pointed out that the legislator had not sufficiently assessed what this future legislative change would entail from the point of view of freedom in the field. First of all, an important gap for the file composition in the application for electronic surveillance of a limited detention from freedom was pointed out. In the case of longer sentences and inmates, the Director shall deliver an opinion after hearing the convicted person and the Director shall compile the file on the basis of which the application is subsequently assessed. The question arises as to who will compile the file for convicted persons who submit a request from freedom. Those convicted have not been assigned to a particular prison and the prison director is therefore difficult to deliver an opinion. There is therefore no file for this category. A criminal court should therefore rule blindly for them on the application for a penalty execution mode. That problem needs to be corrected. It looks at ways in which the file can be compiled for this group of convicted persons who apply for freedom. However, there are other questions. What is the status of sentenced persons to a custodial sentence that is not linked to a particular prison? Who looks at and calculates the time conditions in the event of multiple penalties being implemented or the deduction of the periods of pre-trial detention? The question also arises as to who informs the convicted person of his rights if he or she does not have a lawyer. In order to answer all these questions, the various professions have now sat together and drawn up their chalk lines to create a workable procedure for practice. Those questions and possible solutions are now being evaluated. The Act of 31 July 2020 postponed the entry into force of this Act until 1 April. That delay was specifically motivated by the consequences of the pandemic. Preparations, such as recruitment, were interrupted. It was not appropriate to allow the entry into force of the law to coincide with the pandemic, which had a significant impact on normal entry and exit into prisons. I can assure you that Corona was not a cheap excuse to postpone the entry into force of the law. We will soon assess whether we will continue with the date of 1 April. Here too, the evolution of the sanitary crisis will be closely monitored. Then I come to the problem of the conversion scheme. Article 25 of the Law of 5 May 2019 already contains a transitional provision. The law will apply only to convicted persons who have only one or more sentences not exceeding three years in effect, which have become res judicata from the date of entry into force of the law. In the case of convicted persons in execution who have entered into force on a res judicata before the entry into force of the law, the Ministerial circulars on provisional release and electronic surveillance shall continue to apply. Both systems will therefore continue to exist alongside the decision taken by the criminal court and decisions taken by the prison director, with their own time conditions and procedures. However, there are two exceptions. If the sentenced person so requests in writing, the new law must be applied to him or her. If the sentenced person is the subject of a posting of the criminal enforcement court, the law shall also apply immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u36	Thank you for your answers. If I understand correctly, it is still necessary to examine and decide whether or not the law can enter into force. Today is January 27, 2021. April's getting closer. I wait and look forward to the final decision. Don't make it a April joke. We'll follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u37	Madam President, Minister, on 4 December last you gave a negative opinion to the Brussels-Capital Region on the recognition of the management of the Great Mosque of Brussels by the Belgian Muslim Executive (EMB). Since then, the vice-president of the EMB, accused of interference and espionage for the benefit of Morocco, has resigned from his office. A new president has been appointed. The problems of interference within the EMB concern not only Morocco but also Turkey. However, if these two countries occupy an important place in the institutions representative of the Muslims of Belgium, it is not only because they are the two countries of origin from which the majority of the Muslims of our country came, it is also the result of certain political choices made in the past. Indeed, in 2012, the office of the then Minister of Justice indicated that it was seeking the stability of the Executive by building on the two major Islamic communities in our country, the Moroccan and Turkish communities. Minister, today, what is your assessment of the co-management strategy of the EMB by the Moroccan and Turkish communities? What strategy do you intend to adopt in order to achieve the objective of institutionalising an open, plural and free from foreign interference in Belgian Islam? Is consultation with the Brussels-Capital Region and representatives of the Muslim cult still on the agenda regarding the future of the management of the Great Mosque in Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u38	Madam President, Minister of Justice, I would have liked to join the questions on the evaluation report. You delivered that to the Chamber, and I read it. It was very interesting. The first part is a list of the realizations. Especially the last part is interesting. That gets the most media attention today, also in De Standaard. It is about extremism within the Muslim executive, possible espionage and very close ties with the Moroccan government, but also about a very conservative movement within the Muslim executive which actually makes it virtually impossible to achieve some kind of Western Islam, as far as possible. You are bothered by this, as you have said on several occasions. Last week, you told me that the conclusions of the evaluation report are in line with what you had thought and whatever you were going through. It is about the lack of gender equality, the linguistic imbalance and the way in which a number of elements within that organisation really do not want modernisation. I understand from the article in La Libre that you apparently intervened to ask for a new presidency. That's not entirely clear to me. Can you clear that up? What the hell just happened in there? It does not seem obvious to me that you would intervene yourself. What are your plans for this organisation in the coming years on the basis of the evaluation report? What about that story that the President and a number of others would be too close to the Moroccan government? Is that espionage? So what is the real threat? I assume the Moroccans are listening well. What was the problem? Which steps will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I will start with Mrs Thibaut's questions. Currently, the organs of the Belgian Muslim Executive (EMB) are made up of three Community entities. All member mosques are grouped into entities A, B and C. Entity A represents the largest Islamic community in Belgium, namely the Moroccan community. Entity B is the second largest Islamic community in the country – the Turkish community – and entity C represents minority Muslim communities in Belgium. This structure is defined in the Rules of Procedure of the EMB. As I indicated in my responses of January 4 and 19, I will discuss the proposals for renewal of the EMB in the coming weeks. On the basis of this discussion, it may be decided to make some appropriate changes to the structure of the EMB. As you probably know, the Great Mosque of Brussels is currently managed by the EMB and its ASBLs. The future of the Great Mosque will therefore be part of the discussions. Consultations with the Brussels-Capital Region will of course take place in due course. Mr Francken, I have not only read your questions but also your tweet of 26 January. In it you say: "There will be a new chairman of the Muslim executive because the previous one is some sort of Moroccan spy (?) was and this was after active intervention of Justice Minister Van Quickenborne through his cabinet chief, former OCAD boss Van Tigchelt." You're not actually asking a question, you're already telling me what it is. I find that a little frightening. Firstly, you say that I intervened in the appointment of that person, secondly, you say that I intervened in the appointment of a new President, and thirdly, you question the word "spy." So you're obviously questioning the advice of the State's security in that tweet. I think you've made a mistake three times with those statements. Firstly, you know that my cabinet and I follow the regulatory procedures in this regard. That's how a minister and a cabinet are supposed to work. Secondly, this is an application for recognition for which we received a negative opinion from the security services, including the security of the State, because of problems of interference and espionage. What I'm saying here isn't new, it's been known for a long time. It's a spy tout court, without question. Thirdly, it was not about the President of the Muslim Executive, the negative opinion concerned a Vice-President. The way in which the Chairman and Vice-Presidents of the Executive are elected is laid down in his internal rules of procedure. In the meantime, my cabinet of the President of the Muslim Executive has learned that the previous French-speaking Vice-President has effectively resigned from all his duties and that his office within the Executive is taken up by Mr Noureddine Ismaili. As you have said, I did not intervene in this matter as you have said. As agreed, the EMB's evaluation report was delivered to the Chamber on 22 January. This morning, you sent a message that this would not have happened, and you withdrew it. However, we have delivered that to the Chamber. I hope you've been able to see that in the meantime. The evaluation report lists achievements. In the end, this becomes critical. The criticism is in line with what I have said before in recent months. My starting points are: no foreign interference, no extremism, but representativeness. This means representativeness in the religious ties, representativeness in the languages of our country, these are, first of all, the Dutch and French languages and representativeness of men and women. Transparency and professionalism are also included. You can read the report yourself, but I do not want to deny you a number of quotes from the report. Mrs Thibaut, I quote them in French because of course I am speaking to you, but also because the report was published only in French. I regret the fact that it was not published in Dutch. We're still in a country where we're trying to speak both languages. The four quotations are as follows: "Six years after the establishment of the Executive from the local Islamic Communities, although many advances have been made despite the difficulties encountered, it must be noted that the system has not met expectations, i.e. the ABC system (?). Indeed, many flaws appeared very quickly." "It appeared that several delegates came from extremist movements and networks." "The 2014 renewal process also highlighted the lack of confidence, importance and esteem given to the female figure, since only a tiny minority of mosques have appointed a female representative to sit on the General Council of Muslims of Belgium. Attention should also be paid to the linguistic question (French, Dutch, German) and to the presence of women." "The future leaders of the Executive must come from the Muslim intelligentsia, hold a higher education diploma at least or demonstrate a level of equivalence through experience and work within the academic or community world." These quotations are clear and confirm what I said a few weeks ago. I was confronted with the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium, which is very critical of itself. We're gonna have to take care of this. This is a problem that has been dragging on for a long time. It doesn't date from yesterday. It's never solved, and I'm really thinking about solving it, along with the Executive. Of course, I must, and I will, respect religious freedom. That's obvious. It is not for me to decide who should be President or Vice-President, whether it is at the Catholic Church or at the Islamic or Orthodox service. That's not my job. It is my duty, however, to ensure that every service of worship respects the freedoms and essential values of our country. That is why I will not abandon this dossier either, but will ensure that there is a solution for the Executive. I am aware of the difficulties, ladies and gentlemen. Many predecessors have tried to solve this. According to the Executive's report, that didn't work. I will take up this difficult work, and I am working very hard on it, in the hope of having a good Executive representative of the Muslims in our country, of whom I am convinced that the vast majority can absolutely live together with other ties of faith.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u40	Minister, to be clear, we received an e-mail from your cabinet on the night of 22 on 23 January saying that this report would be delivered in the shortest possible time. It fell into the mailbox with our services on Monday. Maybe it was sent over on the weekends. I have indeed misinformed Mr Francken that it had not yet arrived. That's why I reminded your cabinet yesterday. So it was a mistake of mine, or an inattention. Hence Mr Francken's tweet. Mrs Thibaut has the floor for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answer. The momentum is really interesting, I think. The Secretary of State's opinion is crazy, very severe. The Belgian Muslim Executive is now aware of its weaknesses and the need to reorganise itself. The minister, for his part, is listening and intends to build bridges and play his role in the freedom of everyone. I really encourage you to continue in this direction, because it takes courage to remedy this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u42	Minister, you speak of a tweet. With Twitter one must always be careful. Last week, you barked an N-VA member on Twitter. It is always important to remain worthy and to be careful with Twitter. That goes for me, but also for you. You're also saying my tweet was wrong three times. I dispute that. My tweet was based on an article by La Libre Belgique, which was included. That article was then completely wrong, because what I said, I got out of that article. For once, I wanted to be careful, and that is why I put a question mark behind the word spy, but you say that question mark was completely superfluous. After all, it was and is a spy, you say. That is clear. I wanted to put it mildly, because I wasn't sure. You have the State Security reports, I don't. So it's clear now: the man is a spy. He resigned from all his duties and was replaced by someone who had to resign before, because he would be too modern. However, you feel that he is still not sufficiently modern and you are looking for a new President. You say very clearly that you have not intervened and that you will not do so. That's not up to you either. That is a correct attitude, which I fully support. Now you're working on it. It never worked, but you will now, you say, and you have increased the budget. In the Swedish government, Koen Geens was Minister of Justice and he really wanted to work on it and always gave a sip of money, because that would be fine. Again, I was always critical about that. I have my opinion on that. I think it is very difficult to set up a representative body of Islam in Belgium or any country, given the so many currents, from Sunni to Shiite, from Turks to Moroccans, the people of Sub-Saharan Africa and from Central Asia. This body must also respect the gender relations and the relations between French and Dutch speakers. You're trying to put together a puzzle that's almost insecure. I wish you every success in that. I hope it works, but I doubt it will ever work. Let us pay particular attention to the idea of European Islam as a sort of watered down application of Islam. That is what I think you mean by what many Muslims are experiencing here, and with which I have no problem in itself. We'll see. It is a very interesting debate. I will continue to ask questions about this and we will certainly be able to discuss it. I wish you every success in that, let us be clear. I am critical, but I certainly try to think about how best to organise such an organ, but at the moment I do not see the solution. We need to do something about it, because it is an important population, and we certainly need to pay the necessary attention to it. What I do not understand, however, is that, after all these heavy anti-terror reports of the attacks at Maalbeek Metro Station and Brussels National Airport, there is still no real listening. I regret that and will continue to regret it. There must be a clear signal against Salafism and Islamism. Finally, I thought the report would be delivered to me as well. That's what was originally said. Apparently it went through the committee, but something went wrong. I have no problem with that; so my communication was not entirely correct; I was misinformed. I apologize for that. If such a report is requested in the future, I hope that I will be able to receive it by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u43	Minister, the government agreement provides for favourable access to the request for recognition of Buddhism made by the Belgian Buddhist Union (UBB) in 2006. It's already dated. What is the status of this application for recognition? Have you ever been able to meet the UBB representatives? If not, do you intend to meet them soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u44	Dear colleague, a bill on the Belgian Buddhist Union was submitted to the House of Representatives on 11 September 2019 by colleague Els Van Hoof. You joined this proposal on 25 November 2019 and Mrs Matz on 11 February 2020. So there is a lot of support for this recognition, Mrs. Thibaut. On 8 December, my cabinet met with the President and Secretary-General of the Belgian Buddhist Union to consult on the schedule of recognition. A priori, there are no obstacles to recognition. Therefore, we assured them that recognition would take place during this legislature as provided for in the government's agreement. My firm is studying the technical aspects of the case in collaboration with the Justice FPS. After that, the legislative work can begin. We will, of course, keep the UBB informed of the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u45	Madam President, Minister, this is not about the government agreement. But the question is whether or not this is a mistake. In 2013, the Hindu Forum submitted a request for recognition of Hinduism on the basis of article 181 of the Constitution. This is, in fact, a demand for subsidies, which is why the process is less advanced, knowing that it counts in years. Minister, what is the status of this request for recognition? Are you planning to meet soon with representatives of the Hindu community in Belgium regarding the status of their application for recognition? Do you identify any obstacles to the subsidy requested by the Hindu Forum? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u46	Madam President, dear colleague, on 14 March 2013, the Belgian Hindu Forum submitted a request for recognition of Hinduism in Belgium. On the basis of article 181 of the Constitution, the choice to apply for recognition as a cult falls within the competence of the cult or philosophical movement which makes the application. Recognition of Hinduism is not provided for in the government agreement. I think we talked about it, but I was not there in the discussion of this topic. Finally, we decided with this government – it is a deliberate choice – that during this legislature we will devote all our efforts to the recognition of Buddhism. However, there are, of course, still other issues, such as the issue of the Belgian Muslim Executive and the Great Mosque in Brussels, which has been the subject of a question on your part.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u47	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I hear that a process is under way, on the basis of the law. I do not think this is a political choice, but rather an oversight on our part. Ultimately, the process as set out in the law must continue. I will therefore come back to you on this, because I believe that this request for subsidies is legitimate and is part of the process of recognizing a law that we have all voted for and which we support. I think we need to take a step forward towards this community and prove that our law on the recognition of religions is working.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u48	Madam President, Minister, the year 2020 was a grand cru for cyber criminals. The interest of Limburg published figures of 6 out of 14 Limburg police zones in its edition of 14 December. This showed that more than EUR 5.5 million had already been swindled. Then there's the dark number. That is the number of people who are too ashamed or whose amount is too low and who do not report it. According to calculations at the parquet of Limburg and the police, the amount has to be multiplied four to five times in order to get a realistic picture. These are numbers to swing from and they go over only one province. The police zones indicate that this is way out of their league. There is a need for a national prevention campaign, an increase in the capacity of the federal police to carry out a phenomenon analysis, but also a firm lick-on-piece policy, in particular for the money mules. Cybercrime often happens via international networks, but at least from the moment criminals remotely take over the computer from victims or trick them into transferring money, there is a transfer of money from the victim's account to another account. This account is almost always of a money mule, a small shrimp that makes his or her account available for a small fee. Minister, given the great human suffering and the related family dramas, it seems important to play briefly on the ball. Will you bet on a lick-on-piece prosecution as soon as possible and in particular on the money mules, because they are easily traceable? Can you give some figures today of the number of prosecutions that have been launched in the past year as a result of cybercrime?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u49	Thank you for your questions, Mr Moyaers. Cybercrime prevention is indeed important, but action must also be taken. There is indeed a great need for additional resources to combat cybercrime, both in the police and in the prosecutor's office. That is also what I have provided for in my policy statement. We will invest in central data analysis and in a clear legislative framework that allows the linking of existing databases. The College of Attorneys-General has worked on a national letter on phishing which will focus on improving imagery as well as on combating the criminal superstructure, which often operates from abroad, and on the criminal network of the so-called money mules. Attention, these money mules, money donkeys, are not just small shrimps, but necessary links in the whole, so that we must also use them if we are to avoid impunity. At the same time, we are also talking to the financial sector to install a system so that fraud and phishing transactions can be detected more quickly. Especially in phishing, the money mules will be exposed by this system more quickly. This can ensure that stolen money is blocked and returned to the victims in good time. You're suggesting a lick-on-piece prosecution. I'd like to, but I have to point out that tracking down the perpetrators is often a little more complex than the solution seems to suggest. The perpetrators often use the anonymity of the world wide web and operate from abroad. So it is not always obvious to quickly identify or bring the perpetrators to justice. You also asked a question about the number of prosecutions. Madam President, on that question, I would like to remind you of my appeal, which I made last week in the Committee on Justice, and of the e-mail you sent to Members of Parliament on 20 January, for which I would like to thank you for reminding us of the Rules of Procedure, in particular that questions concerning statistics should be submitted in writing. So, Mr Moyaers, I would suggest that you put your question as a written question. Then I'll be sure to give you an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u50	Minister, I will put that question in writing, which does indeed seem logical, but I would have liked it if I could already get a directional figure. First of all, I would like to thank you for your comprehensive answer to my first question, which was much more important to me. In my view, a lick-on-piece policy is absolutely necessary. Money mules are usually not so much abroad, often it's just about students getting warmed up to make their current account available. A relatively small sum is promised, while the account is used to redirect larger amounts abroad. Because the current account starts, these students are very often identifiable and the penalties are often not tender either. That's why I think a good campaign is appropriate. In my police zone, Limburg Region Capital, a campaign with a clear focus on young people will be launched next year. This campaign will be set up together with the PXL and the theme of the so-called money mules will certainly be addressed, because that is in keeping with the life in which they sit. I believe that there are certainly more than enough data available today, so that local police services can carry out further investigations and carry out a phenomenon analysis. In this connection, I also asked the Prime Minister in the Committee on the Interior. Last year I learned from my police area that the prosecution had come into a situation where the police had to confine themselves to just a few cases to carry out further investigations. The Prime Minister referred me to you for the answer to that question, so I will also put an additional question on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u51	Mr Minister, I refer to the written version of my question and I am very curious about your answer, even if it is short notice, because I based myself on a reportage on the Dutch radio last weekend and an article in De Standaard last Monday. I will be happy to return to that next week if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u52	Madam President, Mr Segers, the federal court will let me know that it will answer the questions asked in concrete terms, but that it will need a little more time to do so, which I understand. Those answers are coming. To which I can answer you now is to your questions in abstracto. Cross-border observations shall be governed by Article 40 of the Schengen Implementing Convention. That is a long article that I will save you, but it means that a cross-border observation between Member States can be made in the case of trafficking in human beings and smuggling, provided that prior legal assistance is requested. In the event of urgency, urgency, as defined in the Convention, an application for legal aid is not necessary, but the State whose border is crossed must be informed thereof without delay. Afterwards, this should be made on a case-by-case basis. In our country, the national raid point (NIP) of DJO/DAO should be contacted at such a high urgency. Cooperation is generally smooth and the procedure and contact points are well known. As for your question about the controlled delivery, the rules are strict and precise. I'll summarize them briefly. The rules are laid down in the 2006 Police Teaching and in the COL on the special detection methods. A delayed intervention in the context of infiltration is called a controlled delivery or delivery. In the context of an observation we speak of a monitored delivery or delivery. What's the difference between an episode and a delivery? The monitored delivery is to allow, under the permanent control of police forces, an illegal transport of goods or persons whose police services are aware of, without the police officers themselves carrying out and delivering the transport or providing assistance, and with the police intervention being postponed at the latest to the final destination in Belgium or abroad. The monitored delivery is to allow an illegal transport of goods under the permanent control of the police forces, which the police services are aware of without the police officers themselves carrying out and delivering the transport or providing assistance without any police intervention. The rules for delivery or delivery are different when it comes to goods, for example a smuggled batch of cocaine, or people, people smuggling. In the case of human trafficking, the rules are stricter in the following sense: controlled or monitored delivery is prohibited. For a controlled or monitored delivery of persons, five conditions are laid down: firstly, to have a clear view at all times of the conditions and conditions under which the transport is carried out; secondly, to have compulsory intervention during transport or at the latest at the final destination; thirdly, to have the physical security of persons at all times; fourthly, to be carried out by the special units of the federal police; fifthly, the prosecutor always wins the prior agreement of the federal prosecutor. So far, my preliminary answer. Your specific questions regarding the facts that led to the terrible deaths of 39 people in Essex will be answered by the federal prosecutor and we will come back to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer on the theory. I will, of course, come back to you next week on the application of the facts in the Essex dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in a rule of law it is not appropriate for the Minister of Justice to rule on a particular case or comment on a judgment. But I will of course answer your questions in the light of these elements. First of all, the sanction is not in the spirit of the decree of 18 January 2018 on the Code for the Prevention of Youth Assistance and Protection of Youth, says the Code. No interim measure may be taken with a view to imposing an immediate sanction. Nevertheless, the juvenile judge can always take action after trial in case of non-compliance with the juvenile, even if it is not announced as such in the judgement. If the juvenile judge provides for participation in training, the Code does not provide for alternative measures in case of non-compliance with this measure. This is not a shortcoming. The juvenile judge may, in fact, always call for a Cabinet interview and take any other action provided for in the Code. The duration of the measures could never exceed 20 years, provided that the Youth Court extended the measures up to that age. Article 113 of the Code provides that the Youth Court may, at any time, report or amend the measure, either ex officio or on the initiative of the Public Prosecutor's Office or the director of the institution to which the young person is entrusted. Furthermore, any action taken on the merits shall be reviewed with a view to being confirmed, reported or amended before the expiry of the period of one year from the day of the judgment. With regard to your second question, a divestiture is only possible under the cumulative conditions laid down in section 125 of the decree, namely that the young person is 16 years of age or older at the time of the facts on the one hand and that the court considers any protective measures inadequate. In the present case, the facts were essentially committed when the young person was under 16 years of age. In summary, the conditions for such divestiture were not met. Regarding your third question, the Family and Youth section of the Mons Public Prosecutor's Office is, like many others, confronted with an ever-increasing number of increasingly complex cases. Without commenting specifically on this case, you know that I wrote in my policy note that "justice delayed is justice denied". I agree with you that the speed with which the sentence is handed down largely determines its effectiveness. I aim at this speed, but sometimes the complexity of a case or of the procedures undertaken prevents me from doing so. With regard to your fourth question, article 101 of the Code provides that during the preparatory phase, the juvenile judge may, in particular, by way of investigation, subject the young person to guidance, impose training or subject him to conditions such as prohibitions of contacts or exits whose compliance can be monitored by a police service and/or the youth protection service. The implementation of these measures taken in the context of a judicial decision is the responsibility of the French Community. Let me turn to your fifth question. Several orders were made: placement in IPPJ on 13 May 2017, examination by the PPL legal psychopathology centre on 13 May 2017 and return to family under conditions with intervention of a team of accompaniment, intensive mobilization and observation on 27 June of the same year. With respect to your sixth question, only a judge may require a sexual assault offender to undergo therapy, after obtaining the advice of a licensed centre specializing in the treatment of sex offenders. This notice is mandatory. With regard to your seventh question, the Prosecutors General's Circular COL16/2012 on the reception of victims provides for a mechanism from which all victims can benefit, whether they are adults or minors. In addition, the minor victim always retains the possibility of direct access to other front-line services if necessary. With regard to your eighth question, in view of the fact that a disqualification was not required by the prosecution, an appeal was not proposed by the King's prosecutor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u55	Minister, I thank you for your time and for your very comprehensive answers, even though I still do not have anything to do with this matter. Firstly, I still do not understand why, despite the risk of recidivism posed by the perpetrator, despite his refusal to observe psychological follow-up and despite the need for him to be taken in charge, a youth judge, in this case in Mons, handed down a sentence which completely ignored it and which is not even followed by sanctions if it is not observed. It's just aberrant! Second, why has the divestment procedure for the benefit of the correctional court not been initiated? You say that in this case the conditions were not met. Of course, the perpetrator was not 16 at the beginning of the incident, but he was 16 at the end of the incident – he assaulted his victims for more than a year. I fully understand that you cannot rule on a particular case. I thank you, therefore, for answering my questions. Nevertheless, I really wanted to question you about this case because, in my opinion, it is symptomatic of the lack of consideration given today to victims of sexual violence. I know that you are aware of this, because you are dealing with this issue at length and rightly in your policy brief. You stress the need to take this violence seriously and to avoid new victims. However, this case, as I have said, raises structural problems which, in my view, call for measures. Allow me to invite you to take the initiative. In particular, I am thinking of providing for specialized and automatic follow-up of all young perpetrators of sexual violence, including proper funding of support centres. These are within your federal jurisdiction. It was also necessary to ensure that the new sexual violence centres could benefit victims of acts committed before they were set up. Indeed, these victims need support and still bear the consequences of their aggression. I also call on you to ensure that the range of sanctions available to the judge is used to impose a sentence that is in real harmony with the seriousness of the facts. It must be noted that in this case this was not the case. In doing so, victims are not recognized in their suffering and are eventually deterred from taking this already so difficult step to file a complaint, and for these people it is simply unbearable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u56	Minister, under the previous legislature, I was able to ask your predecessor about the evaluation of the Deradex sections that were put in place in our prisons. This mechanism was created in our country to fight, finally, against religious proselytism and the risks of indoctrination between prisoners. At hearings in 2020 of the Directorates of Penitentiary Institutions and the Directorate-General of DG PPE, it appeared that analyses of the effectiveness of these sections had been carried out by certain directorates of institutions. I think it was a certain Mrs Lebrun who pointed out the problem. Despite my questions about the evaluations carried out, Parliament has still not received precise information on this essential work in order to change our framework on radicalism and extremism. Minister Geens had answered one of my questions that was expected to come to conclusions, but to date Parliament has not been informed of them. So, could you please let me know if you have been informed of the completion of these evaluations on the Deradex sections in the penal institutions? If so, what services have they conducted and to whom have they been communicated? Were external scientists and experts involved in these assessments? Have the directorates of correctional institutions been integrated into this evaluation work and have any recommendations been identified? On the basis of the conclusions and recommendations identified, what initiatives have been taken and by whom?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u57	Dear colleague, thank you for your very relevant questions. The Deradex sections, created in 2016, were a great adventure and experience by and for our prison system. There have already been such experiments abroad. The evaluations were sometimes negative, sometimes positive. Like you, I look forward to the evaluation of my services. As my predecessor informed you in the middle of last year, the analysis of the operation of Deradex has indeed been carried out, but the evaluation report has not yet been prepared. These analyses have been carried out internally by various departments, beginning with the local authorities concerned, as well as the regional directorates, the Extremism Unit (CelEx) and the psychosocial and legal support services of the central prison administration. The central services are responsible for bringing together all aspects of the evaluation, but the coronavirus pandemic that we have been facing for almost a year has not only had the effect of disrupting the functioning of prisons, but also that of the central administration, which has been forced to focus its efforts on combating this virus. When the evaluation report is sent to me, the findings and conclusions will, in any case, merit discussion in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u58	Minister, we are gradually moving forward. I now hear that the assessments have taken place. I know by whom. I know that the report is still not there and I know why. But I still have to ask you when this report will be here. The only item you haven't delivered is when you expect to receive this report. Perhaps you could complete it by indicating when this year – I hope – you expect to receive it. The virus is one thing, but I think that life in prison administrations must follow its course. This aspect is one of the priority aspects of the attention to be paid by the prison authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u59	Dear colleague, I hope it will be before the summer, but I am not sure. Thanks to your question, I still have an argument to insist on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u60	Minister, thank you for this further answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u61	Madam President, Minister, there is another very problematic aspect here, at least, in some institutions. The first report of the Central Prison Supervision Board (CCSP) highlighted, inter alia, problems of access to medical care in some prisons in our country. Situations seem curiously very different from one prison to another, while overcrowding does not seem to be the direct cause of these shortcomings in terms of accessibility to care. The report also states that the Council has not responded to requests made to the Minister of Health of the previous government. The report shows care problems in Dinant or Jamioulx, but which do not appear to be primarily related to the organization of access to care. In Mons and Tournai, there seems to be a real lack of access to specialist doctors, as is the case in most prisons in Wallonia. In Brussels, the situation is very problematic, which seems rather curious. Indeed, the prisons in Forest and Berkendael are pointed out, where the situation seems very difficult to access medical care, whereas this is not the case at the prison in Saint-Gilles, where prison overcrowding is noted. I would therefore like to have some clarification on the variations in the situation in the institutions with regard to this issue, which is still extremely worrying for the inmates – you will grant me. Minister, have you received a copy of the applications that were made to the Minister of Health under the previous legislature regarding the situation with regard to access to medical care in our prisons? What were the elements covered by the PSAB? Has an analysis been recently carried out by DG PPE and communicated to your services? In concrete terms, what conclusions do you draw from the elements of the CPSC's first report? Finally, are initiatives taken in collaboration with your colleague in the Department of Health? What initiatives are planned for the year 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u62	Madam Chair, dear colleague, I personally did not receive a copy of the applications made by the CPSC to the Minister responsible for Public Health under the previous government. Nor can I confirm whether or not she answered. In any case, the issue of health care in prisons is far from self-evident. She's got all kinds of problems. It is precisely for this reason that a large-scale project was launched under the previous legislature to transfer the care system to Public Health. The government agreement again makes explicit reference to this reform. Last week, I had the opportunity to communicate the progress of this project in response to a question from Ms. Zanchetta. I will discuss the issue of the reorganization of health care in prison with my colleague in charge of Public Health at a meeting to be held on February 1st. The prison administration is, of course, trying, in the meantime, to solve all the specific problems, but it is not always obvious because it is faced, as in free society, with a shortage of certain professional groups. I am thinking here of certain specialties or psychiatrists. Finding a dentist is not always easy either. For the rest, every comment made by the CPSC or local supervisory commissions is taken seriously. In particular cases where a solution is sought after examination, it is sometimes sufficient to clarify with specific information. General recommendations from the specific institutions or the Higher Council are always considered with due attention. Contacts with doctors related to the Higher Council are also very constructive. A number of problems are related to wait times for specialist or dentist consultations. To the extent that these deadlines are comparable to those applicable in free society, this should not be a problem. However, we have to admit that in dental care, we sometimes face long waiting times. It must also be borne in mind that when it comes to specialist consultations or the execution of certain interventions, priority is always given to their implementation in our own medical centres, as these services can be perfectly compared, in terms of quality, to those provided in the outside world, but with conditions of security more in line with the population concerned. If the waiting period is longer than in the free society or if the medical situation of the person concerned requires urgent care, an exception will be made to this rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u63	Minister, thank you. You have answered my questions completely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u64	Minister, right now we are not too used to reading good news in the press. Fortunately, recent news has brought us the exception that confirms the rule, when we learned that Stéphane Moreau, Pol Heyse, François Fornieri and Pierre Meyers were being held in pre-trial detention for misappropriation and abuse of social property, but also, concerning Mr Moreau, for forgery, the use of falsehood and fraud. At the PTB, we look forward to the acceleration of this case, which has lasted too long. First of all, we would like to highlight the work of the investigators in this regard and to congratulate them on these advances. It is time for all the light to be shed on this case, which has been going on since 2016. However, we remain attentive. We know that Mr. Moreau has already benefited twice from criminal transactions that have allowed him to escape prosecution. That's enough. I think I'll relay the opinion of the vast majority of the population when I tell you, minister, that this time it is necessary to go to the end of this matter. Mr Moreau and his accomplices must no longer benefit from a preferential regime in the form of a criminal transaction. Justice must be able to follow its course calmly, without risking being short-circuited, so that these white-collar criminals are forced to be held accountable. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Minister, whether you object to the granting of a criminal transaction in this matter. If so, would you be prepared to use your right of injunction to prevent such a transaction from taking place?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u65	Mr Boukili, I do not intend to rule on an ongoing judicial case. However, I note with you that justice is doing its job. Mr Moreau is in pre-trial detention – you have seen him like me. Moreover, you should know, Mr. Boukili, that as Minister of Justice, I will never comment on an individual file. Respect for the separation of powers, which is a fundamental principle of our democracy, is at stake.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I expected. I would just like to remind you that criminal transactions are being proposed by the Public Prosecutor's Office, under the authority of the Minister of Justice, who is none other than yourself at the moment. Since you have the power of injunction, you can rule on this issue. Furthermore, it seems to me that you are also entitled to prohibit the conclusion of a criminal transaction by the prosecutor's office – since it depends on your authority. It was a way of reminding you of your skills, which you can use in this matter of public interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic356x.u67	Mrs. Rohonyi has already left. We have not seen Mr Dallemagne today. That brings us to the end of our agenda.
