ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, in your general presentation, you stated that you wanted to strengthen the confidence of the citizen. You say you wish to have the assurance that people can share their personal data in compliance with the measures guaranteed by the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). That is a commendable wish. Respect for fundamental rights – and in particular the right to privacy – is an essential part of the struggle of the PTB. On that occasion, I was able to question you about the Frank Robben case. The public does not know him very much, yet he is the reference man of the administration and successive governments in the field of data protection and computerization of the public service. Joined the CD&V, Frank Robben was inserted into the system in the 1980s, at the initiative of Jean-Luc Dehaene. His first mission was to create the Bank Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale (BCSS), which still today links all social security institutions in the country to enable them to exchange data. For example, it is on the basis of exchanges carried out by Carrefour Bank that a CPAS may have access to information from the national register or INAMI. Another example is that if I become unemployed as an isolated person but a cohabitant lives in my home, it is through this Carrefour Bank that the ONEM will be informed of my new status. Since 2018, these exchanges of data are no longer authorized by laws but by a nebulous committee: the Information Security Committee (CIS), housed and fed by the Carrefour Bank of Social Security, therefore by Mr Robben. We therefore understand the predominant impact of data exchange technologies on citizens, particularly in a subject as sensitive as social security. Harmful decisions or social assistance recipients can be made on the basis of a cross-checking of data. [[With this first experience in the public service, Frank Robben will expand his CV in the following decades: in 1995, he is a member of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy; in 2000, there is the establishment of the SPF Information and Communication Technology, now known as SPF BOSA; he is responsible for the coordination of the various e-government projects; in 2004, he is designated as managing director of Smals, an ASBL responsible for virtually all public service IT projects; in 2007 he is involved in the development of the eHealth platform, the BCSS health equivalent; in 2014, he is involved in the development of the government cloud; he is a member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority; he is a member of the steering committee of the Belgian Federal Agency for Administrative Simplification; he is the creator of the Information Security Committee – and I'm probably going through it.]] According to Cumuleo, in 2018, Frank Robben still held 20 terms, not least. He is always involved in the various structures I have cited at management levels or as an advisor. Frank Robben is therefore everywhere and it brings him between 356,000 and 376,000 euros a year. To put things in perspective, the salary of Charles Michel, our former Prime Minister, was €257,000. The President of the United States receives a salary of about 360,000 euros. In other words, the senior IT and privacy advisor in a country with 11 million people earns as much or even more than the president of the world's first power. This situation is scandalous in itself and is not resolved when we look at the various mandates of Mr Robben which reveal the multiple conflicts of interest which he has been accused of on various occasions by specialists in the sector, but also by Mrs Gerkens, my colleague from the Ecolo party who denounced this situation last year, as Peter Dedecker of the N-VA and Laurette Onkelinx of the PS had done in 2018, respectively in the Health Committee and in the plenary session in the framework of the creation of the CSI. The Data Protection Authority (DPA) of our country is responsible for monitoring compliance with the general data protection regulation. He's the private life watchdog in Belgium. It checks whether the legislation is properly applied in the interests of the citizen. Frank Robben is a member and has a dominant influence. This authority may therefore have to look at the Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale Bank or eHealth, whose administrator is Frank Robben. More generally, as Robben is involved in all public projects involving data exchange, he is in a permanent conflict of interest. It is therefore both a controller and a controlled one. It should be noted in passing that Mr. Robben's mandate to the APD is illegal as he does not comply with the appointment rules that exclude any member holding a public appointment. This is also the case of two other APD advisers, Ms. Séverine Waterbley and Mr. Nicolas Waeyaert, who are general managers of the SPF Economy and respectively future president of the SPF Economy and future president of the SPF BOSA, according to rumours. I said that he was also active in the Information Security Committee, which he created. This committee, which was inaugurated in 2018, is also illegal. It was found to be contrary to the GDPR by the Conseil d'État, whose opinion was ignored. The European Commission has also raised serious doubts. It is not clear what is the purpose of this committee, whose mission overlaps with that of ODA, the sole legal authority for the protection of our country's privacy. I explained that the BCSS allows the exchange of data between all the social institutions in our country. The eHealth platform plays the same role but links the different health institutions. Not content with having created these two platforms, Mr. Robben is at the head of both. We therefore think we dream when we read that these two institutions are normally strictly separated. In addition, commissioned first by Koen Geens and then by Vincent Van Quickenborne, he is exporting his computer models to the exchange of data in judicial and intelligence matters. This was noted with some concern by colleagues André Flahaut and Georges Dallemagne, in the Accounting Committee last December. Mr Robben, in his own right, thus centralizes almost all of the personal data of Belgian citizens. It has their social data as well as their health data and soon their judicial data. He is also the controller responsible for verifying that all this respects privacy. The crisis has again been a new opportunity for him since he is now also in charge of tracing. I will quote Emmanuel André, well known to our fellow citizens. He was confronted with the character and described him as "totalitarian, extremely powerful, capable of bringing down a government alone". He continued: "Frank Robben is at the heart of a monopoly on the public health and social security data market. From the moment he occupies both the cenacles of power and the counter-power, we are all caught in his canvas." It is known how critical tracing policy is in the fight against coronavirus. It is thanks to an effective tracing policy based on the confidence of citizens in their institutions that countries such as South Korea have been able to control the epidemic. In view of the above, the question arises as to how much of Frank Robben's influence has been predominant in the current tracing situation in our country. The PTB refuses to allow the foundations of a police state to be put in place without reacting. We cannot allow citizens' rights to be violated. People's privacy is not a commodity that can be exchanged at will. Without control of a truly independent counter-power, the multiple conflicts of interest at the heart of the Data Protection Authority (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u2	This is not an alarm indicating that your speaking time has expired, you have about 20 seconds left. Is this an exercise?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u3	Madam President, as I had forty seconds left, I will conclude. Secretary of State, the PTB refuses to allow the foundations of a police state to be laid without any reaction. We cannot allow citizens' rights to be violated. People's privacy is not a commodity that can be exchanged at will. Without control of a truly independent counter-power, the multiple conflicts of interest at the heart of the Data Protection Authority and other institutions destroy the protection of the right to privacy. If you sincerely want to restore the confidence of the citizen, I ask you to register yourself as false against these violations of fundamental rights and to develop a policy that is truly capable of guaranteeing our citizens sufficient protection. This is a health issue, since trust is essential for the fight against coronavirus, but also a democratic issue. Mr. Secretary of State, what do you think of the conflict of interest situation in which Mr. Robben finds himself due to his many mandates, notably as administrator of the personal data management platform and member of the Data Protection Authority? Do you intend to remedy this, and how? Do you intend to replace three ODA advisers who are in a situation of incompatibility, since they are exercising public mandates? Do you find it normal for a Belgian computer specialist to receive a higher salary than a prime minister? What is the exact extent of Mr. Robben's responsibilities in the failure of tracing policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u4	First, honourable Member, let me remind you that the Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale Bank and the eHealth platform fall within the competence of the Minister of Health and Social Affairs, including the mandates assigned to them and the persons designated therein. So I can only invite you to ask the minister your more individual questions. Secondly, the reasoning is totally similar with regard to your questions about the Data Protection Authority (DPA). The latter is an independent body which you, together with Parliament as a whole, are responsible for. Therefore, on the one hand, you are asking questions that you have to answer and, on the other hand, I am simply forbidden to answer without leaving the role that is mine. Mr President, our country is going through an unprecedented crisis. The democracies of the world are faced almost daily with violent overflows generated by a defiance that insidiously interferes with the innumerable fake news or harmful, aggressive and harassing content that continues to multiply. Citizens are wondering – rightly – about Europe's ability to guarantee the protection of their personal data in the face of certain abuses. This mistrust is a fundamental risk to the key issues we face. In this context, Mr Boukili, you are trying to discredit our attention to data protection. This is an inappropriate attitude. The challenge of protecting personal data is far too great to generate distrust, fear, fear and conflict. Mr President, the protection of the right to privacy in Belgium is not, as you say, annihilated. Data protection is the focus of our attention, constructive and positive attention. We must be effective and offer transparent, agile, accessible and simple tools to all our citizens. Thus, in the face of a use and an environment that is evolving faster than its legislative framework, I want – and this is essential – to speed up the process of evaluating the law of 30 July 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data. This law must now come out of childhood and become more mature. In three years, expectations have changed considerably. This assessment process should lead to a review of the law, through which I identify three major issues. Firstly, the strengthening of data protection; secondly, the transparency to be developed around the processing and use of data; and thirdly, control. The organic law of ODA is not part of the evaluation framework of the "privacy" law that we are going to begin. Nevertheless, the Privacy Act provides that the relationship between the different supervisory authorities (ODA, monitoring of police training, R & P committees for intelligence services) will have to be assessed and, in particular, the impact of this institutional landscape on citizens' privacy rights. Indirectly, ODA issues will arise and can be addressed in the context of the evaluation. It is not up to us to intervene in the practical functioning of ODA, since this is Parliament's role. To conclude, honourable Member, for the good of all citizens, I think that we should not fall into the caricature on such an important issue. Let us be able to measure the extent of the health, societal, human opportunity that our data are to generate innovation and progress at the service of all. This opportunity can only be realized in the indispensable trust that the State must be the guarantor. This is, of course, my responsibility as Secretary of State and our responsibility to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I'm telling you, she worries me more than she reassures me. First of all, you rightly say that eHealth and the Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale have other responsibilities. The problem is that Mr Robben brings these skills together. You dare tell me I'm discrediting your position. On the contrary. I had the hope, when I asked you, that you would react in a fairly consistent manner to a flagrant case of conflict of interest. I understand, from your answer, that it's as if everything was okay and "circulate, there's nothing to do with it." You did not comment on Mr. Robben's situation. Do you guarantee this conflict of interest or not? You didn't say anything about it. I asked you the question clearly and you did not speak out. You accuse me of discrediting, but what casts discredit on your position, Secretary of State, is not me. That's the situation. That's what caricature is about. That's not what I'm talking about. Caricature is the fact that one person heads both eHealth and the Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale Bank and at the same time advises in ODA, the supervisory body of these other two institutions. There's the caricature. That's not what I'm talking about. What I am saying here is that today we are facing a problem of flagrant conflict of interest, which has been denounced by all the specialists, which has been denounced by other Members. Today, I ask you about this and you don't give any position. Parliament has the power to control ODA. I'm going to table a proposal. I also have a motion for a recommendation to support Parliament in the removal of Mr Robben and others who are in conflict of interest in ODA. Yes, Parliament has that power. However, as Secretary of State who intends to build confidence in the population, you also have a duty to take a position on this kind of situation, on this conflict of interest. You don't do it and you accuse me of discrediting me. I'm not the one who throws the discredit. I play my full role as a parliamentarian and a comptroller. I control what's wrong with our society. It's up to you to position yourself on this. The discredit is not on my side, Secretary of State. The discredit comes from the situation we are experiencing and from the fact that you do not respond to this problem and that you do not take any position.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u6	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. Nabil Boukili and the response of the Secretary of State for Digitalisation, in charge of Administrative Simplification, Privacy and Buildings Administration, Assistant to the Prime Minister, - Whereas the Data Protection Authority (PAD) must, under the General Data Protection Act and Regulation (GDPR), establish an independent supervisory body with the aim of protecting citizens' right to privacy; - Whereas the law establishing ODA has transposed the GDPR by providing for a series of incompatibilities applicable to the members of its Knowledge Centre, its litigious chamber and its president; - Whereas it appears that Mr. Frank Robben, a member of the ODA Knowledge Centre, finds himself in a situation of legal incompatibility within the meaning of Article 38 of the ODA Act, since he exercises a number of public mandates; - Whereas Ms. Séverine Waterbley and Mr. Nicolas Waeyaert are in the same situation as Directors-General of the SPF Economie; - Whereas Mr Jelle Stassijns, a member of the contentious chamber, is also a member of the political staff of the N-VA Group in the Federal Parliament, thus violating the independence requirements of Article 52 of the GDPR, directly applicable in Belgian law; - Whereas Mr. David Stevens, President of ODA, participated in the task force "Data Against Corona", which constitutes an activity incompatible within the meaning of Article 44 of the Act; - Whereas Article 45 of the Act should be applied, which provides for a procedure for the removal of any member who does not comply with the conditions of appointment or more; asks the government to support the launch by the House of a removal procedure against all ODA members in situations of legal incompatibilities, in accordance with Article 45 of the ODA Act." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard Mr Nabil Boukili's speech and the reply of the Secretary of State for Digitisation, responsible for Administrative Simplification, Privacy and the Management of Buildings, attached to the Prime Minister, - whereas the Data Protection Authority should be an independent audit body under the law and the General Data Protection Regulation in order to protect citizens' right to privacy; - whereas the Law establishing the GBA is a transposition of the GDPR and consequently a series of inconsistencies were identified which apply to the members of the Knowledge Centre, the Disputes Chamber and the Chairman of the GBA; - whereas Mr Frank Robben, member of the knowledge centre of the GBA, appears to be in a state of legal incompatibility, as referred to in Article 38 of the Law establishing the GBA, as he performs a number of public functions; - whereas Mrs Séverine Waterbley and Mr Nicolas Waeyaert, in their capacity as Director-General of the FPS Economy, are in the same state; - whereas Mr Jelle Stassijn, member of the dispute chamber, is, moreover, one of the political staff of the N-VA in the Federal Parliament, which is contrary to the independence required by Article 52 GDPR and directly applicable in Belgian law; - whereas Mr David Stevens, Chairman of the GBA, participated in the Task Force "Data Against Corona," which is an incompatible activity within the meaning of Article 44 of the Act; - whereas Article 45 of the Act, which provides for a procedure of exemption from the mandate of each member who does not or no longer complies with the conditions of appointment, should be applied; calls on the Government to support the initiation by the Court, in accordance with Article 45 of the Data Protection Authority Act, of a mandate waiver procedure against all members of the GBA who are in a situation of legal incompatibility." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Benoît Piedboeuf. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u7	Madam President, Secretary of State, I am asking you a question that concerns millions or even billions of users around the world. In early January, the WhatsApp email application announced new terms of use for its approximately two billion users. The Californian group, which derives most of its profits from targeted advertising on Facebook and Instagram, has undertaken to generate revenue from its courier, such as Messenger, by allowing advertisers to contact their customers or even sell their products directly there, as is already the case in India. This will lead to a greater sharing of data with the parent company, Facebook. These new rules, which will be active on 8 February, triggered a panic movement among the users of the application, which has also built its reputation on data protection, thus generating registration records among its competitors, Signal and Telegram mainly. In a press release, WhatsApp states that the update will in no way affect the confidentiality of messages exchanged "with your friends and family" and only relate to business conversations. The doubt is there, however! Mr Secretary of State, consumer data protection is essential. As such, the European Union has put in place the GDPR which, a priori, should soften the new rules of this update. Can you confirm that European users will be able to obtain different conditions from those announced? As the main headquarters of Facebook for the European Union is located in Ireland, what are the powers of the Data Protection Authority in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, my first question concerns the adaptation to WhatsApp, an app that has two billion users. They are required to install an update. Of course, it's mostly about our metadata. They want to link it to Facebook and they want to know more about us. It is the eternal Internet law: if one does not pay for a product, then one may be the product oneself. That's what this is about. I'm less afraid of the content of our conversations, as WhatsApp uses an end-to-end encryption. So I am less afraid of that, but the fact that we have to give up more of us is a cause for concern to me and a lot of users. WhatsApp has taken a bit of gas back in the meantime, but I thought this question was important enough. I would like to know to what extent there is a conflict with European legislation. What are our options? Mr Secretary of State, how do you look at the other message services that are now advancing, such as Signal and Telegram, on which we hear good, but also less good stories? My second question is about something quite different. In America last week there was a remarkable ruling from a court in the state of Illinois, where there is strict legislation for the use of biometric data. That is interesting, because we in Belgium also have a ban on the use of biometric data. In Illinois, it was about Facebook using automatic facial recognition. Any one of us who uses Facebook knows his face can be tagged by someone else who puts a picture on his page. This was done automatically in the beginning, but now we have to give permission to do so. However, the process is still in place. Is it allowed for an online platform to use technology that is actually prohibited in our country? If that were not allowed, then who is it to intervene?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u9	Mr Verduyckt, first of all I would like to make it clear that I do not yet have the legal authority to examine the conditions of use of WhatsApp, Facebook, Signal and Telegram and the compliance with data protection rules. This power to monitor compliance with the GDPR is legally the responsibility of the Data Protection Authority (GBA). I would remind you that the GBA is an independent institution whose independence is guaranteed by Parliament, which is the only body of the State that supervises it. I turn to the growing importance of the issue of data protection. It is indeed a crucial issue of freedom to dispose of your digital life, to disclose your personal data or not, but it is also and above all a question of transparency and trust. Today, the Digital Services Act is the tool that must bring us back to these fundamental European values that must necessarily be understood in the development of virtual platforms. This is a real opportunity for Member States to set the benchmarks in terms of, among other things, data protection. For my part, I identify several issues around the Digital Service Act. First, the fundamental issues of freedom of expression, individuals, quality, harmfulness and transparency of content will need to be discussed. The border is sometimes tenuous and we do not want to fall into a world where good and evil would not be defined as a kind of ministry of truth. Belgium must position itself on this important issue, by moving from the fundamental and founding values of Europe and integrating them into its digital transformation strategy. These values have recently been translated into the Berlin Declarations on Digital Society, signed by Belgium and the other Member States. Secondly, on the form, it is a question of defining or redefining the legal and technical tools applicable within the Member States, which will in practice generate more transparency, trust and accountability. Have social networks become media, content publishers or broadcasters? Do they develop an editorial line? How can transparency and fairness be given priority, not arbitrary decision? That is one of the questions we will have to answer. The same applies to algorithms; the number of existing interactions on social networks inevitably induces the use of artificial intelligence to identify the nature of the content that circulates on these platforms. But these algorithms are well built by individuals. It is a decision tree that, from a question, and from a succession of yes and no, generates an answer to questions that are human; questions of values, transparency or fairness. In Belgium, a group of experts will have to start and feed this reflection, as well as open it to society, question the population, ask the community, philosophical and cultural world. This will set clear and defined new benchmarks to generate transparency and confidence in response to recent developments. To return to the specific purpose of your questions, I will confine myself to the elements brought to my knowledge. For the rest, I invite you to question the Data Protection Authority, which, I must remind you, depends on Parliament and is independent. First of all, I would like to point out that Whatsapp and Facebook, whose European seat is in Ireland, are subject to European data protection rules, as laid down in the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Whatsapp and Facebook must therefore ensure that the conditions of use for European users comply with the requirements set out in the GDPR. The Irish Data Protection Authority, which is the lead authority for WhatsApp, is currently conducting several surveys on data sharing of this application with Facebook and its compliance with the GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation). The purpose of the first survey is to examine the extent to which WhatsApp users have been properly informed of this sharing of data. This investigation is closed and the findings of the Irish Data Protection Authority have been forwarded for approval to the European Data Protection Committee, which brings together the supervisory data protection authorities of all the Member States of the European Union, including the Belgian Data Protection Authority. The second survey is still ongoing and concerns the free nature of user consent to data sharing. As the investigations in progress are confidential, I do not have any additional information on these cases for which the conclusions of the European Data Protection Committee are expected. Like its European counterparts, the Belgian Data Protection Authority has the opportunity to convey its views on the Irish Authority's draft decision. On the specific issue of the use of facial recognition technologies, I can provide you with the following information. The use of facial recognition is indeed a particularly sensitive issue and is subject to strict conditions laid down in the GDPR. Each online platform, including Facebook, insofar as it provides services to European citizens, is subject to European data protection rules as regulated by the GDPR under penalty of fines. According to the GDPR, the processing of biometric data such as those used in facial recognition is prohibited, except for exceptions such as the free consent of the data subject or a specific legal framework. The mechanism of proposed tagging without the consent of the user has, as you rightly point out, been condemned in the United States. Following these convictions, Facebook made a change with effect from 3 September 2019 with the automatic tagging function disabled by default, unless the user indicates on a separate screen that he wants to activate this option. I do not have the legal powers to investigate the automatic tagging function and in particular whether it meets the requirements of the user's free and express consent and compliance with data protection rules. The power to monitor compliance with the GDPR is legally one of the supervisory authorities. Finally, on the question of the specific powers of the Data Protection Authority with regard to WhatsApp or Facebook, it is currently brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Indeed, the Belgian Data Protection Authority has requested the cessation by Facebook of the processing of personal data contrary to the data protection rules, in respect of any Internet user established on Belgian territory. In this case, the Brussels Court of Appeal asked the Court of Justice of the European Union whether the GDPR effectively opposed a national data protection authority, other than the lead authority, taking legal action in its Member State against infringements of the GDPR with regard to cross-border data processing. At this stage, in accordance with the Opinion of the Advocate General, the Lead Data Protection Authority, i.e. the Irish Authority, has general jurisdiction to take legal action against infringements of the GDPR with regard to the cross-border processing of data. However, the other data protection authorities concerned are entitled to take legal action in their Member States where the GDPR specifically allows them to do so. We are awaiting a ruling by the Court of Justice of the European Union on this case, which will, I am sure, clarify the role of our Belgian Data Protection Authority in relation to Internet users established on Belgian territory. Both this decision and that of the Irish Authority on the WhatsApp or Facebook file are of crucial importance. Indeed, these decisions will serve as a precedent and signal for all social networks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you even if the answer was very long, even philosophical. I understand that the Data Protection Authority alone is competent and independent. Still, you are the Secretary of State for Privacy. It seems to me, therefore, normal for a Member of Parliament to address you in order to obtain as many answers as possible. The end of your answer is indeed interesting. We are waiting for these decisions, which I hope should clarify the situation in this area and reassure the users because, in the end, we are still turning to them. It is important to provide them with answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u11	The Data Protection Authority does indeed play a central role in this regard. For me, however, it is more than just about privacy. A particularly large company, Facebook, connects with another, very popular product of theirs, namely WhatsApp. They don't have a monopoly today, but they almost do. They almost oblige users to take that step and thus make their metadata available to that company. That is a form of power use that worries me. As Secretary of State, you rightly refer to European legislation, the Digital Services Act, which is coming. We have to convert these. It is therefore our task as a government to monitor and ensure that we protect our citizens from certain actions of Facebook. This and the statements made by those cases that run around it are interesting. For facial recognition, please also refer to the GBA. I will therefore interperate them. They will soon come to Parliament on the Advisory Committee on Scientific and Technological Questions. I'll ask them that question again. Facebook runs on a very thin cord there. You are right to state that today we need permission to be tagged automatically, but we are using the technology that is essentially prohibited. They may be in general with the GDPR, but they still go on a particularly weak cord. It is therefore only natural that we express our concern about this and see if that is really something we want in our country. Thank you for your answers. I'm gonna get back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u12	Secretary of State, on 28 December the press took over the publication of the Flemish decree of 18 December 2020. This decree allows Flemish local public authorities to access a federal database to monitor temporary isolation and compliance with quarantine. Article 1 of the Decree states that it regulates Community matters. This is where the damage is caused, because the protection of privacy, regulated by this Flemish decree, is a matter for the federal authority. This competence has already been specified by the Legislative Section of the Council of State, which also considers that any draft regional or Community standard must necessarily be submitted to the Data Protection Authority (PDA). In this case, ODA is deprived of a substantial part of its competence by the VTC (Vlaamse Toezichtcommissie). Thus, the draft Flemish decrees and decrees would be submitted to it instead of being subject to ODA. A Flemish ODA in a way, but unconstitutional. Since the summer of 2019, all Flemish decrees and decrees would escape the control of ODA, as the press mentions, in a real de facto regionalisation of the matter. However, only ODA is competent to monitor compliance in our country with GDPR and data protection principles. Under the Constitution, only ODA has the status of supervisory authority conferred on it by the Act of 3 December 2017. I am aware that the Data Protection Authority depends on the House, but I cannot imagine for a moment that, as Secretary of State of the federal government, you do not have an opinion on this band-forced regionalization. This loose regionalisation of this sensitive matter, moreover in the midst of a health crisis, leads me to question you about this disturbing initiative, which insidiously detricates, and in violation of the Constitution, an essential part of our rule of law. Here are my questions; they are very simple. Have you been informed of this Flemish decree? If so, has a legal study been commissioned by the services, for example by your own, to verify the legal validity of this decree with regard to the division of powers between the federal state and the federated entities? What is your opinion, as Secretary of State, on this coup de force juridique of a federated entity towards the federal and constitutional norm? Does the federal government intend to challenge this decree before the Constitutional Court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u13	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, as I recalled during my inquiry into the Frank Robben case in Belgium, the statutory privacy regulator is the Data Protection Authority (DPA). Since privacy is a federal jurisdiction, ODA is the only legal authority in this area, in accordance with the law and the GDPR. In practice, however, the Belgian State still remains unlawful in this regard. In our country, the expertise of ODA has been narrowed in favour of other committees: the Information Security Committee and, in Flanders, the Vlaamse Toezichtcommissie. In its edition of Friday 15 January, the newspaper L'Echo is concerned: "Did Flanders gently regionalise data protection?" Flanders has in fact drawn up a decree which organises the control of quarantines through access to covid data for the mayors of the Flemish communes. Legally, this decree should have gone through ODA, the only authority to be able to give its opinion on data processing. On the contrary, the Flemish Region asked the Vlaamse Toezichtcommissie for advice, which seems to be a habit. According to the newspaper, the APD was no longer consulted by Flanders on draft decrees or decrees. This poses a real constitutional problem. Legislation and regional authority cannot replace a jurisdiction that remains federal. An appeal was also filed by Ms. Jaspar, Director of the APD Knowledge Centre. Mr Secretary of State, could you confirm that the supervisory committees, the Information Security Committee and the Vlaamse Toezichtcommissie, are exercising powers in violation of the GDPR and the Constitution? Do you intend to remove these committees as part of your assessment of the law governing the protection of personal data in our country? The Council of Ministers may refer the Flemish decree to the Constitutional Court for annulment. Are you considering this lead? I hope that this time you will be competent to answer me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u14	Minister, the Data Protection Authority is the authority recognized by the Belgian legislator to monitor compliance with the GDPR and general data protection principles. This authority must be consulted in order to give a prior opinion on a law, decree or order that establishes data processing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u15	- Are you concerned about this form of regionalisation of the data protection authority? - Does the Federal Government intend to challenge this decree before the State Council? - Have you made contact with the European Data Protection Committee? Is there a notification?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, but I repeat that I am not competent for everything concerning the Data Protection Authority. You should know better than I do, dear parliamentarians. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the data protection issue is not exclusively a federal jurisdiction. Indeed, it is clear from the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court and the Council of State that the federal authority is competent for the general framework – i.e. the determination of minimum standards – but that the federated entities are also competent. Thus, within the framework of their powers, the federated entities can set up their own supervisory bodies, as did Flanders with the Vlaamse Toezichtcommissie (VTC) and Brussels. According to the information available to me, the Brussels supervisory body is inactive, but it does exist. Similarly, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation is in the process of reaching agreement on the establishment of a similar supervisory body. However, this autonomy has several obvious limits, which will also have to be analysed in the context of the evaluation I have mentioned and which I believe is indispensable. Federal entities must respect the general framework – the Privacy Act – as well as European standards such as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). These standards may contain stricter measures and impose more safeguards, but always in line with the hierarchy of standards. Moreover, in accordance with the competence of ODA, the supervisory authorities of the federated entities cannot decide on matters that fall within the general framework referred to in ODA. In this regard, a structural dialogue is already under way between the VTC and ODA, in particular through the participation of the President of ODA in the deliberations of the VTC as an observer, as foreseen by the Flemish decree establishing the VTC. In my view, this dialogue needs to be better managed through a cooperation agreement between ODA and the VTC, but also with all the autonomous data control bodies. Within the framework of this agreement, Parliament, as the supervisory body of the Data Protection Authority, should be invited to initiate such an approach and directly question ODA on this crucial issue of coordination with other federal and regional data protection authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u17	Secretary of State, your answer plunges me into an ocean of perplexity, me and my colleagues. I'm probably gonna take a while before I get out. We cannot say that there is nothing in your answer: there is a reminder of federal standards and I thank you for that. However, we could have hoped for a somewhat stronger defence against the blows of canif in the federal powers which was made here by this practice of the Region and the Flemish Community to act as if the Data Protection Authority, whose duty we have to assume a form of protection, did not exist. I ask you the question today because I first asked the Minister of Justice. The commission has decided that it will address you. I should also ask the Minister of Institutional Reforms whether or not the federal government does not consider that there is a problem in the prerogatives of the federal state. This is not just about Parliament, it is about the government. We are no longer, even if this is quite appreciative, trying to see if things can be solved by a form of structural dialogue. Unfortunately, in this case, the Flemish Government is not at all in a dialogue logic. It would be interesting if it were to be, but it is still the world backwards that the Federal Parliament must protect the Data Protection Authority because neither the Flemish government nor the federal government intends to do so. I believe that with a number of other parties, we will work to ensure that the integrity of this Data Protection Authority and here, the integrity of the Constitution, are more respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u18	Secretary of State, I was afraid that you would tell us not to be competent because we talked about the ODA that comes under the power of the House. But here, it's about it, because we're talking about privacy, which is your jurisdiction. Do you stand in the direction of protecting the privacy of our citizens? You cannot say that you are not competent at this level. The situation we face is a violation of the Constitution. That was said by the Council of State. You can say that there are prerogatives, but the Council of State said it was illegal. When you talk about collaboration, it's because the Chair of ODA participates in VTC meetings, which is also some form of conflict of interest. I wonder if it is still useful to ask you questions in that sense if you always answer that you are not competent in this matter. If you are to protect the privacy of our citizens, you are to position yourself when the counter-power that guarantees this protection is undermined. I remain puzzled and stunned by your answers, wondering when you will be competent to react and protect the privacy of our citizens. I wonder, because I have quoted two files of your jurisdiction, otherwise the matter would not have been transferred to your firm. The least we can do is to provide clear answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u19	Secretary of State, thank you for your very detailed answer to the law. Similarly, you have developed a nuanced and critical opinion on the role of the Chair of ODA in this Vlaamse Toezichtcommissie in which he participates informally, as an observer, as provided by law. You called for a cooperation agreement. Naïvely, I thought the initiative was yours. It is therefore a prerogative of the Speaker of the House, who will have to contact all the Speakers of the House to that end. The urgency is there, because the unconstitutionality we find must be resolved by such a cooperation agreement. I'll work in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u20	Madam Chair, I would like to make a point because of a certain lack of awareness of the government's role in relation to privacy. Two tools need to be distinguished in this regard. The first is the legal framework. It is indeed my role to identify how, within it, we can install serenity in data protection. I said this in my policy note and reaffirmed it here: the key objective is to quickly assess privacy laws. On the other hand, I have no authority over ODA, which is an independent body under Parliament's supervision. Therefore, when you ask me questions about ODA or how it works, I can only send them back to you. However, in order to properly identify my role, I would like to point out that it is a question of seeing how I can change the legal framework, obviously being supported by Parliament, after an evaluation which I mentioned at the very first minute of our meeting devoted to my general policy note. Of course, this assessment will be crucial if the legal framework is the subject of many questions. In the next few days and weeks, this evaluation will begin, as I announced. It is in this context that I, as Secretary of State, will act in accordance with my duties and responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u21	As the last word comes back to Parliament, Mr Boukili, do you want to reply again?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u22	Mr. Secretary of State, I'm glad you made that clear. I am not asking you about ODA here, but about the legal framework within your jurisdiction. I ask you to position yourself on the illegality of people who sit on ODA. You just confirmed it. It is your competence when there is a situation that is clearly illegal. You just said it, but you're not answering. You're not taking a stand. In this context, I do not understand. It is not because I say "ODA" in my speech that the legal aspect that was the subject of my question should not be answered. You talked about evaluation. Mr. Secretary of State, it would be nice to have a precise timing so that we can follow this case. I'm sure I'll rest the question. I am well aware of the competence of Parliament and that of the government. I asked you about your competence, which is to monitor the legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u23	Mr President, my competence is not the control of the legal framework. That's where the confusion you're making is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u24	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, we had a discussion in the Committee on Mobility about a pilot project of the Vias, in which motorists are photographed on the public road. This is done in order to test a new technology to control the use of mobile phones behind the wheel. The Minister for Mobility, Mr Gilkinet, stated on 20 January that the Vias had not requested permission from the Data Protection Authority, which may have violated the privacy law. On 20 January the Vias had already screened 20,000 drivers. None of these citizens have given their consent to this. This seems to us to be a breach of privacy. That way any private firm can just start filming citizens or photographing them on a bridge above the highway, as happened here. Mr Secretary of State, is it allowed to film or photograph citizens on the public road for a pilot project without their permission? Will you instruct Vias to stop this pilot project immediately? Will you instruct the Data Protection Authority to investigate this matter thoroughly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u25	Madam President, Mrs Vindevoghel, monitoring compliance with data protection rules is the responsibility of the Data Protection Authority, which is independent. Consequently, it is not for me to prohibit the continuation of this project or to open an investigation. I would point out, however, that the GBA would have opened an investigation into this matter. So I do not have any specific information on this pilot project. Nor am I competent to determine whether this pilot project is being carried out in accordance with data protection rules. However, I would like to stress that the question of the legality of filming or photographing citizens on the public road without their consent has no simple answer. In principle, the European Data Protection Regulation, the GDPR, provides for principles other than the consent of the data subject, such as the public interest and the legitimate interest of the controller. In addition, to the extent that this pilot project would be carried out for the purpose of scientific research, certain specific provisions and derogations, as referred to in Articles 186 to 208 of the Law of 30 July 2018, would apply. This pilot project, in which citizens are filmed and photographed on public roads, could therefore be considered to comply with data protection rules if it meets the requirements foreseen by the GDPR.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, there has been no application to the Data Protection Authority on this issue, has there? Normally, when such a project is launched, one should first ask the Data Protection Authority if all privacy rules are respected? That didn't happen here. Now the Data Protection Authority is going to check whether or not they respect privacy. That's the reverse world, isn't it? In the meantime, this is already going on and the project ends on 8 February 2021. I find it strange that the Vias photographed 20,000 motorists without having to ask the Data Protection Authority. It is about a project for the safety and protection of motorists. Of course, we are in favour of this, but not in this way, without asking the Data Protection Authority for advice and checking that all rules regarding privacy have been respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, the ministerial decision of your colleague, the Minister of the Interior, of 12 January 2021, which implicitly extended all the corona measures until 1 March, appears to include a provision that gives the RSZ extensive possibilities to collect, merge and process, for the benefit of all services and institutions responsible for combating the virus and monitoring the measures, health and other personal data of all employees and self-employed persons, including data mining and data matching, in order to support the detection and investigation of clusters and collections. The RSZ was allowed to collect data in advance, but only for the benefit of the contact centres, health inspections and mobile teams. The intention would be for Sciensano's RSZ to know who is infected and who is returning from a foreign red zone, so that health inspectors can avoid the spread of the virus through work. However, according to privacy experts, the provision is extremely vague. What exactly do data matching and data mining mean? Which data is it about exactly? The provision should have been introduced by law and not by ministerial decree. Moreover, the mandatory advice of the GBA was not requested. The experts are particularly concerned about the extension to "all services and institutions." Mr Secretary of State, for what reason was no opinion requested from the GBA knowledge centre on the amendment made to the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 by the Ministerial Decision of 12 January? Is there, according to your information, the possibility that fines will be issued on the basis of the data collected and/or processed? Will you urge the Minister of the Interior to withdraw the contested provision, pending any further advice to the GBA? On Tuesday 19 January 2021, the Management Committee of the GBA would have already held an initial discussion on whether or not to take legal action against the contested provision. Has anything been decided on by the Management Committee? What can you tell us about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u28	Madam President, Mr D'Haese, I have taken note of the ministerial decision to amend the ministerial decision of my colleague, the Minister for the Interior, of 28 October 2020 on urgent measures to limit the spread of the corona virus COVID-19. The question you are asking relates mainly to Article 8 of this Ministerial Decision, which amends Article 22 of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020. I see two aspects to your question: firstly, the introduction of a new Member and secondly, the role of the GBA. Firstly, the new first paragraph of Article 22 extends the collection of data for the benefit of all the services and institutions responsible for combating the spread of the Covid-19 corona virus, as well as of all the departments and institutions responsible for monitoring compliance with the obligations imposed in the context of the urgent measures to limit the spread of the Covid-19 corona virus. However, the second paragraph of the same Article remains in force and provides that "The personal data resulting from the processing referred to in paragraph 1 shall be kept with respect for the protection of personal data and no longer than necessary for the purposes for which they are processed and shall be destroyed at the latest on the day of entry into force of the Ministerial Decision announcing the end of the federal phase concerning the coordination and management of the crisis coronavirus COVID-19." In view of the hierarchy of standards, this Ministerial Decision cannot exempt the processing of data collected in the specific framework of this Ministerial Decision from the rules imposed by the GDPR and the Privacy Act which remain applicable in their entirety. Secondly, with regard to the role of the GBA, as I have repeatedly emphasised, the Data Protection Authority is an independent body. I shall therefore not comment on the work in progress, particularly since the investigations carried out by this institution are confidential. With regard to the data processed and the fact that the collection of this data would be intended to support the monitoring of compliance with the quarantine rules at the workplace by the social inspection services, I refer to what Minister Vandenbroucke said. As regards the entry into force of the pandemic law, I would refer you to the discussion that took place in plenary last week. The Minister for the Interior stressed that she wished it to enter into force as soon as possible. In any case, it cannot be excluded that the law will already apply during the current crisis period. At the risk of repeating myself, data protection is at the heart of all debates. Therefore, the review of the privacy law needs to be speeded up urgently, in order to remove all possible doubts. That's my part.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic348x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but I think it is actually disappointing. You say something isn't there. You say there's no respect. And you say something's wrong. You're referring to a pandemic law that isn't there yet. So we will not be able to make much progress. Then, in your reply, you invoke the respect for the independence of the GBA. I think that is a fine line of argument, if you have not failed to call on that crucial independence. You should have asked for advice from that independent body. No questions of advice, and afterwards we come to say that we must respect the independence of that body, is to show that you have no respect for it. It is clear that a preliminary opinion from this independent body should have been requested. You started by saying that an extensive interpretation should be possible. I will read your answer again, because that was not always perfectly understandable. You are actually arguing for a very extensive interpretation of the privacy data in view of this corona wave. We are all convinced that we must fight this wave with the most efficient weapons, but you seem to believe that privacy data can be interpreted very extensively. I do, however, miss the necessary fundamental respect for the protection of essential data. Thank you for your answer. We will continue to follow this up.
