ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u1	Madam President, Minister, my question also deals with topicality and the blockade in Cuba. After President Obama had put a turn on policy and put a minimum of relief into the inhuman blockade that has lasted the United States for 60 years, his successor Trump has again raised the screws. Obama's measures were reversed and Cuba, if I am not mistaken, has been put back on the list of terrorist countries in the last few weeks of the Trump administration. The US is self-righteous to place countries there that would supposedly not fully cooperate in the US's efforts against global terrorism. On 25 May 2021, the Biden Government decided to keep Cuba on that list, even though Cuba has been a victim of illegal foreign interference and of many terrorist attacks for many years. The majority of these attacks were organised, financed and carried out with the cooperation of the US Government or American citizens. They have also lost their lives to 3,400 Cuban citizens, and they have caused a lot of economic damage, which, according to the Cuban Government, amounts to 181 billion dollars. The perpetrators of these terrorist attacks also enjoy immunity in the United States. For example, on 30 April 2020, the Cuban Embassy in Washington was shot with machine guns. The United States is refusing to qualify that attack as a terrorist. The unsubs weren't arrested either. In the meantime, Oxfam issued a comprehensive report on 10 May 2021 on the catastrophic impact of the US blockade on Cuba, which was still reinforced under Trump by the so-called Title III of the Helms Burton Act. Oxfam quite rightly calls on the Biden government to withdraw Cuba from that list, as Biden did before with the Yemeni Ansar Allah, for example. Like almost every Member State of the United Nations, with the exception of Israel and recently Brazil of Bolsonaro, Belgium has been condemning the US blockade for years. Our country did so again on 23 June, if I am not mistaken, at the UN General Assembly. Although this blockade during the pandemic has a disastrous impact on the Cuban population and although the members of the United Nations almost unanimously ask the US to lift the blockade every year, the Biden government does not immediately seem to plan to reverse the sanctions imposed by Trump or to improve relations with Cuba and lift the blockade. Have you mentioned this blockade in our bilateral relations with the United States? Have you stressed Belgium's request to lift the blockade? Have you already called on the United States to hold the perpetrators of the terrorist attacks against Cuba responsible for their actions? Have you argued within the European Union for the European Commission's condemnation of this blockade? Will you also call for Council Regulation 2271/96 of 22 November 1996 to be supplemented by a specific mechanism to protect the Member States, citizens and businesses of the European Union from the extraterritorial application of unilateral US sanctions against Cuba?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u2	Mr President, Mr De Vuyst, the issue of the US embargo and its consequences have already been discussed with the US authorities during our bilateral technical contact. Belgium also supports the EU's contacts with the United States in this area. Belgium is opposed to the embargo and on 23 June again supported the resolution which Cuba is accustomed to submit to the United Nations General Assembly on an annual basis in order to put an end to the embargo. We make sure that our concerns about this dispute are known to the new American administration. However, this issue was not raised at the bilateral meeting on 15 June between President Biden and the US Foreign Minister Blinken with the King, the Prime Minister and myself. We do not share the US's decision to include Cuba on the list of countries supporting terrorism. We now hope for a dynamic future relationship between Washington and Havana. As far as the attacks on Cuban interests are concerned, I cannot comment on any case you mention. What is certain is that Belgium condemns all forms of terrorism. We also condemn any attack on a diplomatic representation. According to our information, the perpetrator of this attack on the Cuban Embassy in Washington in 2020 was arrested and prosecuted by the US authorities. The US is a democratic rule of law and we respect the separation of powers as a basic principle. Like Belgium, the European Commission and the European External Action Service also condemn the US embargo against Cuba. The EU and Cuba hold regular dialogues on the US embargo and its impact. Furthermore, one of the most concrete reactions is the regulation 2271/1996, the so-called blocking position, which you are quoting. That Regulation has been applicable to US sanctions against Cuba since 2018 and aims to protect European citizens and businesses from that far-reaching sanction and its extraterritorial effect. In particular, the Regulation prohibits compliance with that sanction, as well as cooperation with the US authority or courts in that context. European citizens or companies that comply with this sanction can be held liable. In Belgium, that provision is implemented by the Law of 2 May 2019, which provides for significant fines. If an EU citizen or a company were convicted in the United States, it could bring a counterclaim in the EU against the US complainant to claim damages with possible seizure of assets. As you can see, therefore, the blocking statute already provides for far-reaching concrete measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u3	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer to all the elements I had raised in my question. You say that Belgium condemned this blockade on 23 June as usual in the general assembly. As usual, only two countries voted against, namely the United States and Israel, now also joined Brazil. I fear that it will not be enough to persuade the United States to stop doing so. After all, we can see that the situation is deteriorating. The Cubans are now also experiencing for the first time a wave of covid contamination, including the more contagious delta variant. We have Oxfam's report, but in recent weeks we have also seen Cubans coming into the streets to protest the catastrophic situation in which the island is still in its present state. It is about the impossibility of buying raw materials for the self-developed vaccines or buying other vaccines. There is not enough fuel to keep electricity companies running 24 hours a day. In addition, there are many other problems, partly caused by the sanctions imposed by the United States. Allow me to stress that it has always been the explicit aim of the blockade to plunge the population into misery for a great deal, in the hope that the people will turn against the government. This is, of course, the ultimate aim of the American sanctions, which are, by the way, all over the world: to destabilize or overthrow governments. The US wants a regime change, whether subtle or explicit, and they want to force governments to play the game according to the rules that suit American interests. You said, Minister, that the European Union has already put into effect countermeasures. But the fact is that the US, as a superpower, exerts a great deal of power and also a great deal of intimidation, including on all other countries that would call bilateral relations with Cuba, or that would actually do business with the Cuban island. The fate of the Cubans cannot only be improved by providing humanitarian aid, of course. The blockade must be effectively lifted. That is also what António Guterres and Michelle Bachelet asked at the beginning of the pandemic. Cuba itself sends doctors to poor countries to help. Actually, it's cynical. We now see that Cuba itself is in trouble and cannot export the vaccines it has developed, out of international solidarity, to the rest of the world. I believe that we have now reached a point where the rule-based international order which the United States is always imposing manu militari on this planet, and which, moreover, is in direct contradiction with international law, starting with the Charter of the United Nations itself, is beginning to threaten the survival of humanity. Not just about Cuba, even when it comes to Iran. These are two issues in which the position of Belgium and the European Union differs significantly from that of the United States. It has become insufficient to ask the United States kindly if they would please lift the blockade. We must not fall into the trap of sending humanitarian aid to Cuba and making it conditional. We must, I believe, simply ignore the United States and simply trade with Cuba. We must establish normal relations, including economic ones, as we do with other countries. That is all, I believe, the Cubans need.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u4	Madam Minister, on 15 April 2021, twelve human rights experts from Europe, Asia, Africa and South America published a destructive report on the systematic repression of the African-American community in the United States. The report states that systematic murder, extreme physical deprivation of liberty, torture, persecution and other inhumane acts against unarmed African-Americans by police forces constitute crimes against humanity. They call on the International Criminal Court to investigate those systematic human rights violations. The investigation was conducted by the National Conference of Black Lawyers, the National Lawyers Guild and the International Association of Democratic Lawyers, after the United Nations were unable to investigate the crimes in its own name under intense pressure from the United States. In the 188-page report, human rights experts accuse the United States of neglecting its obligations under international humanitarian law, both in the law on police services and in the day-to-day operation of those services, including, of course, the ethnic profiling of African-Americans in traffic and identity checks. They also refer to the situation as a worrying nationwide pattern of disproportionate use of deadly force against the African-American minority and a culture of impunity, in which police officers rarely have to answer and their murderous behavior is systematically minimized to a problem of a few rotten apples. The investigation was led by Ms. Hina Jilani, President of the World Organisation Against Torture. She explained the following. I quote: "As a lawyer who has participated in numerous investigations into human rights violations by the United Nations, I am familiar with stories of extreme brutality by police forces worldwide, but the testimonies we have heard during these public hearings in the United States have been extremely difficult for me to hear. I am shocked that this country, which claims to be a global defender of human rights, itself fails to fulfil its obligations under international humanitarian law. Madam Secretary, first of all, have you taken note of the disturbing report? Do you support the experts' request for an independent international investigation into the serious human rights violations of an ethnic minority? Secondly, will you sue the issue in our bilateral relations with the United States? Thirdly, why, for example, is the European Union not calling for sanctions, as we always do in non-Western countries? For example, China is not waiting for an international investigation by the United Nations. The sanctions had already been imposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u5	Racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related forms of intolerance are unacceptable. The discriminatory situation faced by African-Americans in the United States is well documented. Since 2013, the call for decisive action for racial justice led by the Black Lives Matter movement has become increasingly louder in the United States. That call sounded so loud and was worn so wide that structural racism is being tackled with renewed force. For example, various measures were taken at federal level and at the level of individual states. Others are still in the preparatory phase, such as the George Floyd Justice in Police Act. On the other hand, some laws, including those in Florida and Lahoma, are aimed at suppressing protests for racial justice and the Black Lives Matter movement, which is worrying. The urgent debate at the Human Rights Council in June 2020 on the current racially-inspired human rights violations, systematic racism, police violence and violence against peaceful protest demonstrated that, unfortunately, racism and racial discrimination are still widespread worldwide. It has also contributed to a better understanding of the problem. As regards the Belgian response, during the Universal Periodic Review in November 2020, Belgium recommended that any accusation of excessive use of force by police officers should be investigated swiftly and effectively. The United States has accepted that recommendation. Our country had also asked what measures had been taken with regard to police brutality and illegal use of force by law enforcement, in particular against members of certain ethnic and racial groups. The United States has reiterated that all complaints about systemic injustice are heard and investigated by the authorities. They added that nothing less than absolute equality in society is acceptable. The fact that ex-agent Derek Chauvin was found guilty of the murder of George Floyd is a clear signal and I am sure that American society and politics are taking the necessary steps to eradicate inequality, discrimination and exclusion. This shows that a call to impose a sanction is, however, not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u6	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer, but I cannot get the impression that there are two measures and weights. If Russia or China committed only one third of these human rights violations against an ethnic minority, such a report would immediately be taken seriously and would also immediately be called for sanctions. However, the US has a special status and is also our privileged ally. They get away with it all the time. The media have not reported on the international human rights report, just as they have not mentioned for decades that the US, the cradle of freedom and the leader of the free world, are locking up a larger part of the population than any other country in the world. By the way, with less than 5% of the world's population, they manage to close down 22% of the world's prison population, with African-American and alien communities being disproportionately represented. As has been said, the US is a close ally who shares our values and standards, of which we acknowledge.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u7	Madam Minister, Mr President, a magistrate who turned out to be "tendentious," sometimes even acted illegally and acted in the shadow of the United States: the most extensive anti-corruption operation in Brazilian history turned out to be the biggest legal scandal in that same history. For example, a report of April 9, 2021 by the investigative journalists Gaspard Estrada and Nicolas Bourcier in Le Monde entitled "Ship break of the anti-corruption operation "Lava Jato" in Brazil." The report provides insight into the way in which the Brazilian justice system was manipulated by and served on the US geopolitical agenda, with the criminal and submissive cooperation of officials from the Brazilian public sector, led by Sergio Moro, former judge and justice minister under President Bolsonaro. So what many always suspected is now confirmed, the Brazilian president Dilma Rousseff was deposed by a US-led lawfare coup. Former President Lula da Silva was also imprisoned and prevented from running. This has led directly to the election of Jair Bolsonaro, an incompetent, fascist president who, in my opinion, has cost the Brazilian population dearly during the covid crisis and who has been destructive to the Amazon forest and the indigenous population. In this sense, of course, he has also played a disastrous role in the climate crisis. My questions are therefore obvious, Madam Secretary. Have you taken note of the reportage? Will you raise and condemn the flagrant interference in Brazil's sovereignty in bilateral relations with the US Government? Will you press within the European Union for action against the United States and against Jair Bolsonaro, for his crimes against humanity and his negligence? After all, he failed to take proactive and decisive measures against corona to protect the Brazilian people as he simply denied the covid pandemic. Furthermore, he was guilty of violations of international law and de facto denies the climate crisis that is taking place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u8	Mr De Vuyst, in reply to your first two questions on the US coup d'état in Brazil, I do not think it is appropriate to comment on the basis of a press article. Belgium does not have any elements to enable us to reach the conclusion that you draw. On the third point, I would remind you that Belgium attaches great importance to multilateral diplomacy and uses bilateral relations to express and defend its interests, values and priorities, in particular human rights, international law and climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u9	Madam Minister, thank you for the concise but enlightening answer. In the next presidential elections in Brazil, former President Lula, who has since been acquitted of the allegations of corruption at his address, will hopefully be re-elected. I hope so, at least if democracy can take its course there too. The Brazilian people will undoubtedly remember on which side everyone was on this issue. I would also like to refer to my reply to your answer to my previous question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u10	That was efficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u11	Madam President, Minister, the tensions in Northern Ireland are not new. Unfortunately, they've been around for a long time. In recent weeks, however, they have been revived by the Brexit Agreement and, in particular, by the new trade barrier between Northern Ireland and the United Kingdom. Many people in Northern Ireland see this as an infringement of the connection between Northern Ireland and the United Kingdom. In the Federal Advisory Committee on European Affairs, the British Ambassador visited us not so long ago. I also asked him questions about the issue. I was a little surprised at his answer anyway. He almost accused the existing protocol, although it was also signed by the United Kingdom, as the cause of these tensions. I have come back to this on several occasions and said that the United Kingdom had nevertheless agreed that the solution would be found in this way. They use that protocol as a reason not to keep their own commitments. The three-month grace period, as an extension of the deadline, is now running, but it will, of course, end later. Hopefully a solution will come out of the bus. In my view, the solution is the existing protocol. Apparently, the United Kingdom does not agree. Are you aware of the recent events in Northern Ireland? You will no doubt have taken note of this. The travel advice to Northern Ireland was modified. Was that because of the increasing tensions that are taking place there? Has Belgium responded to these events? What strategy and position does Belgium take in the run-up to the end of that three-month period? That is the grace period by which the so-called sausage war, as it is sometimes called, could be avoided for the time being. Any minor change to the protocol, for example, could put the Good Friday agreement, which is so important for peace between Northern Ireland and Ireland, at odds.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u12	Madam President, Madam Minister, my question is in line with that of Mrs Van Bossuyt. Indeed, following the Brexit agreement, some problems between the European Union and the United Kingdom persist not only on the question of fishing in the English Channel, which you have been asked about on several occasions, but also on the situation at the border with Northern Ireland. On the European Union side, it is understood that the United Kingdom is acting against the protocol and would unilaterally extend the derogations in its favour. Already last March, this action created important agitations. It would also appear that at the end of June London once again intended to unilaterally extend certain deadlines on goods mainly of agricultural origin. Furthermore, it is accused of not having installed physical customs posts and that customs data would therefore not be reported as originally stipulated in the Agreement. Minister, what can you tell us about the current situation? Has any common ground been found or is it on track in the coming weeks? If so, on what points can progress already be made? If not, what actions could be planned in a relatively close timetable since the situation is still embarrassing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u13	Embarrassing but not conclusive! We've got a long way to go. In reply to your question on Northern Ireland and the relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom, I can confirm that we are well aware of the shortcomings in the implementation of customs and other controls laid down in the Northern Ireland Protocol. This is the subject of regular consultations between the European Commission and the EU Member States at various levels. The conclusion of the European Council of June 2021 reiterated the importance of full and effective implementation of the Trade and Cooperation Agreement and the withdrawal agreement, including the Northern Ireland Protocol. Belgium fully endorsed this approach. For their part, the British authorities raise practical difficulties, a political resistance on the part of the Protestant unionist community in Northern Ireland in the implementation of these agreements. This may indeed pose risks to the integrity of the internal market and the customs union of the European Union. Weaknesses in procedures and controls can gradually lead to abuse, especially since the divergence of product standards and tariffs between the European Union and the United Kingdom can encourage smuggling. It may take some time to organize things so as to avoid the negative effects on Northern Ireland's supplies from the British Isles. The United Kingdom can benefit from this time in particular to manage local tensions. But there must be a clear and concrete perspective for full implementation within a reasonable time, and the United Kingdom will have to accept that this requires a sustained effort on the part of all parties involved, including businesses. That's what I said to my colleague when I was on the phone. He himself said he'd invite the ambassador. I said the same thing you did, that there is an agreement. It was hard to reach that agreement. There's been a lot of discussion. And at the end of the ride, everyone signed the deal. Now everyone has to follow it. If there is a need for a little time to formalize it, there is understanding for it, until a certain moment. This concept has been demonstrated by the fact that we give extra months to realize it. But then it has to be fully realized at the end of the ride. In March, the European Commission initiated the procedure by which it failed the United Kingdom. Since then, the Commission has conducted a dialogue with the UK administration with a view to drawing up a concrete action plan to ensure step by step the full and correct implementation of the Protocol. The question of how the UK authorities will evolve towards full and correct implementation is discussed, while at the same time some pressure is being put on these authorities to take on their treaty commitments. That seems to me to be the right approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u14	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I fully agree with you that the full and effective implementation of the agreement, including the Northern Ireland Protocol, should be the objective. That it might take some extra time, okay, but the goal should be the full and effective implementation. Then there are the practical objections raised by the British Ambassador. For example, I remember him talking about a guide dog going from Northern Ireland to the United Kingdom and so on. Okay, but it'll take three months to settle such unforeseens. Of course, in practice, there are sometimes things that could not be predicted, but that should not be a reason to put the entire agreement and protocol on hold, or to go on slippery ice. The dangers to the internal market are certainly not to be underestimated. The single market is the cornerstone of European cooperation and also the cornerstone of our European prosperity. I remember very well that when I was still in the European Parliament, I talked to my British colleagues about this. Some said: we will continue to monitor sanitary and phytosanitary measures for a very long time, as Europe does. I thought it was weird that they said that. We now see that this is actually the case. Even for agreements concluded with mutual consent, it seems difficult to comply with them. We must therefore insist on this point. This is indeed the result of long negotiations. We really need to nurture our internal market in the interests of everyone, both of European citizens and of our European businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answers. I can, of course, follow you. I stress that there must be no doubt about the inclusion of this protocol in relation to the decisions to be taken. The European Union must continue to insist on this in a timely manner. It is about our economic fabric within the European Union and about compliance with the agreements reached and negotiated at length.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u16	Madam President, Madam Minister, recently, the international anti-Islamic coalition met in Rome to discuss the fight against the terrorist organization which is best known for its barbaric attacks in Syria and Iraq but which is now also active on the African continent and for example in Afghanistan. Although it has lost feathers in Syria and Iraq, Daesh has recently proven that it is still extremely dangerous and capable of carrying out targeted attacks. The difficulty is that it has been able to organize itself in a wide network and that it quickly finds sympathizers on the African continent and especially in the areas extremely affected by poverty. Minister, what can you tell us about the recent anti-Islamic summit? Can you also tell us what will be Belgium's involvement in the future fight against the Islamic State, particularly on the African continent? Did the threat of other terrorist organisations also mention the summit?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u17	Mrs Jadin, I actually went to Rome on 28 June to participate in this famous inter-ministerial meeting of the anti-Daesh coalition. I recall that before that, we had a meeting of the small group of states most involved in the fight against Daesh, a group that had been co-chaired by Belgium, so I myself, and Secretary of State Antony Blinken. This was the first time we've seen each other physically in a very long time. Of course, this meeting served to reaffirm and confirm the path that had already been established before. So, first of all, we reaffirmed our collective commitment to the fight against Daesh, particularly in Iraq and Syria. The importance of stabilization too, of support for our Iraqi partners, including in the run-up to the October parliamentary elections, was stressed. Secondly, we unanimously reiterated our concern about the deterioration of the situation in Africa, particularly in the Sahel and West Africa. Belgium has been an active member of the coalition since its inception and, in accordance with our comprehensive and integrated approach, we are involved in its civil and military action. The Department of Foreign Affairs is responsible for Belgian contributions to stabilization in Syria and Iraq. This stabilization is essential to remedy the circumstances that contributed to the advent of Daesh, particularly in terms of the rule of law and resilience. As for the coalition's plans of action on the African continent, they still need to be clarified, it is true. They relate primarily to the exchange of good practices in the fight against Daesh with the affected countries; and the possibilities of contribution in this area, in complementarity with existing arrangements via other channels, will be assessed when the necessary information is available. With regard to your third question, I confirm that Daesh is the only terrorist organization that is being addressed within the coalition, including in the discussions on 28 June. I will end by saying this: we all know that Daesh took, as you said, a big blow, or lost feathers, and we are satisfied with it, but we know that this is not over. This is proof of the threats that have been reported in the Italian press to which our colleague Luigi Di Maio and Italy have been subjected after the organisation of this conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u18	It is I who thank you, Madam Minister, especially since what you have just said in addition to your very comprehensive reply was also the conclusion that I drew from it. Thank you very much for the answer you gave me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u19	Minister, I sit on the Council of Europe and coordinate a report on the rights of LGBTQI people in the South Caucasus. In this context and upon the return of a mission to Georgia, I was led to speak about the Tbilisi Pride, which unfortunately was forced to cancel its march on 5 July in a climate of immeasurable violence. Several media have also given up their visits because of the excessive danger to their operators. I strongly condemn the acts of violence that took place there, targeting in particular the office of the organizers of the LGBTQI awareness week, which was occupied and ransacked. Journalists present at the starting point of the march that should have closed the week were raped. Not only were these journalists attacked and injured, but freedom of the press as a whole was seriously compromised. The perpetrators of the violence have demonstrated their opposition to freedom of expression, opinion and demonstration. Minister, what information do you have from our diplomacy on the spot? Has Belgium positioned itself? If so, what was his message? What is Belgium's position on this matter in the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe? What initiatives will it take in this forum to participate in guaranteeing LGBTQI rights in Georgia?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u20	Madam Minister, Mr Lacroix has outlined the context on which I would also like to put a question. On Monday 5 July 2021 several destructions were made in the office of an Igbtqi organisation in Georgia. Fifty journalists were also attacked. The safety of the Pride participants could no longer be guaranteed. That's why the organization decided to cancel the event. The authorities do promise to investigate the attack on the Igbtqi office and have already condemned any form of violence and hate speech, but the organizers of the Pride do not feel supported by the government and speak of a pogrom. There is a suspicion that there are ultra-nationalists behind the attacks. One of the attacked journalists died after the attack. Yesterday Monday 12 July 2021, more than 8,000 people were on the streets, asking for the resignation of the Prime Minister of Georgia. The attack on the organisers of the Pride and the journalists cuts through the heart of a deep geopolitical fault line that could determine the future of the country. It will be a kind of geopolitical symbol for the collision between Russia and the West. The coalition agreement states that Belgium will play an international leading role in a number of issues, including lgbtqi rights. I have a few questions which are in line with those of my colleague. Our country, together with a number of other European countries, has already condemned the attacks through the Honorary Consulate in Georgia. Have you spoken to the Georgian Ambassador about the incidents of 5 July 2021? Through the Association Council, the EU and Georgia want to strengthen their links. When will the next meeting of the Association Council take place and the threat to journalists and Igbtqi persons will be on the agenda? The European Union will support certain organisations that stand up for the rule of law in Member States of Poland and Hungary, but are there similar initiatives for neighbouring countries, as in Georgia?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u21	Madam President, Mr Lacroix, in response to your question on the rights of LGBTQI people in the South Caucasus, I would like to say first of all that the fight against discrimination in general, and those based on sexual orientation and gender identity in particular, is a priority of Belgian foreign policy on human rights – I think you have understood that. That is why we are following closely the situation in Georgia. Despite increased cooperation with the European Union and the entry into force of an anti-discrimination law in 2014, problems persist in Georgia regarding the rights of the LGBTQI community. The perception of society is strongly fuelled by the views of the Orthodox Church; therefore, the open expression of homosexuality does not seem to be tolerated by large sections of the population. The annual Pride Week was scheduled to be held in Tbilisi from 1 to 5 July. It had to be cancelled in extremis due to violence by counter-demonstrators; many journalists and pride participants had been attacked, injured, and an LGBTQI community office had been ransacked. Prior to the event, our diplomatic post joined, in support, a statement made at the initiative of the United Nations representation in Georgia. The statement called on the Georgian government to protect the participants in the Pride. Following the violent incidents, a statement by the European delegation in Tbilisi and also co-signed by Belgium strongly condemned the attacks, but also the lack of immediate condemnation by the government and the religious authorities. President Salome Zourabichvili condemned these incidents the same day, while Prime Minister Irakli Garibachvili called them unacceptable the next day. While the Georgian patriarch condemned the violence, the official communiqué nevertheless added that responsibility for the incidents must be placed first among the organizers of the march (pride). The content of this European Union declaration was repeated at the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on 7 July. I would like to stress that Belgium aims to strengthen the action of the Council of Europe in the fight for LGBTQI rights. Following the joint declaration of 18 EU Member States in response to the approval of legislation against LGBTQI in Hungary, Belgium, together with its Benelux partners, sent a letter to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, which is invited to call on all Council of Europe Member States to comply with their obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights. Furthermore, Belgium is working for appropriate funding of the Secretariat's Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Unit and for the creation of an LGBTQI working group within the Steering Committee on Anti-Discrimination, Diversity and Inclusion under the Committee of Ministers. I remain particularly attentive to these issues, as I have been able to assure you in plenary and committee over the last few weeks. Mrs Reynaert, I can tell you that my services had a meeting with the Georgian ambassador in Brussels on 9 July. On that occasion they expressed the great concern of Belgium about the events of last week in Tbilisi and asked the Ambassador for an explanation. The latter claimed that the Georgian government was surprised by the extent of the violence and by the aggressiveness of the attackers, after the first two days of the festival had expired without incident. The ambassador explained that there was nothing spontaneous about the coordinated attacks. The perpetrators of violence were identified as belonging to extreme right-wing groups and a hundred arrests would have been made by now. It is not yet known when the next EU-Georgia Association Council will meet. It is still too early to decide on the agenda. But it is clear that human rights and the fight against discrimination, including on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity, deserve a place there. The most recent meeting of the Association Council took place on 16 March this year. It reiterated the EU's readiness to support the national Georgian human rights strategy 2021-2030 and called on Georgia to implement anti-discrimination laws effectively and to ensure the rights of Igbtqi individuals, including the right to freedom of association. As far as the question of support for organisations is concerned, there is in principle a positive response. In November 2020, the European Commission proposed a strategy for equality between Igbtqi individuals, including a call for global equality between Igbtqi individuals. The European Commission and the European External Action Service (EEAS) undertake to protect them and assert their rights. The strategy stipulates that Igbtqi issues are an integral part of the Union's external relations, which is reflected in the political dialogue under the Association Agreement. It also stipulates that local civil society organisations committed to promoting and protecting the rights of Igbtqi individuals will be supported by EU funding. The Action Plan on Human Rights and Democracy 2020-2024 confirms the EU commitment to combat discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u22	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I would also like to thank my colleague, Vicky Reynaert, for considering points of view that I did not express. Our diplomats on the spot gave you an excellent report. Indeed, I was there until the 3rd of July. In particular, I had to go to one of the Pride Week events with the Secretary of the Commission on Equality and Non-Discrimination of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Five minutes before arriving, we received a telephone call from the Council of Europe informing us that we had to turn around because our security could no longer be assured. There were indeed hundreds of violent counter-demonstrators who targeted mainly Western people or personalities, according to them, symbols of decadence. At that time, I thought that there was a serious problem for us, but only for a few hours or a few days. The LGBTQI in Georgia, on the other hand, must be subjected to daily harassment and totally inhuman harassment. You take up the role of the Orthodox Church. I share your view on this. Indeed, when I was there, the Patriarch of the Orthodox Church declared that the march of pride was to legalize sin. The Orthodox Church, which is still very prominent in Georgian society, does nothing to appease, discuss and open a dialogue. The extreme nationalist, even pro-Russian right – but I have no proof to confirm it – plays a decisive role. The Georgian authorities are not always on the same page or, in any case, change their speeches, probably opportunely, depending on the moment. You noted the statement of the President of Georgia. But this statement was made as part of a visit to President Macron, knowing that the country is in the election campaign. As you said, together with the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, and alongside what the European Union is doing, all training support programmes (training of police officers, judges, prosecutors, but also sex education in school education) must be given priority. In this respect, we can play an important role. I thank you once again for your struggle in this area, which has no criticism whatsoever. You're constant. If perfection does not exist in this world, minister, on this point, you are excellent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u23	Madam Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer to my questions, which were complementary to Mr Lacroix's questions. Georgia is a young democracy that sought far-reaching Euro-Atlantic integration a few years ago, but I fear that this young democracy is currently being overturned, even under the eye of the European Union. At the beginning of this year, we saw an enormous political crisis following the arrest and detention by the government of an opposition leader, and after the violence against politicians, we now also see violence on Pride organizers and against journalists. It is important that the European Union does not leave Georgia in the cold, because if democracy comes under pressure, we must do our best to keep that country on the right side of the faultline by providing support wherever possible and, if possible, strengthening its links, with respect for human rights, as the European Union puts it in its strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u24	Madam Minister, I have already asked you a question on this subject in this committee. The resolution adopted by the Chamber on 29 April 2021 calls on the Government to continue to support and facilitate the case brought by Gambia before the International Court of Justice against Myanmar and thus to join the initiative of the Netherlands and Canada in accordance with Article 63 of the Statute. In other words, the question is therefore to intervene on the part of the Gambia during the procedure. You replied to my previous question that our country is following closely the case that Gambia has initiated and that Belgium is also in contact with the Netherlands and Canada. Will Belgium, in accordance with Article 63 of the Statute of the International Court of Justice, join the initiative of the Netherlands and Canada? In other words, will our country, like the Netherlands and Canada, intervene on the part of the Gambia in this procedure, as requested in the resolution? If this is not the case, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u25	Madam Minister, I too have a question about Myanmar and the current political situation, which is still worrying. As already mentioned, 25 deaths occurred on 4 July 2021, bringing the total number to 890. In addition, 6,100 people were locked up and 200,000 were internally displaced. On 21 June, a third series of sanctions was announced by the European Union in respect of 43 persons and 6 entities. Last week I had the opportunity to receive a number of people from a large trade union organization who are in exile because she does not get a passport to return to Myanmar. Of course, they are in contact with their families, trade unionists and NGOs on the ground. So the situation is indeed worrying. Their question is why EU sanctions are limited to those 6 entities. Some companies in the energy sector are state-owned companies, such as Myanmar Oil and Gas Enterprise, which are now out of the question. That way, the junta still has revenue. We are therefore wondering why these sanctions cannot be extended to the energy sector. What has our country done to extend these sanctions? Secondly, they also call for more extensive economic sanctions, to wipe out the junta's revenue sources, and for the withdrawal of Myanmar's EBA status. They still have a privileged status, but they say that democracy and freedom prevail. In this way, the people will suffer, but they prefer to get their democracy and freedom back, while economically for a short time the hand is kept on the cut. Thirdly, a vote may take place in September at the General Assembly on the representation of the junta in international organizations. What is Belgium's position on this? Will our country contact the government of national unity? Will our country recognise this government and promote recognition in the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u26	Madam President, of course we will continue to follow closely the case pending before the International Court of Justice. The procedure is currently at the preliminary stage of the plea, which therefore relates to jurisdiction and admissibility. At this stage, the question of the interpretation of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide has not yet been examined. In fact, Myanmar's submission of preliminary objections has suspended the substantive procedure. We will consider the possibility of intervention under Article 63 of the Statute of the Court when the Registrar, acting on instructions from the Court, informs the States Parties to the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide of this possibility. Then we should have a clearer picture of the interpretation issues that the court will deal with. In addition, we continue to call on the various stakeholders to resolve this crisis quickly. It is essential to be able to respond immediately to the concrete problems on the ground, in particular as regards access to humanitarian aid. Indeed, on 21 June, the EU Foreign Affairs Council adopted a third sanction package on Myanmar. Four companies from the jewellery and gold sector and eight natural persons, who are high representatives of the junta, were added to the list. In total, the already existing coup sanctions include 49 names on the penalty list, including six companies operating in different sectors. Their funds are frozen and they are subject to an entry ban and a ban on making economic resources available. Belgium supports this action and sees it not as an end in itself, but as part of a broader EU policy to improve the situation in Myanmar. If the situation so requires, additional sanctions may be considered at a later stage. At present, however, there is no concrete proposal for this, since the previous round of sanctions only took place three weeks ago. More comprehensive measures, such as sectoral economic sanctions or the withdrawal of Myanmar's Everything But Arms status, may be an option, but such measures risk taking the ordinary population, which our country wants to avoid. In addition, the current sanctions against companies are already aimed at draining the income flow of the junta. The implementation of the sanctions is not my responsibility, but mainly that of the FPS Finance. The FPS closely monitors the financial compliance with all sanctions. Moreover, economic contacts between Belgium and Myanmar are very limited. The general principle is that Belgium recognises states and not institutions or governments. Belgium opposes the international recognition of the military junta. However, our country, together with the EU, is aiming for dialogue with all those involved, both the junta and the democratic forces, in order to find a democratic way out of the crisis as soon as possible. To sum up, sanctions are always difficult, because one has to strike a good balance between creating leverage in order to achieve a change in behaviour and exerting sufficient pressure. Taking into account that a sanction cannot be an end in itself, it is also necessary to have other levels of sanctions. I have checked which countries have been sanctioned by Belgium and there are a suit, a pack of countries and a pack of sanctions. I am not convinced that sanctions are a miracle tool, but it is one of our tools and we are obliged to use them. I wanted to make that point because sanctions concern not only Myanmar but also other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u27	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I am pleased to hear that Belgium is seriously considering entering the proceedings before the International Court of Justice. I think it is important that Belgium also takes steps in this matter. We have regular discussions here about genocide and Parliament must therefore qualify the risk of genocide. The position of the government is sometimes different from that of Parliament, because we can give a political signal. The genocide on the Rohingya was investigated very thoroughly. We have an independent UN report that shows that there is a five-fold intention to eradicate the Rohingya. The decision of the International Court of Justice also states that there is a significant risk of genocide on the Rohingya. Belgium has always been a pioneer in the fight against human rights violations. We are talking here about human rights violations of the worst kind, particularly genocide, which was also proved in a UN report. For Belgium, the International Court of Justice plays a very important role in the pursuit of accountability to international law. These are two elements on which Belgium is always hammering. If Belgium does not intervene legally, when will it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u28	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I agree with you, sanctions are not an obvious means, but there are not so many means of exerting pressure. I have never been in favour of stopping development cooperation, because that would affect the population. By the way, we do not have development cooperation with Myanmar today. Economic sanctions, on the other hand, affect the regime. So that is what people are sensitive about. The danger is that their reaction can become even more acute if they are isolated. I realize the balance is hard to find. The people themselves say that there is no greater danger to their lives than the military junta and they ask to hit them in particular. The fact that one is enriched with the raw materials in the country is also a thorn in the eye. Of course, the population prefers to impose sanctions on the regime rather than on the population. I am pleased to hear you say that this should be reviewed regularly. After all, it's all very recent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u29	Madam President, Madam Minister, when Alexander Lukashenko's regime hijacked an aircraft a few weeks ago in order to apprehend one of his opponents and his wife, there was rightly a lot of reaction from the international community and various economic sanctions were imposed against the regime. In response to these sanctions, Belarus is now sending mass migrants to Lithuania and through Lithuania to the European Union. I saw numbers this morning. By 2020, it was 74 people, while it would already be 1,714. It is quite clear that this is not a natural stream. Moreover, it concerns both people from the Middle East and from Africa. Also Lukashenko would lure them by saying that they do not need a visa to come to Belarus, but that they can get a vaccine here We can ask ourselves questions. It is almost about actively recruiting migrants to put pressure on the European Union in this way. I have just read a statement from Lukashenko saying that they are not stopping anyone, because, in the end, Belarus is not their final destination, but that they are on their way to enlightened, warm and cosy Europe. We may be proud that we are an enlightened, warm and cosy Europe, but he will see that differently and he will certainly mean that ironically. I almost think that's challenging. Lithuania has already declared a state of emergency because of this situation at its borders. In the meantime, I have also read that High Representative Borrell has already said that more people and resources would be sent from Frontex to the border between Belarus and Lithuania and that a military barrier would be created. We have also seen that Belarus has deported two Lithuanian top diplomats, sending a symbolic signal that the country is not open to a diplomatic solution. What is the position of Belgium and of you on this situation? Have you contacted the Belarusian ambassador yet? Do you recognise that these events are a direct consequence of the pressure that Russia also wants to put on the EU? When people say Lukashenko, they actually say Putin, so there is a link with Russia. Finally, what has been said about this at European level? I know that a European Council of Foreign Ministers has already taken place this week. I would therefore like to hear what was decided on the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u30	Madam President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, I would first like to clarify a few points. However, you have already been able to raise a few figures. Between 1 January 2021 and 4 July 2021, 1,232 people crossed the border between Belarus and Lithuania illegally. By comparison, by 2020, there were 74 for the whole year, as you have given us. In 2019 they were 37 people. Most arrivals in 2021, i.e. until 4 July 2021, concern nationals of Iraq with 485 persons, Iran with 57 persons, Syria with 52 persons, Belarus with 46 persons and Russia with 28 persons. More than 400 migrants have not been identified. On 2 July 2021, Lithuania declared a state of emergency, allowing additional support, facilitating public procurement procedures and requiring municipalities to provide reception. The President of the European Council, Charles Michel, visited the Padvarionys border crossing on 6 July 2021. Charles Michel expressed the support and solidarity of the European Union with Lithuania. Sixteen Frontex officials are currently deployed in Lithuania and Latvia. In the week of 12 July 2021, five more will be added. The call for 30 Frontex border guards has already been partially filled by the Member States. Lithuania has requested assistance from EASO or the European Asylum Support Office, including in the areas of asylum file handling, training, reception support, translation and other expertise. An EASO team visited the location to assess the needs. The European Commission is currently considering how to mobilise financial instruments in the very short term under the EU Justice and Home Affairs Policy, including the Civil Protection Mechanism. Lithuania is calling for an EU response, which is fully supportive of Belgium. The call for European aid was explicitly repeated by Lithuania under the item current affairs at the European Foreign Affairs Council of 12 July 2021. All Member States are indeed united. It has not yet been proven whether Lukashenko is using migrants to put pressure on the EU. I'm not saying we have no idea about this, I'm just saying it hasn't been proven yet. In other words, they are persons of dual nationality, for example, who, as a result of the situation in Belarus, wish to flee the country. Lukashenko's actions are not an act of aggression in terms of the UN Charter. Whether there is interference from Russia, as you ask, cannot be established at the moment. Interviews with asylum seekers will prove that in the long term. With regard to diplomatic deportations, the Lithuanian government accredits opposition figure Svetlana Tichanovskaya as the official representative of the Belarusian democratic movement in Lithuania. Minsk indeed responded by rejecting Lithuanian diplomats on 6 July. This decision by the Belarusian regime is yet another proof that the country closes diplomatic channels of communication with the EU countries, as the EU spokesperson also stated in a statement. On 1 July, the Head of the EU Delegation in Minsk also had to leave Belarus and the Belarusian regime decided to recall the Permanent Representative of Belarus to the EU for consultation. This person is also the bilateral ambassador of Belarus to Belgium, so contacts with him on the migration influx in Lithuania have not taken place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u31	Madam Minister, perhaps first as far as the ambassador's departure is concerned, it will of course be very difficult if he is also our contact person in the country. So we're gonna have to follow it up. The figures you mentioned also mention the nationality of the persons. I did not, however, mean people of African origin, whereas the figures or data I have read this morning come from a fairly reliable source of information. You mentioned as much as 400 unidentified people, maybe those people are underneath? You nod, so that will probably be the case. The extra commitment of Frontex is certainly a start, and something to help Lithuania. You state the commitment of financial instruments. I can't imagine that right away, so I might ask a question later on about what is specifically meant by that. The explicit solidarity with Lithuania that was expressed at the Council yesterday is certainly a good signal. Because if we have to avoid one thing, it is to show a weak Europe. I believe that we must make it clear that we, as the European Union, must not allow ourselves to be abused in the lowest possible way, namely by using people as a means of blackmail. As you say, we do not yet have any concrete evidence that this is a conscious action by Lukashenko, but the figures speak for themselves. It is difficult to describe it differently than the trafficking of human beings by a regime. We must certainly remain very attentive to this and to Russia's role in it. And then we have to look at how we can get on with it, first and foremost to protect those people themselves, who may be lured by false promises, but certainly not to let us as a European Union be put under pressure in this low way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u32	Madam President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, there was indeed a second incident on 5 July involving the Belgian Ambassador's wife in the Republic of Korea. The circumstances are not entirely clear. After the first incident with two employees of a clothing store, it was already agreed that the ambassador would return to Belgium with his wife this month. In view of the second incident, the responsibility of an ambassador and our relationship with the Republic of Korea, there was no alternative but to have the ambassador and his wife return to Belgium immediately. Of course, we informed the Korean authorities very quickly. In the coming weeks and months, we will strengthen our relations with the Republic of Korea. The celebration of 120 years of diplomatic relations between the two countries is an important moment in this respect. I met my South Korean colleague and discussed the first incident with her. For her, that was a very sensitive and difficult situation. It was very clear that this is not the picture of the relationship between our two countries. I am very grateful to her for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u33	Madam President, Madam Minister, thank you for being so brief on the ball. I hope that Belgium's good relations with South Korea will not be affected in any way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u34	Madam President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, I note with you that there are tensions between the Chinese government and certain Chinese technology companies. However, this test of strength is not new and is consistent with a high degree of public intervention and control of the economy. Just think of the growing role of the Chinese Communist Party's party cells in companies active in China and the reporting obligations in that context. This evolution is also not entirely separate from the geopolitical tension between the US and China. The timing between the Wall Street Stock Exchange of leading Chinese players and the announced measures on privacy rules is indeed striking. As you know, Belgium attaches great importance to the correct application of European privacy law, the famous GDPR, which is fully applicable to Belgian, European and non-European companies. Chinese companies active in the territory of the EU are also bound to do so. My services will continue to follow this issue with due attention. For more information about the possible consequences of the GDPR, I invite you to also contact the Secretary of State responsible for Privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u35	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. With regard to GDPR and the protection of privacy of personal data, we are ahead in Europe. We therefore need to avoid that privacy is affected by illegal practices or espionage practices, or whatever they are to be called, that China is applying. We see Chinese influence increasing in many ways. We must certainly have an eye for this, and we must not underestimate it. The cyberworld is a world in itself. It is also very difficult to make legislation future proof, because once the legislation is in place, there are new ways of circumventing it. We therefore need to keep our finger on the pulse very carefully in order to prevent crucial data from getting into the wrong hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u36	Madam President, Madam Minister, this question is about the co-vid certificate. I am one of the lucky ones who already has the certificate, as many have. I must confess that I am very much looking forward to taking advantage of it and finally finding other places this summer. Especially with the weather we have here, I really long for the sun. It is a follow-up request on the possible recognition of the certificate by third countries. I am thinking primarily of the United Kingdom and the United States. We have already talked about the United Kingdom. The importance of the UK authorities' recognition of the co-vid certificate is not to be underestimated, especially for our companies What is the state of play in the negotiations on the UK's possible recognition of the co-vid certificate? The United States too is important, not least from an economic point of view. What is the state of play for the United States? In response to an earlier question I asked, you pointed out that a working group had been set up from 15 June 2021, which discussed the possibility of recognition. Has the working group met in the meantime? What is the state of play on the possible recognition of the covid certificate by the U.S. government?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u37	Mrs. Van Bossuyt, I understand perfectly what you're saying about the weather. The grass here is greener than anywhere else, that's something. I would advise you to check the local sanitary situation before you leave, because it's going very fast. The Commission is indeed in talks with some 35 countries for the mutual recognition of the vaccination certificate. It is mainly the Western Balkan countries, countries close to the European Union as well as the United States and the United Kingdom. The Commission's equivalence decisions are expected in the coming weeks; I agree with you, preferably as soon as possible. Otherwise, I don't have much information, because we're waiting for those decisions. Of course, we are in favour of as broad a harmonised document as possible, because the conditions are already difficult enough without having to travel with different documents. The rules on the ground, I repeat, also within Europe, change from one country to another, but also over time. Look at what happened in France yesterday. You must be aware that it is not going to be a simple story this summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u38	Madam Minister, I think that everyone who has planned a holiday should indeed follow everything closely and take responsibility for it. As far as the weather is concerned, I am a little reassured. I got a message from my sister who's been living in Perth for 15 years. It is also incredibly raining, with that difference that it is winter there; but even that is exceptional. So the forwarded photos made me less jealous than usual. As far as the recognition of the co-vid certificate by third countries is concerned, as soon as possible, indeed. I think we all agree on that for all kinds of different reasons. We're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u39	Thank you. We let the sun shine in our hearts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u40	Madam Minister, the Spanish Court of Auditors launched an investigation into Catalan foreign policy in December 2017 since 2011. All expenditure by the regional government which could somehow be linked to the promotion of Catalan foreign independence was examined. In a first report, the Court saw so-called irregularities worth EUR 416 million. A claim was filed against 41 Catalan suspects. The suspects are all ex-members of the Catalan government. Although the Court of Auditors is not a court of law, it is nevertheless possible to impose a million-dollar claim on political opponents without trial. It is reported that only deposits of between EUR 5 million and EUR 25 million remain. It goes without saying that the defendants will be financially ruined. Madam Secretary, are you aware of the facts? Are they not yet another intimidation of the Spanish regime towards Catalan regionalism? An example of charges is about Regional Prime Minister Artur Mas, who was with a trade delegation in the United States in 2014. On the spot, journalists asked about the plans for a referendum and the Spanish resistance against it. Artur Mas said: "If they deny us the right to vote, we have a conflict, a civilized conflict, in which we must all express our respect." The Court accordingly concluded that the expenditure of the Mas trip and that of the entire Catalan trade delegation to the United States were fraudulent. Do you not consider such an interpretation by the Spanish Court of Auditors to be an attack on freedom of expression? Do you intend to raise the matter with the Spanish ambassador?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u41	Mrs Samyn, I have taken note of the matter to which you refer. Under the Spanish Constitution, the Court of Auditors of the Tribunal de Cuentas is responsible for controlling the economic and financial activities of the public sector at state level and at regional and local level. It is therefore a matter of public expenditure from another state and its control by the internal bodies of that State in accordance with its Constitution and the rule of law. So it is not for me to comment on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u42	Madam Secretary, when it comes to Catalonia, the Spanish authorities are inclined to go back for nothing and use all the means available, including financial resources. The repression of Spain against Catalan regionalism is now taking on other forms. After the intimidation and prison sentences Spain tries to break Catalans in a different, devious way in the form of towering fines. The painful thing in the whole situation is that Belgium and enlargement continue to look the other way. Although the same EU is ticking on Eastern European countries, it still seems to have blinkers when it comes to the Catalan issue. My respect goes out to the courageous Catalan people, who, despite all the setbacks, continue to fight for their independence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u43	Madam President, Minister, Haitian President Jovenel Moïse was murdered in his house on Wednesday morning 7 July 2021 by a group of heavily armed men. Haiti has been at a political impasse since early 2021. The murder threatens to destabilise the country even more than it already was. Acting Prime Minister Claude Joseph has meanwhile declared martial law. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions for you. Do you have a look at the number of countrymen in Haiti? Can their safety be guaranteed? Is there any thought about the possibility of repatriating fellow countrymen? Has the current situation in Haiti already been discussed at international level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u44	Madam President, Mrs Samyn, according to our embassy in Havana there are about 105 Belgians in Haiti. So far, however, we have not received any specific request for assistance. At the moment, evacuation is not on the agenda. However, it is recommended that our compatriots remain vigilant and take the necessary precautions. My services closely monitor the situation in close cooperation with the Belgian Embassy in Havana and the Honorary Consul in Port-au-Prince. As regards the international response, a closed session was held in the United Nations Security Council on 7 July 2021. Haiti is also on the agenda of the next EU Council working group Colac. At the moment, the situation in Haiti is relatively calm. It is essential that it stays that way. Research into the circumstances and responsibilities of recent events must be conducted in an objective and serene manner. Justice has to do its job. The solution to the deadlock is primarily the responsibility of the Haitian authorities and the members of the opposition. It is up to them to create a climate of trust, to establish a respectful dialogue and to define concrete measures for the future. The priority is to start dialogue with the opposition so that a transitional government can be formed that can organise elections in the autumn. In 2019, the transition took place from the United Nations Peace Mission Mission for Justice Support in Haiti to the special political mission United Nations Integrated Office in Haiti. In line with the attitude of our country during its past mandate in the UN Security Council, Belgium is in favour of providing that existing mission with sufficient staff and resources to ensure maximum continuity in the transmission phase. Belgium also calls on BINUH to cooperate with international actors, such as the European Union. The mandate of the BINUH runs until mid-October 2021. It is premature at this stage to talk about the creation of a new UN peacekeeping mission. Belgium will continue to monitor closely the handling of the dossier by the UN Security Council. Belgium insists on free, fair, transparent and inclusive elections. The European Union and its Member States, including Belgium, will continue to support the restoration of the political situation for the well-being of all Haitian citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u45	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. As far as our fellow countrymen are concerned, I recall from your reply that the matter is being closely monitored. For years, Haiti has been suffering from poverty, violence and political instability. There is no doubt that the latest events have only plunged Haiti deeper into chaos. The Haitian government has for years failed to provide peace, security and prosperity. The country was and is in fact ruled by criminal gangs. It is therefore disappointing that international support resources always fall into the wrong hands, while 80% of Haitians live below the poverty line. I therefore hope, together with you, that there will soon be a solution to the deadlock in Haiti and that fair and transparent elections will be at the top of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u46	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Haiti is a country that never gets out of the problem circle of violence, poverty and the chaos associated with it. We can regret this, especially for the people in need who are dominated by criminal gangs. The country is characterised by a democratic deficit in various areas, at government level and at parliamentary level. It is good that we keep an eye on the situation and support for law enforcement, the MINUJUSTH. It may be able to provide some protection for the population. I hope that the next Security Council will take a number of decisions, both in the humanitarian and security fields.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u47	(...) it is a matter of respect for Parliament and the ministers who are moving. And then we can learn interesting things. Minister, my question is a continuation of the one I asked the Prime Minister when he came to outline the meeting of Heads of State and Government, as we do every time. Moreover, a more general question arises: instead of asking a whole series of questions, would it not be wise to systematically organise a briefing and debriefing on these meetings? It was mentioned at some point. On the margins of this meeting, you met with the Israeli Foreign Minister. This seemed somewhat unbalanced, as it was not possible to read the Palestinian point of view. We would like to see to what extent commitments have been made by the European Union to launch a dialogue with this new government whose intentions we do not yet know and which will bring us good or bad surprises. Has the question of a balance with the Palestinian interlocutors been addressed? We must not give the impression of favouring one or the other. Otherwise, we will never find a balanced solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u48	Madam Minister, I agree with Mr Flahaut's very interesting question. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that on 7 July, for the seventh time in a year, the Israeli army demolished the residences of the Palestinian shepherd community of Humsa-Al Bqai'a in the Jordan Valley. Thirty structures were destroyed or seized, including housing units and animal shelters. Seventeen of those structures were provided as a humanitarian response to the last demolition incident in February 2021, with a total of 55 structures being demolished or seized. As a result, six Palestinian families, consisting of 42 persons, including 24 children, have been made homeless again with an increased risk of forced transfer. Mobile water tankers, animal drinking troughs, food, baby milk, clothing, hygienic material and toys were also seized. Israel alone destroyed or seized 421 Palestinian structures in the West Bank in the first half of this year, including 130 structures donated by donors such as the European Union. At a session of the UN Human Rights Council on 9 July, Michael Lynk, the UN Special Rapporteur for Human Rights in the Occupied Palestinian Territories, stated that the 300 Israeli colonies with their 680,000 settlers in East Jerusalem and on the West Bank fulfilled the definition of war crimes under the Rome Statute, which forms the basis of the International Criminal Court. Mr Lynk added that the international community must and will ensure that Israel pays a price for its contempt for international law and global public opinion. He mentioned the demolition of the Bedouin village two days earlier, where Israel left the inhabitants without shelter, food or water in the summer heat of the Jordan Valley, both illegal and heartless. He also mentioned the continued seizure of Palestinian territory and the protection of the colonies a further consolidation of Israel's de facto annexation of the West Bank. The session of the Human Rights Council was boycotted by Israel itself, which refused to recognise both the mandate of the Special Rapporteur and the International Criminal Court. My question will not surprise you, Madam Secretary. When will the Belgian Government exceed the level of rhetorical convictions and finally work on sanctions? You have just said that many sanctions have been imposed by Belgium against many countries around the world, but apparently no sanctions are being imposed against the de facto annexation of this apartheid colony.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u49	Madam Minister, I also agree with the previous speakers and refer to the facts cited by Mr Flahaut, in particular to the meeting with Mr Lapid yesterday 12 July 2021 at the Foreign Affairs Council, and to the colonisation policy to which Mr De Vuyst referred. This continues tirelessly, especially in East Jerusalem, with the destruction of houses and shops in Silwan. On 2 August 2021, the Israeli Supreme Court was to rule on the expulsions. Then there is the report on the human rights situation in occupied Palestinian territory, which speaks for itself. It makes it very clear that very few steps are being taken to enforce international law. The rapporteur calls for Israel to dismantle the settlements and develop a comprehensive menu of accountability to enforce them. My questions are identical to those of my colleagues. What further action will Belgium take on the roadmap of the countermeasures? Have any steps been taken towards similar Member States? As far as the differentiation policy notes are concerned, what timing does the Minister envisage to be able to take action on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u50	With regard to imbalances, I can tell you that I have met my Palestinian counterpart, but I have never met my Israeli counterpart. Here it is a matter of timing since it is a new Israeli government and our Palestinian colleague has been invited on other occasions. Mr Flahaut, we must always pay close attention to the messages that are sent. I will therefore make sure to check the last times that both have been invited, but I think that we are in a desirable balance. Two important meetings took place yesterday at European level and today, since I also saw my Egyptian counterpart this morning. I'll come back. With regard to the preparatory luncheon session with the Israeli Foreign Minister, Mr Borrell pleaded for an association council with Israel. It was pointed out, however, that common messages should be defined by the Association Council and, as far as our country is concerned, the European Union's consultation with Israel and the Palestinian Authority should be part of a well-thought-out European strategy towards the parties to the conflict. It is also a matter for the European Union to engage with this new Government on the Middle East peace process, including through its Special Representative. The European Union must defend its constant position based on international law, including the UN consensus on settlements. In this context, HR/VP explicitly mentioned the recent demolitions in Humsa Al-Bqai'a. Belgium called for a more active role for the European Union in support of the PPMO, thereby supporting the whole of EU Approach and advocating for the identification of incentives and dissuasive measures vis-à-vis both parties to push them on the path of dialogue. That is the point about the preparation of the discussion. During lunch with Minister Lapid, I welcomed, among other things, his desire to engage in a constructive dialogue with the EU. Our country has also pointed out the need to refrain from unilateral action that undermines the two-state solution. I also called for respect for international law and international humanitarian law to end occupation and colonisation, including in East Jerusalem. The recent destruction and confiscation of property, the victims of which were Palestinian families in Humsa-Al Bqai'a, were explicitly condemned. Israel's security is inextricably linked to a just solution to the conflict. The Israeli Foreign Minister Lapid's attitude was that his country can support anything that contributes to the peace and prosperity of the Palestinians and the wider environment, insofar as it does not prejudice Israel's right to defend itself. A concrete answer on how Israel is engaged in negotiations with the Palestinians could not yet be communicated, as the new government has only been in office for a month, it sounded. As regards your question about the development of our differentiation policy, Mrs Van Hoof, I can tell you that a letter was sent by my department to the other federal administrations following an inter-kabinets working group on 26 May 2021. It asked the FPS to review the application of the differentiation policy in their policy area. Once these data have been processed, a new technical working group will follow to discuss the results. During this working group we will also discuss the application of differentiation policies in like-minded countries, which I have had requested through our diplomatic network. As far as Mr De Vuyst's question is concerned, diplomacy is far more than rhetorical condemnations. I can assure you that Belgian diplomacy is active in many areas, particularly in relation to the problems of destruction which are contrary to international humanitarian law and in particular to the Fourth Geneva Convention. While the Israeli army was in the process of dismantling and confiscating the infrastructure in Humsa-Al Bqai'a, Belgium, together with five other diplomatic missions, participated in the OCHA's on-site visit with the Westbank Protection Consortium. During the entire demolition operation, the Israeli troops refused to grant access to this mission. They declared the area a military zone. They also prevented the delivery of essential materials and aid by humanitarian partners. Diplomacy is also the expression of our political views through concrete actions in the field. During the informal exchange of views with Minister Lapid yesterday, I condemned this destruction and the obstruction of humanitarian access, which we witnessed last week in Humsa-Al Bqai'a. Minister Lapid replied that it was a training ground and that the affected families were offered an alternative residence, which was refused. More generally, Belgium, together with other Member States at European Union level, is calling for an evaluation of relations in the EU with Israel and the Palestinian Authority, in order to identify the levers we have to encourage both sides to engage in a political process. This requires consultation with other Member States and dialogue with the High Representative of the European Union and his services. Only if we act together can we strengthen the effectiveness of our message. Mrs Van Hoof, I can assure you that I am testing the idea of an evaluation of the EU's relations with Israel and the Palestinian Authority in all my bilateral contacts with the foreign ministers of the EU Member States. So far I have not collided with a categorical no, quite the contrary. Everyone seems to realize that the status quo is untenable. When I say everybody, I mean almost everyone, because I haven't had the opportunity to talk to everyone. We do know that some Member States are struggling with this. Yesterday I had a bilateral meeting with my Dutch colleague Kaag, who is also a member of the Benelux. We know that this is an important dossier for the three countries. My Luxembourg colleague Jean Asselborn is also involved in this. We are convinced that we can do something together if nothing happens at the level of the 27 Member States. I do not mean this as a reproach, but you must also understand that such matters require time to be organized. We must give Mr Borrell time to respond positively to my question. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is being raised on many occasions during discussions with Minister Lapid, with my Tunisian colleague, with Mr Borrell, and each time I ask the same question: incentives and incentives for both parties to set them on the road to long-term peace. Of course, that remains a difficult story. Mr Moutquin, in reply to your question on the United Nations database on enterprises active in Israeli settlements, I would like first of all to point out that, in principle, Belgium has no objection to the updating of this database. I also took note of the statement of the Palestinians in Geneva at the recent session of the Human Rights Council requesting an update. This national declaration is not an initiative supported by the Council. To date, no initiative has been taken in this regard in line with the High Commissioner's recommendations. I think I've answered all your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u51	Minister, may there be no contempt, I did not question action on a bilateral basis. You mentioned all the initiatives you were taking with your Benelux colleagues as well as with Mr Borrell. I hear your initiatives and the pressure you are holding on to, and that's how it is, but when you hear the Israeli minister's speech, there are not many things that change. We can do whatever we want, whatever we can, provided we do not endanger Israel's interests. Maybe he's too new on the mission? Perhaps the new Israeli president has not yet been able to take a series of marks to alter Israel's very closed position in this situation. You answered my question because, in the end, it is Europe's attitude that is at stake. Is it possible to have a common vision of 27? No, I don't think so. What is the attitude of the Netherlands in particular, Germany and other countries? Isn't the solution precisely to play the small engine of Benelux? If we can do this with Luxembourg because the Dutch have more reservations, we must do so. We must be able at some point to give the High Representative the means to act so that Europe can be present with some sort of force and respect and not only play in the Reservists' camp. That's my concern. I believe that putting the item on the agenda of such meetings is important as well as keeping abreast of what is happening in those meetings. I think it's fundamental. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u52	Madam Minister, I thank you in particular for the work you have undertaken on deepening differentiation; it is really important. I believe that updating the database can contribute to this policy of deepening differentiation. It is true that, when we read the passage of United Nations resolution 31/36, it is well explained that, normally, it should have been updated annually. Of course, this is not at all the responsibility of Belgium, let alone yours directly. My question was whether you were considering publicly supporting this update. In any case, you are not unfavorable. I hear it and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u53	Madam Secretary, I have listened carefully to you. Of course, they're the same answers. So we keep asking the same questions. I understand, however, that you, together with your partners in the European Union, are investigating how we can provide an answer to Israel about their frequent violations of international law. You will consult with your Israeli counterpart, condemn and send diplomatic missions. However, I have the feeling that since 1967 we have been talking about a period of 73 years, we still have to buy time to come to a solution. You have also said that we will not take any unilateral measures, as this could jeopardise the two-state solution. Excuse me, but the two-state solution is made de facto impossible by the attitude of the Israeli Government. A unilateral measure that could be perfectly justified is that Belgium, regardless of the fact that it finds united states, could recognise the Palestinian Authority, and there could be international recognition of Palestine. That would really help the two-state solution better than the lax and passive attitude that our country continues to adopt, despite the declaration of government and the declaration of policy. You say that we must give time to come up with a coherent policy to ensure that the sustainable peace process is not compromised, but the compelling reality of many Palestinians is that they continue to be expelled from Palestinian territory. I cannot get rid of the impression, even in other issues relating to human rights violations, that action is often taking place very quickly in the rest of the world, while there are still circles here. There will one day be a committee to evaluate what countermeasures or differentiation measures we could possibly take, but it is really nasty. Meanwhile, Israel continues to demolish homes, approve new colonies. Gaza's borders have been kept tight for two months after the horrific bombings in May. However, it does not really seem to have an impact on this government's policy. De facto, the new Israeli government is being held over a hand. Again, we recently discussed the human rights violations committed by China in Xinjiang. If all accusations and allegations are proven by an independent committee of inquiry, these violations must indeed be condemned and sanctioned. However, that is not awaited, China is immediately sanctioned. However, if Israel, an ally of the West, has been in violation of international law and the human rights of the Palestinians for 73 years, there are only convictions, no sanctions. That really is a policy of two sizes and two weights, and that is what we are in favour of.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u54	Madam Secretary, thank you for your commitment in this matter. You're following a two-track policy. On the one hand, you want to give the time and space within the European Union to High Representative Borrell to deport the policy, because it is not easy to get on the same track with 27 Member States. However, he has been working on a position paper with countermeasures since last year. You have clearly placed incentives and incentives on the agenda, which has been a game changer in the relationship between Israel and Palestine. On the other hand, you are also following a trail where you are looking bilaterally for like-minded states. You say that a consensus may be found within the Benelux countries to work on certain measures. I note that Ireland is also a strong precursor to a policy towards Israel and Palestine, so it may be possible to cooperate with Ireland as well. Of course, we expect the note from among others the FPS Economy which looks at how our differentiation policy is implemented. I hope to have an insight into this in the autumn so that further steps can be taken. An important moment in the summer will be August 2. Then the Supreme Court of Israel must rule on the expulsions. If the Israeli Government chooses to postpone it, we know that it takes account of the fact that the Palestinians have a place in Jerusalem. We look forward to 2 August and will certainly ask you new questions about this after the summer. After all, we consider the issue to be an important international topic and can play a strong leading role in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u55	Madam President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, on July 6, more than two months before the official 11 September deadline for the full withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan, the United States of America has already confirmed the departure of more than 80 per cent of its troops, while its last soldiers will have left the country by the end of August, according to the White House. It must be noted that, reinforced by the departure of most American troops and NATO forces, the Taliban have since May been multiplying their offensives against the positions of the Afghan official army in many provinces, including around Kabul. The speed and ease with which the Taliban insurgents increase their area of influence is a very hard psychological blow to the Afghan authorities and to the people who have been living in turmoil for many years and who are currently terrorized by the return of the Taliban. Therefore, in addition to those who surrendered their weapons and surrendered to the Taliban, more than a thousand Afghan soldiers have already retreated to Tajikistan to save their lives, following armed clashes with the Taliban, leading to fears of a total and rapid collapse of the Afghan army. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, what position does Belgium stand on this subject at NATO level? How does it keep an eye on the development of this situation? What will members of the Alliance do in the light of political and humanitarian developments in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u56	Madam President, Mr Lacroix, within NATO, intense discussions are under way on the follow-up to be given after the end of the Resolute Support Mission. As the Alliance made clear at the Brussels summit on 14 June, the end of the Resolute Support Mission should not mean the end of the Alliance's commitment. In this regard, consideration is given to three aspects: the protection and maintenance of the Kabul airport and hospital; the strengthening of the mandate of the NATO High Civilian Representative; and the training and training of Afghan armed forces outside Afghan territory. Depending on the concrete avenues that could emerge on these different aspects, Belgium remains ready to consider possible contributions. Together with the other allies, Belgium also insists on the diplomatic and political path that must be ensured through the intensification of negotiations within the framework of intra-Afghan negotiations involving the Afghan government and the Taliban. The situation on the ground remains particularly complex. These are mainly attempts at general assault by Taliban forces. I share your concern. Realism is needed at both the UN and NATO levels. The European Union plans to maintain an active presence in Kabul in order to continue certain activities. These will be implemented on a conditional basis and will depend on the uncertain security situation. Within NATO, we call for close coordination with the United Nations to this end. At European level, I spoke yesterday as part of what is known as the current affairs. These are the topical points on which we can react. We have limited time. But know that I insisted that Belgium use part of this time to talk about Afghanistan and the importance of intensifying our efforts, continuing to support Afghan national reconciliation that guarantees the rights and fundamental freedoms of the most vulnerable. I am of course thinking particularly of women and representatives of all minorities. Moreover, we cannot close our eyes to the risks of a humanitarian tragedy. Border closure is already freezing access to aid, and local NGOs are facing increasing insecurity. I therefore pleaded for a pooling of our needs analysis capabilities and for the forward-looking identification of our means of action to avoid growing difficulties for the Afghan people. I also met a group of Afghan women a few weeks ago. I'll talk to you about this meeting later, if you wish. The difficulties that the prospects of the future may present are well present in civil society and certainly in these women. It is not because they are women that we must protect them more than others, but the reality is that life, especially for women, with the Taliban is really complicated. I think I have answered all your questions and shared with you my deep feeling.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answers communicated with the sincerity and humanity that often characterize you. I agree with you, we cannot let Afghanistan go. This country was ravaged by the Soviet occupation and then by the Taliban. We have left to try to help them and we are withdrawing. The United States has a lot of responsibility in this but we're not going to play who's wrong or who's right. As you say, it is the population that has been suffering for decades and you are right to worry about women. I don't think we should leave the United States alone to deal with the Afghan issue. The European Union must get involved by stimulating international efforts within the United Nations for political mediation and a diplomatic solution to this conflict with an immediate ceasefire. I also believe that support must be given to Afghan civil society and to NGOs that operate on the ground under dangerous conditions. This is a major concern for you but also for us because I have the feeling that, like the Kurds, they are part of those nations that are sacrificed on the altar of certain interests that are not those of democracy or respect for human rights. Fortunately, your position and recent assertions show that there is not only cynicism that manages diplomacy in general, but that there is also this aspect, but that it must not be naive and filled with good feelings: humanism in politics is one of the driving forces, especially in the field of external relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u58	Madam President, Madam Minister, on June 14, the Vos Triton, a commercial ship flying the flag of Gibraltar, rescued – the verb is probably not appropriate – 180 migrants in distress in international waters, in the middle of the Mediterranean Sea. A few hours after the rescue, in violation of the law of the sea and all international conventions, the master of the ship entered into an agreement with the Libyan Coast Guard to have them come to recover the migrants on his ship. Unfortunately, we are aware of the cruel fate that could be reserved for these migrants, as well as for all those who find themselves caught in the nets of the Libyan coastguards: detention in inhumane conditions, torture and degrading treatment, demand for ransom, slavery and rape. This illegal transshipment, since Libya cannot be considered a safe port, has been formally condemned by the United Nations Agency for Refugees (UNHCR) and the International Organization for Migration (IOM). Madam Minister, are Belgian, European or international sanctions possible against the master or shipowner of this ship? What is the risk to ship managers who violate the law of the sea and SOLAS (Safety of Life at Sea) conventions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u59	Madam President, Mr Moutquin, the Vos Triton sails under the flag of Gibraltar and is operated by the Dutch shipping company Vroom. This is not the first time that the Vos Triton has been involved in the rescue of migrants in the Mediterranean. By February of this year, the Vos Triton had rescued 77 migrants. If, at first, a landing in Libya had been envisaged, it was finally, according to my information – and I imagine my services are well informed – to Porto Empodocle in Sicily that they were sent. In accordance with international maritime law, persons rescued at sea must be landed in a safe port. At the same time, States must coordinate and cooperate to ensure that masters of ships assisting persons in distress are relieved of their obligations and to organize the landing. In this incident, IOM and UNHCR stated that "in the absence of a predictable landing mechanism, maritime actors should not be forced to return refugees and migrants to unsafe places". The two organisations thus called on "States to coordinate their actions so that merchant ships that provide relief to people in distress are given rapid authorization to land in a safe place in order to avoid the danger of human lives". It is a certain fact that no person rescued at sea should see his life put in danger when he landed. It is in this sense that our action must be directed. In any case, that is Belgium's plea. You are asking me the question of the applicable sanctions. The information available to my department does not allow them to be specified at this stage, but we can continue our research on this subject, if you so wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u60	Madam Minister, thank you. This question recalls two realities. First of all, this is the Libyan situation, which worries you just as much as I do. I'm talking about gangs that exploit migrants for the purpose of trafficking. This is one of the worst questions I have ever asked your colleague Mr Mahdi about migration. And then there is this rescue and distribution mechanism, which was the subject of a motion for a resolution two years ago – it was the era before the covid. We encouraged the Belgian Government to rely on Malta's declaration. This is more of a matter for Mr Mahdi, and I shall therefore ask him about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u61	Minister, I am reminded that Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Choukri was invited for an informal breakfast with the Foreign Ministers of the 27 Member States before the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union on Monday 12 July. It seems to me that this is an important opportunity to convey to Egypt our deep concerns about the human rights situation in this country. The European Union and Belgium should take this opportunity to demand the release of prisoners of conscience such as Ahmed Samir Santawy or Ramy Shaath. What topics were discussed during this meeting? Did the situation of Ahmed Samir Santawy or other political prisoners mention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u62	Dear colleague, indeed, a breakfast was held on 12 July in the presence of the Twenty-Seven and the Egyptian Foreign Minister, Mr Choukri. On this occasion, several topics were discussed, including the human rights situation in Egypt, the role of the Muslim Brotherhood in the country and the region, the role of Egypt in the Middle East and Africa, the challenges of migration, the Middle East peace process, the situation in Libya and a subject of great concern to the Egyptians, namely the tensions around the Great Ethiopian Renaissance Dam. Egypt's energy policy and the health situation were also discussed. I also met him bilaterally this morning. Of course, it was an opportunity for us to continue on the basis of the discussions that took place yesterday and to deepen some of them. Regarding the human rights situation, if I sum up what was exchanged yesterday and today, the minister said that Egypt is aware of the situation and is ready to take action to improve them. He's talking about a work in progress. He himself says that when he speaks of a work in progress, he hears work that is not finished. However, he made it clear that the policy of naming and shampoo is difficult for his country and that there is also reason to look at the things that have been done positively in his country since then. I think that, when you look at something, you have to do it without concessions in relation to its fundamental values, but you also have to have the honesty to recognize when things improve. He spoke of the right to housing, for example, which was improving very strongly in his country. He spoke of women's empowerment, with 25 per cent of women in his Government and 25 per cent in the legislature. He also spoke about the creation of a Higher Council for Human Rights with the aim of mapping all the challenges that Egypt faces. Of course, this did not prevent us from having a frank dialogue on the issue, for example, of the death penalty and Mr Santawy's situation, which I discussed not at breakfast but at our bilateral meeting. I have expressed our concerns, which he has taken note of. You see that all the dimensions of the human rights issue in Egypt have been addressed, whether at breakfast with European colleagues or at my bilateral meeting. I have agreed with my counterpart to continue this dialogue on subjects of common interest, of which this one obviously, without any concessions on our fundamental values.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u63	Madam Minister, thank you. First of all, when I see the list of topics you are addressing, I think you have very long lunches! That wasn't the subject of my question, but I'm very happy to read your tweet about Ethiopia. Indeed, it is a subject that is very little discussed. It's true that I appreciate your work. You don't always surf what works and what is successful unfortunately or fortunately in the media. I think Ethiopia is really a subject on which we all have to work. I know that, in these discussions, there are elements that have no interest in being put on the public square, even if you are working in full transparency. I hear the Egyptian government's argument about work in progress. Unfortunately, Ahmed Samir Santawy's state of health is not progressing at all, you know that. It is rather worrying, according to the information available to us. I thank you, however, for coming up with it. It will be sent to his companion who lives in our country and with whom Samir had planned to settle before being arrested. At the time, your predecessor, Mr. Goffin, had encouraged us to take on our responsibilities in the committees and to use one of our tools, namely interparliamentary unions, so that we could also start diplomatic work. Unfortunately, I have contacted the Egyptian embassy several times, which has never answered my calls. If you have contact with the ambassador, you can also tell him that I would be happy to have lunch with him, but maybe not as long as you did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u64	Question No 550/854C by Mr. Ben Achour is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u65	Minister, we see each other once again for a question about China. Unfortunately, we are talking about this too often in this committee, since this country is exerting a series of pressure on minorities on its territory or on surrounding populations. As you may know, Amnesty International has issued a new report on the situation in Hong Kong. We are very concerned about this one. Although China's full regime should not be applied until 2047, according to the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, it is clear that Beijing's pressure on the Hong Kong population is increasingly unsustainable. According to the report of 30 June last, the National Security Act transforms Hong Kong into a police state allowing the authorities the possibility of unlawfully establishing any dissent as an offence. The human rights situation is becoming increasingly problematic. Freedom of expression is also particularly affected in the light of article 9 of the said Act, which allows the authorities to take the necessary measures to strengthen the State's communication. The closure of the only newspaper that can be described as pro-democratic, Apple Daily, on June 24 attests to a very bleak future reality. We had already talked about this on 16 December last in committee. You were responding to me to make every effort at the international level to call on China and Hong Kong to respect their international commitments as well as human rights. However, you told me that you had not had high-level contact with the Chinese delegations because of the covid-19 pandemic. So, Madam Minister, have you met or had contact with the Chinese Ambassador since your last intervention in committee on the subject? If so, have you raised our concerns about the rights of Hong Kongers and, in particular, about freedom of expression and the press? What answers can we hope from Belgian diplomacy to encourage China to meet its international commitments in a context that we know is obviously difficult? Finally, what do you make of the recommendations of Amnesty International's report? Do you intend to support a special session of the UN Human Rights Committee on the deterioration of human rights in Hong Kong?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u66	Thank you, Mr. De Smet, for your question. We have indeed taken note of Amnesty International's latest report on the situation in Hong Kong and we share your concern about the situation in the Special Administrative Region. It is true that, since the introduction of the National Security Act in June 2020, the situation continues to deteriorate. Developments in recent weeks, including the closure of the Apple Daily newspaper, confirm that the space reserved for human rights and fundamental freedoms is steadily shrinking. This situation is regularly addressed bilaterally between my services and the Chinese Embassy. You asked me if I had received the ambassador. I did better, since I put myself in direct contact with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, with whom I had a long telephone conversation on this subject. At European level, Belgium also maintains its support for the adoption of new Council conclusions to answer this question. In other places, this situation is also addressed, such as, of course, during the sessions of the Human Rights Council, including at the most recent session, at which Belgium joined, inter alia, the joint statement on the situation of fundamental freedoms in Hong Kong, in addition to the situation in Xinjiang and Tibet. However, a special session is not on the agenda, because it is only organized when one third of the members of the Human Rights Council request it, or sixteen countries, and we are not members of the Council. That is for factual information on this request to the Council!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u67	I thank the minister for her response and I am sure that she can count on her vigilance on this issue, at the highest level, as she continues to demonstrate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u68	Madam President, Madam Minister, the third Universal Periodic Review which was carried out on May 5th resulted in 308 recommendations addressed to Belgium. I found that a meeting had taken place on June 16. It shows that some priorities will be taken over by your administration. Secondly, concerning the ratification of the twelfth Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR), you stated in committee on 4 May that the Flemish Government was waiting for the case law of the European Court of Human Rights to know its position on the scope of the Protocol. With regard to the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, I asked you in committee on that same date. You told me that a group of experts was working on this issue and that an interdepartmental conference on foreign policy would be held later this year. In the meantime, I note that Switzerland has made its recommendations public to Belgium, encouraging it to ratify this Convention. Minister, I will ask you simple follow-up questions. Can we hope for a further meeting on the implementation of the Third Universal Periodic Review of Belgium? With regard to the ratification of the twelfth Additional Protocol to the ECHR, has the European Court of Human Rights given a ruling on the scope of the Protocol? If so, have you received any information on the approval of the Flemish Government in this regard? Finally, do you envisage the forthcoming holding of an interdepartmental conference on foreign policy? If so, will ratification of the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities be included on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u69	Madam President, Mr De Smet, on 11 June, all the Belgian authorities involved took part in a debriefing for stakeholders, i.e. non-governmental organisations and independent institutions with a mandate to protect human rights. To my knowledge, since the dialogue of 5 May, no further developments have been made with regard to the twelfth additional protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights, neither in the case law of the Court nor in the position of the Flemish Government. On the other hand, I am informed that no recommendations had been made regarding this protocol during the last Universal Periodic Review of Belgium. Its ratification was therefore not part of the follow-up to that review. Finally, an interdepartmental Foreign Affairs Conference should be possible in the fall, as soon as the invitations have been sent to the participants in order to put on the agenda the issues to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u70	Minister, thank you for your factual and comprehensive response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u71	Madam Minister, over the last two years, the German authorities have been spying on a number of progressive organizations and making life difficult for them with various forms of bureaucratic harassment. This has been the case, among other things, with the VVN-BdA, the Vereinigung der Verfolgten des Naziregimes (VVN-BdA), Bund der Antifaschistinnen und Antifaschisten. We know this association well in Parliament because of its fight against war pensions which Germany still pays out to Belgian Nazi collaborators. The progressive daily Junge Welt is also endorsed. Now the DKP, the Deutsche Kommunist Partei, is threatened by the withdrawal of its legal status as a political party, because of a bureaucratic futility. That would exclude the party from participating in the elections. That would be a particularly anti-democratic step. This type of Parteiverbot has a number of well-known precedents in German history. We should be concerned about this evolution. Are you aware of this worrying evolution in our neighbouring country? Have you spoken to the German Government or your German colleague about this? Can you confirm that there's also a case going on to outlaw the DKP? What justification does the German Government give for this attempt at Parteiverbot?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u72	In reply to your question, Mr De Vuyst, I can inform you that the Communist Party of Deutschlands or the KPD, like some 80 other parties and associations, had applied to the German Federal Election Commission to participate in German federal elections scheduled for 26 September 2021. All candidates were examined by the committee. It was verified that they met the requirements for party recognition for this election in accordance with the legal requirements. The Committee shall not examine the content of the electoral programme of the Parties. A number of parties, including the KPD but also others, were not allowed. The electoral committee stated that the KPD had always submitted the required accountability reports too late over the past six years. The reports thus did not meet the legal minimum requirements for electoral participation. This is not, therefore, a party ban in accordance with Article 21 (2) of the German Constitution which allows parties seeking to undermine the free democratic basic order to declare unconstitutional. This is a decision of the German Federal Electoral Commission on the basis of the minimum legal requirements. Our country has not appealed to the German Government about the procedural decision of the German Federal Electoral Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u73	Madam Secretary, you say this is a procedure of the German Federal Election Commission. It assesses the eligibility of all other parties on the basis of a number of criteria and bureaucratic matters such as the timely submission of certain reports. That confirms our suspicions. We can't go too light on this. It is about excluding a number of parties, not only from the KPD, 80 days before the German elections. The KPD is threatened with exclusion and financial ruin, while extreme right-wing parties such as the NPD and the (...) are admitted. Not only left-wing progressive and communist parties have been endorsed in Germany in recent years. We also see a similar slip towards an authoritarian approach to progressive support for the Palestinian issue, under the guise of the fight against anti-Semitism, with a ban on German citizens and organisations and ironically also for Jewish Germans and German organisations fighting for the rights of Palestinians in the illegal Israeli colonisation of their country. In this House, we are constantly talking, with the right and the right to be clear, about the right and the slipping towards an authoritarian regime, for example in Poland and Hungary. We also see a similar evolution in Turkey. However, Western European countries are not immune to this phenomenon either. In addition to what is increasingly happening in Germany, I am also thinking, for example, of the intimidation of and the so-called Islamo-gauchism of Macron and the violent repression of trade union demonstrations and demonstrations of les gilets jaunes in France. In Belgium, too, efforts are constantly being made from a certain angle to restrict trade union actions, including by legal means. It is time to pay attention to the authoritarian tendencies that are emerging in Western European democracies too. We have to fight this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u74	Madam President, Madam Minister, earlier I questioned you about Johan Daumerie, a Dilbeek entrepreneur, who has been under house arrest for 11 months in a hotel room in Dubai and was given a blitz trial, leading to a sentence of imprisonment and a fine of EUR 230,000. As long as that fine isn't paid, he's gonna have to stay in jail. You have given a rather disappointing answer to my earlier question. You said that you do not wish to break into ongoing judicial proceedings and into the internal affairs of the United Arab Emirates. These are all beautiful principles, but in that country the separation of powers has a different, rather inverse meaning than with us. You also said that our embassy will keep following up on the file, but it seems to me that a more active role is appropriate. You refer to the fact that this is an individual file, but I would like to point out that the person concerned is absolutely looking for public access and absolutely does not want to hide behind privacy legislation, because the situation is becoming acute. The clock is ticking, because it may be his last days in relative freedom. I would like to ask you the following questions. Have you already made contact with your colleague or with the institutions in Abu Dhabi to express our concerns? After all, we are talking about a fellow countryman who has been severely convicted in special circumstances. You have been offered the opportunity from Flanders to work together for a useful diplomatic action in the file. Do you see any possibilities for that? You indicated that medical assistance in the context of the covid pandemic was not yet raised by Mr Daumerie, but that our embassy will also naturally provide assistance in this area when the question arises. However, Mr Daumerie did, at least in the meantime, make that request, but the embassy's answer was: "We have, to our regret, found no way to do so in the emirate of Dubai, as you do not have a valid residence visa." That is true, because Mr Daumerie's visa has been taken. Of course, that's not welfare, but rather a catch 22. What are the options for helping people in need? Finally, I assume that this case is not a unique one. Do you have any figures on compatriots in prison in the United Arab Emirates in similar circumstances or waiting for their trial?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u75	Madam President, Madam Minister, in the Committee of 29 June 2021, I already questioned you about the situation of a fellow countryman in Dubai. I asked you the question as to what was going on with his health situation and whether, if necessary, medical assistance would be provided. I also mentioned at the time that he was allegedly not entitled to a covid vaccine, which was refused. Your answer has just been quoted by Mr De Roover. What action has Foreign Affairs taken in the meantime in this matter? Since the issue of medical assistance is now being raised, is a solution being sought to vaccinate him? Are there any other compatriots in the same situation? If so, how many? Is it true that the gentleman in question is not entitled to a pro-Deo lawyer or medical assistance? As regards the issue of his withdrawn passport, the Belgian Embassy in the United Arab Emirates reported to the person concerned: "A provisional passport must always have a police clearance first. Without this clearance, the provisional passport is not recognised by the local government. A new passport is also not possible, as your old valid passport is in the possession of the police." Madam Secretary, on what international legal basis can a country withdraw its passport?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u76	Madam President, Mr De Roover, Mrs Samyn, thank you for your questions. I can inform you that a meeting took place on 8 July 2021 between the Foreign Affairs Office and a representative of the authorities of the United Arab Emirates. During this meeting we expressed our deep concern about Mr Daumerie's situation and stressed that Mr Daumerie is entitled to a fair trial, that his rights of defence should be safeguarded at all times. I assure you that both the FPS Foreign Affairs and the Embassy in Abu Dhabi will continue to follow closely the file. We are in close contact with both Mr Daumerie and his lawyer. During that interview, he also mentioned the high costs of a trial lawyer in the United Arab Emirates, which prevented Mr Daumerie from being able to defend himself orally during his trial. The Belgian ambassador to Abu Dhabi is taking regular steps and has recently written to the emir. An attempt by the authority to intervene with the person who lodged the complaint against Mr Daumerie was unsuccessful, because of a refusal to withdraw the complaint. As regards medical assistance, the embassy helped Mr Daumerie gain access to a doctor in June 2021. He expressed his gratitude for this. For further medical questions, the embassy will continue to look directly with him when he himself will ask specific questions to our consular service. It is not only in the United Arab Emirates that, during an investigation or trial by the competent judicial authority, it can be decided that the international passport of a suspect is temporarily seized. Furthermore, the Foreign Affairs Services are not aware of any other case of a fellow countryman who would be in prison for allegations of some kind in the Emirates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u77	Madam Secretary, I am glad that you seem to have put an end to your somewhat far-reaching passivity. That's the impression you gave last time. A number of actions have been taken. The embassy has certainly had frequent contact with Mr Daumerie. Contact with the authorities of the Emirates is a step beyond what has been done so far. It is clear, however, that this is not enough. This may need to be escalated to a higher level. As Foreign Minister, of course, you are primarily responsible for the fate of our fellow countrymen abroad. In this case, the person is the victim of a legal system that we do not recognize as such. That is why I remain in contact with Mr Daumerie to monitor the situation. I ask you to take additional initiatives. As the previous initiatives have still not produced the desired result, they need to be escalated to a higher level than contact between people from the FOD State Department and authorities of the Emirates. If that more silent diplomatic approach doesn't help, the ball is back in your camp. I am counting on you to exhaust all the possibilities of ending this very sad story.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic551x.u78	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I am not talking about possible guilt or innocence in this file, but we must be vigilant about correct and transparent justice. This applies not only to this dossier, but also to similar cases in which Belgians abroad were the victims of a questionable legal system. When it comes to respecting human rights, the United Arab Emirates do not have the best reputation. Those who are full of human rights throughout the world must, first and foremost, take care of their compatriots who are detained in such places without much rights, especially as regards health care. I am therefore counting on you to continue to follow this matter closely.
