ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u1	The meeting was called to order at 2.18 p.m. and chaired by Ms. Eliane Tillieux, Chair. The meeting was opened at 2.18 p.m. and chaired by the president, Eliane Tillieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u2	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u3	Ministers of the Federal Government present at the opening of the sitting: At the opening of the meeting, the Ministers of the Federal Government: Aucun/None.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u4	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 March 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meetings. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 March 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meetings. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u5	Madam President, given the nature of the meeting, we are in the government's happy expectation. I assume that it is represented here at least by the Minister of the Interior, but given the importance of the discussion, I think that the Prime Minister should be here in any case. After all, it is a draft law, albeit for the time being. This is all the more justified in the light of the latest events. The Prime Minister can't pretend his nose is bleeding. It seems obvious to me that he should have a moment here in Parliament to ask himself what has happened over the last few hours. This is particularly appropriate to the subject we are discussing today. I would therefore ask the Chamber to bring the Prime Minister to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u6	I understand that the Minister of the Interior and the Prime Minister are very busy analysing the camouflage that was imposed by the court decision this morning, but nevertheless, I think that, in relation to the agreements that we have made, it is obviously here that the debate must take place. It is clear that the court decision is a wonderful example of what some of the opposition have denounced for weeks, that is, that the legal basis for the measures taken was not very solid. But it seems to me a little limited to escape the debate here today. Colleagues, it is entirely legitimate and fair for the executive to be present in this preliminary exercise for discussion on a bill. I think that was the agreement we reached at the Conference of Presidents. Could all colleagues give the same signal and ask that the debate be held in the presence of the government in plenary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u7	We welcome Minister Verlinden. Welcome to our work. I would just like to point out to the minister that two groups have just reported that they have requested the Prime Minister's presence in this debate. I would like to explain that this session is exceptional, that we are going to debate a preliminary draft decree. There are no votes or documents, except, of course, the report of our debates, which will be forwarded to the government. We are in an exceptional procedure and the government is represented. Does the minister wish to add anything about the Prime Minister's presence? Are there any other comments? [[(Non]] [[)]] I suggest that you start our work because the government is represented. As often expressed, if represented and collegial, the government is assisting in our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u8	Madam President, I do not deny that the government is present, but Parliament can call ministers to appear here. I would like colleagues to give a ruling on this. If they felt that the Prime Minister should be allowed to hide from the debate, I would have liked to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u9	Mr De Roover, you've been sitting here a little too long to play such silly games. The government is one and indivisible. In the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs, the Minister was also alone. You can rest assured that she alone can stand her hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u10	Yes, Madam President, for my group, we can begin our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u11	The discussion is open. The meeting's open. I would remind you that the decision has been made to allow each group to intervene for a maximum of 20 minutes. Speaking time shall be 10 minutes for non-approved political groups. Interruptions may, with a maximum of one break per group. A break of up to one minute per group for those involved. I will be strict with regard to the application of these time limits. I shall be watching very closely today to ensure that speaking time is respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a very large report of 624 pages in front of us. Don't worry, I won't read it to you. I would nevertheless like to take the floor in consultation with my fellow rapporteurs, Mrs Matz and Mr Demon, in order to clarify the specificity of the procedure. In a letter dated 10 February 2021, Mr Alexander De Croo, Prime Minister, proposed to the Chamber a preliminary draft pandemic law. At its meeting of 24 February 2021, the Conference of Presidents discussed the organisation of work on the preliminary draft. It decided that the report of the discussion in committee would provide substance for the work of the government before the final draft law was submitted to Parliament. The Internal Affairs Commission therefore discussed the preliminary draft law at its meetings on 3, 5, 10, 12, 16 and 24 March 2021. At the meeting of 3 March 2021, the Committee decided to organise preliminary draft law hearings and to obtain written opinions. In accordance with Article 28 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee decided that an integral report would be drawn up for the hearings. The hearings took place on 10, 12 and 16 March 2021. We have heard Mr Verdussen, Mr D'Hooghe, Mrs Sautois, Mrs Popelier, Mr Boes, Mrs Romainville, Mr Dumortier, Mrs Degrave, Mr Pardon, Mr Raeymaekers, Mr Stevens, Mr Mathen, Mrs Venet, Mrs Verstrepen, Mr Hensmans, Mr Van Gils, Mr Callens, Mr Dries and Mr Snijkers, Mr Hens, Mr Gilbert and Mrs Doutrelopont. In addition, a number of written opinions have been obtained, which have been added exceptionally to the report, because they are also particularly valuable. These are reports by Mr Vuye, Mrs Bourgaux, Mr Storme, Mr Poullet, Mrs Brems, Mr Bossuyt, Mr Cologneer, the High Council for Justice, the College of Procurators-General, the Standing Committee P, the Task Force Integrated Police, the Advisory Council of Magistrate, le Centre d'Action Laïque, the Order of Doctors, the Belgian Association of Doctoral Syndicates, the employees' organizations ACV and ADVV, Movement.net, the employers' organizations VBO, UNIZO and the Union des Classes Moyennes, Mrs Caroline Vrijens (Flemish Child Rights Commissioner) and its Walloon counterpart, Mr De Vos, the Flemish Association of Students and the Fédération des étudiants compophones. The Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights (FIRM) also gave an opinion spontaneously on 10 March 2021. On 3 March 2021, we had an introductory meeting with the Minister in which she proposed her preliminary draft. Then the hearings came. On 24 March 2021, we had an exchange of views in the Committee on Home Affairs. Today we are holding this plenary session. It is a very thorough report, which the government will certainly be able to help in its work. I would like to thank the services for their exceptionally smooth and flexible operation. They have done a lot of work with a quick report and a very good translation. I would like to thank them for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u13	Thank you for the report, Mrs Ingels. Mr De Roover has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u14	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have amended my introduction. Today has happened which I have been warning here for months. This government took huge risks by opting for MBs in implementing freedom-limiting measures in its corona policy. That warning was sent out by the government, but today the League for Human Rights is being given equal status by the Brussels court at first instance and all corona measures must be lifted within 30 days. The court required the Belgian State "to take all appropriate measures to put an end to the apparent illegality resulting from the measures, in order to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms recognised by the Constitution." This is an accident waiting to happen, for which the government has permanently closed its eyes. On 31 January 2021, Prime Minister De Croo, evidently absent from an interesting debate here, stated in the Seventh Day that he did not want to add any additional uncertainty, namely a legal uncertainty. If it wasn't so sad, we'd be laughing about it. How harsh those words sound today! This government has played with fire in implementing its corona policy. About every week I warned about this, but I only harvested one hautain shoulder-picking. Do you remember the term "gingerbread," Madam Secretary? If only you had listened to Parliament, that mess, that institution which, according to this government, really should not play a major role. By providing for a period of 30 days, the judge may have saved the government from total chaos, unless this is the start of a tidal wave of trials. The political damage is certainly enormous. What an embarrassment for the absent Prime Minister and for you, Madam Secretary. You are both fully responsible, including for all claims that will almost certainly follow. In any case, today the carpet was pulled out under your feet, as a guarantee of an orderly policy. I would ask you to inform us later on how you assess your own functioning against this background. I now turn to the preliminary draft pandemic law before us. I quote Professor Verdussen: "Enfin une loi." He is one of the many experts who have long been annoyed by the way in which basic rights are dealt with through MBs and with the exclusion of Parliament. For months I have been calling for a sound legal and democratic underpinning of the Corona policy. After we had put forward a proposal, after months of announcement policy, you finally stepped up. This is the result. However, the hearings with experts have shown that this rapidity has shown that your barge is not seaworthy. However, the text has already passed through the core, the meeting of top ministers, after several discussions in inter-Kabinette working groups. So we didn't expect a shallow blanker but a thorough piece of work. The examination of this preliminary draft in the Committee on the Interior, after interesting hearings and interventions by many colleagues, proves the added value of a parliamentary debate. The government prides itself on this method, which is bizarre enough because it has resisted a parliamentary debate for months. It is only after the opposition has pressed for a long time that this treatment has been proposed. It is exceptional, but there are good reasons for this in the circumstances. So, fortunately, the submission of a proposal by our group has finally brought this House fully involved in this debate. The hearings strongly criticised the preliminary draft. However, as has already been said, it had already been dealt with by the core at first reading. In recent months, you have made it clear that you have so far used an overly shaky basis for policy. Many experts have pointed this out, and in fact the court underlined this this morning. We could have hoped that the pandemic law would provide some relief. You have stretched the interpretation of the existing legislation so far that the entire civil society has opposed it, but today the court too. What exercise has been presented to us now? We must make a choice under exceptional crisis conditions. Is Parliament an obstacle in an emergency situation or is it a crucial ally in its fight against it? A balance must be struck between democratic legitimacy and flexibility, and between the protection of health and the protection of our fundamental rights. This balance has been unbalanced over the past few months and must therefore be restored. To create the atmosphere in which we find ourselves, against the background of the principle of the rule of law, I quote a few passages by the Dutch author, philosopher and'soon' liberal Maxim February from NRC Handelsblad of 30 March: "Should we not talk about our handling of risks? How do you legitimise the restriction of fundamental rights and under what conditions do we abolish all measures? Those aren't insignificant questions. The government can't expand in a great way without us first sitting in a circle and discussing the issue." We are in a hemisphere, which must offer opportunities. Maxim February continues: "The Prime Minister's coming to tell us on television once a month whether we can go out and what time is a gotsp. The fact that he does not discuss what risk is acceptable, and under what conditions the measures are withdrawn, is a claim to absolute power. No exit plan, restriction of fundamental rights without a defined purpose, excluding people from society without discussion. We're just doing somethin'. Are we gonna keep doing that in the county board from now on? Maybe it's nice to be a citizen and not as critical as some crazy conspiracy thinkers, but actually it's just a dubious lack of civic spirit." That's what's in store right now. How open are we to the debate? To what extent do we pull it out of the back rooms? Madam Minister, the recommendations of the Geneva Convention of 26 May 2020 should be an important guide: a clear definition of the need, assured control of Parliament and adequate legal control. The hearings have shown that the preliminary draft does not meet that requirement and does not ensure the healthy balance that we need to seek. It's already gone wrong in Article 2. I admit that no expert has made it difficult on Article 1. There was consensus on this, but it already went wrong from Article 2. The definition of the epidemic emergency raised acute questions for many experts. We notice that a classic mistake is being made. The existing corona crisis forms the basis for tackling future crises. Now, in 2021, we have to predict the contours of a future pandemic, the preliminary draft is only aimed at and usable for pandemics, as it were. We are being pushed into the role of Madame Blanche. Either we make the demarcation too broad and then it becomes almost unpredictable for which this law can be used, or we opt for too narrow a provision and then it threatens to become unusable in concrete new circumstances. Article 3 deals with the government's announcement of the emergency. Given that the importance of this issue calls for a substantial debate in the Chamber, the two-day period envisaged is obviously far too short. The fear that a vacuum would arise between the proclamation of the Royal Decree and the ratification during which the government could not act is likely to be solved if the existing civil security law remained in force. In any case, the relationship between this so-called pandemic law and the existing laws, such as the Civil Security Act, deserves more clearance than is being given today. It is particularly important that the preliminary draft report mentions the special committee COOVID-19, which is still being assigned a role, which will be abolished very soon. That is an illustration of the carelessness with which this text has been drawn up. Article 4 also raised a number of concerns. That the Constitution does not allow MBs to be used, there was a broad consensus, even among most political groups. Thus, according to experts, the preliminary draft budget is a sin against the Constitution, which should have been avoided in the case of a text that has already been validated by the core. The need for the MBs to be necessary, adequate and proportionate, as it says, is of course an open door, but that does not offer any guarantee and is already guaranteed by important other texts. The assurance that the MBs will be communicated to the President of the Chamber does not add much to transparency, since I can assume that ministerial decisions will be published in the Belgian Official Journal and can, of course, always give rise to a parliamentary debate, albeit always afterwards and without impact on the measures themselves. We are not making any progress here. Nor is there any assurance that the Council of State will be involved a priori. The fact that this government has been in existence for as long as it has been, of course, refusing to bring in the Council of State's legislation section, by constantly hiding behind the urgency, is something that makes us suspicious when it is not covered in the draft. In fact, the People's Representation is asked to issue a blank cheque to the government so that it can take measures on its own, in Article 5, which deals with fundamental rights and freedoms. I do not know what inspired the collection of top ministers, which we call the core, to include the following sentence, I quote: 'These ministerial decisions can be totally or partially lifted by law'. If it were the intention to insinuate that the Chamber should be taken seriously, the authors of this text have a very low opinion on the judgment of this House. Here too, open doors have been kicked in. If the government wanted to ensure that it did not completely abolish Parliament, that after months of government by means of ministerial decisions, it would remind for a moment of the hierarchy of standards, it might have been more of a text for yourself than for us. Then we come to Article 5, which defines what measures the government can take without involving the Chamber. Article 5 gives the Minister of the Interior, contrary to the Constitution, the power to break into fundamental rights under Title II of the Constitution. The Minister of the Interior is promoted here to minister of interference in personal matters. However, the Constitution states that only the legislator has the power to do so. Here too, the core text violates the Constitution. That Constitution intended to reserve the decision on temporary restrictions on fundamental rights to a body of 150 members and not to a body consisting of one member. Allow me to illustrate where this preliminary draft opens very dangerous doors. We are talking about the imposition of physical and sanitary measures. That has evoked a sense of horror from the experts, because that phrase can mean anything. Article 5 (1) (e) makes more alarm bells go off. One minister would be able to introduce, with a signature, measures concerning the prohibition or restriction of movements, including the definition of modalities or conditions in this respect. Professor Verdussen hierover: "This provision allows the Minister of the Interior to prohibit for three months any gathering throughout Belgium, at any time of day and night, for any reason more or less related to the health crisis." I have passed it through a translation machine and it sounds like: 'This provision allows the Minister of the Interior to ban all meetings on Belgian territory for three months, at any time of the day or night, for whatever reason that is more or less related to the health crisis'. This draft, if accepted by this House, allows a night and even a day clock, a ban on moving, a ban on coming together. It could all be introduced with one pen stroke of one minister. Is there a Belarusian translation of this passage, Madam Secretary? Mr Lukashenko will certainly be interested in this work, especially when he can refer to Belgium as his predecessor. Even though you have gone too far over the last few months in interpreting your powers in interventions on basic freedoms, I am certainly not comparing you, Mrs Verlinden, with the Belarusian autocrat. But you ask that this text be raised to law. This means that in future too, even if you are no longer a Minister of the Interior, this law will be used to introduce, for example, why not, a day clock, to restrict fundamental citizens' rights. Here, this preliminary draft is firmly about the red line which must draw a democratic rule of law. We can be brief about Article 6. The experts were there, in summary, decisively in: do not! Delete! Article 7 on punishment does not provide for any appropriate application of the penal provisions that should be regulated by law. As it stands, the judge is only made available the heaviest ax. There is no room for proportionality. Ladies and gentlemen, my time is running out, but we will, of course, have this debate later when the real draft comes. The debates we had, Madam Minister, were useful, at least as regards the hearings, which would have been organized under normal procedure, and as regards the questions raised by the various groups. The added value has been less demonstrated by your speeches, Madam Secretary. These were limited to a list of what emerged from the hearings. You have provided a summary, in which you have assessed the weight of the comments in a more subjective way. And as a reply to the questions you were asked on 24 March, you said the following words, which I found in the report: 'under investigation', 'under investigation', 'under investigation', 'under investigation', 'under investigation', 'under review', 'under discussion' and 'under discussion'. You have shown no commitment to the questions that have been asked, neither those of the experts, nor those of the opposition or majority groups. You've put yourself in the spectator's place, and maybe you should get rid of it. I hope that this will be the case today, even if you are abandoned by the Prime Minister, who is clearly avoiding his responsibility here. At the heart of the problem is the fact that this preliminary draft budget is renouncing the democratically highly disputed way of working. Where you are ignoring Parliament today, you will ask Parliament to actively disqualify and disqualify itself as a co-actor in an emergency by means of this bill, in exchange for giving the government carte blanche for the possible long-term restriction of fundamental rights. The essence of the law before us is that Parliament is largely, albeit with its own approval, silenced. Moreover, I strongly oppose the suspicion that a parliamentary examination of proposals for restricting fundamental rights and freedoms would be pointless, because this House is groaning under the umbrella of participation. Far from me, moreover, to deny the problem of participation, but measures which concern these fundamental issues must be discussed openly. It will lead to greater openness and, moreover, it will promote the quality of regulation, which is proven here. Imagine if we had seen the government give free rein to the drafting of this text. Imagine if the experts and the Chamber had not made the obvious criticism that has now been expressed. What horrible thing would we have seen here? If you want to respect the basic democratic principles, Madam Minister, you will have to amend this draft until it becomes almost unrecognizable. If you adjust your preliminary draft in order to respond to the many criticisms made by the experts, you will, strangely enough, be very close to the proposal submitted by the N-VA. You could also simply take our proposal as a starting point and take into account the consequences of the hearings by withdrawing this sloppy and democratically dangerous design. I conclude with another quote from Maxim February: "A democratic rule of law can only exist by the grace of a political community and a political community will kill you by massive government pressure." I'd like to complement his quote. A political community will also kill you if you put Parliament out of business in crisis time. Ladies and gentlemen, during this 55th parliamentary term, let this Parliament not be the representative of the people who will be known in future history books as the Parliament which declared itself powerless when it really comes to it. Let's save ourselves that embarrassment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u15	You've been given 2 minutes extra time. I therefore propose that the other groups should also be given two additional minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u16	Madam Chair, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of this first stage of discussions on the Pandemic Bill. With my group, I greeted the announcement and then the arrival of this text. We welcomed the unprecedented and very open method of development. The last few weeks have amply demonstrated the relevance and added value of having opened this wide space for discussion now. I would therefore like to thank the Minister and the government as a whole for this initiative and the method of work. In our view, this first round had two objectives. It has already reached the first: the debate has taken place and it goes beyond the walls of our Parliament. The many people and organizations who responded, in a short time, to our invitation to contribute to our work, but also the hundreds of messages from citizens we receive bear witness to the great expectations of society with regard to this text. I thank them for enriching the discussions so much. We have received a great deal of encouragement, milling grains, often creative and always constructive ways of improving. This brings me to the second objective, which, for its part, has yet to be achieved. Indeed, the process put in place must now keep its promises and allow the first version of the text to evolve towards a law that will fully respect the constitutional framework that guarantees our freedoms and the rule of law, a law that will lead to the widest possible conviction and adherence. In this context, allow me to highlight three areas on which the evolution of the text must be based for environmentalists. First, the implementation and protection of human rights with constant attention to vulnerable people. Secondly, the preservation of the fundamentals of the rule of law and the balance between powers so that crises can be managed as democratically as possible. Thirdly, the strengthening of mutual trust between politicians and citizens in order to confront the crisis together. Before I continue my intervention, I would like to mention the court decision that has already been extensively commented on. As far as I am concerned, I see confirmation of the usefulness of the work we are dealing with today. This once again demonstrates the need for a new legal basis. That is all the meaning of our meeting this afternoon and previous weeks. It goes without saying that we are at our disposal to work very quickly, if necessary. I'm coming to my first axis. Let's keep human rights as a compass. Our country does not allow them to be suspended. They therefore continue to apply in a context of crisis. Health measures have restricted certain rights. But it was to better guarantee others. We must articulate these different dimensions by paying particular and constant attention to the most vulnerable. This is the spirit in which human rights organisations or the Federation of Social Services invite us to anchor the responses to the crisis. We fully support it. Pandemic law may benefit from being understood in this positive dynamic, with the aim of implementing the right to life, health, human dignity and decent working conditions despite the context of a pandemic. It is then this objective that would underlie any restrictions on other fundamental rights, to the extent strictly necessary. Let us not be afraid to write it clearly! In this respect, we can also clarify and strengthen the criteria for monitoring the proportionality of measures. We have seen too much over the course of the past year to what extent measures which, on paper, appear to be neutral because they apply to everyone, in practice lead to unequal effects. Consider single mothers, people living in small housing without an outside space, people who are alone or without a car, people living in community or institutional settings such as children in care, the elderly or persons with disabilities, or prisoners, not to mention all those who are vulnerable as a result of the crisis itself because of their state of health or work situation. Measures cannot have a disproportionate impact on more vulnerable individuals or groups. It is our responsibility to explicitly include this essential tag in the text. It is of course not possible to determine in advance and theoretically whether a measure will be perfectly calibrated. Proportionality depends heavily on the context and evolves over time. It is not only at the time of its initial activation but also throughout its application that the proportionality of a measure must be assessed. The control of proportionality is part of the temporality and the maintenance of restrictions over time must give rise to our increased vigilance to ensure that the measures remain strictly necessary, adequate and proportionate. In this context, the introduction of a tiered system, proposed by Professor Romainville, has caught our attention. In this system, categories of measurements may be activated or deactivated gradually according to the evolution of the situation. In the same vein, it seems to us desirable that the law should pay the same attention to the conditions for exiting the emergency situation as the attention given to its initiation. In view of all these imperatives, it seems to us highly relevant to provide in law for a system of monitoring the proportionality of measures. As Professor D'Hooghe suggested, this could take the form of an accompanying committee to ensure that the restrictions, in practice, on the ground, in combination with each other are always proportionate and that certain parts of the population do not have a disproportionate impact. The challenge is not just to carry out this impact assessment: we will also have to be able to make it public, to demonstrate publicly that the choices that are made are systematically the least damaging to freedoms. Proportionality and transparency will therefore go hand in hand, I will have the opportunity to return to it. I come to my second priority, the preservation of the fundamentals of the rule of law and the balance between powers, so that crises can be managed democratically. As several speakers pointed out during our hearings, including Professors Verdussen and Popelier, this is a real balancing exercise that we must achieve here between the imperatives in tension: flexibility, flexibility, speed of reaction, on the one hand, the preservation of the fundamentals of the rule of law and legitimacy, on the other hand. It is also in view of this inherent tension that a specific pandemic law is important in order not to address an exceptional crisis with ordinary legal frameworks that would then be diverted from their original vocation. The text provides for stronger information from Parliament through the transmission of data and information. This is of course very positive and welcome. We want to go further. It is important for environmentalists that a more central and active role be retained in Parliament, to which the Constitution, it should be recalled, reserves in principle interference with fundamental rights. If, of course, in the early days of a crisis, it can be admitted that the government is acting without delay to preserve the lives and health of citizens, the balance between powers must be restored quickly. In view of the extent of the interference envisaged here, it is all the more crucial that Parliament remains at the centre of the game and strengthens the legitimacy of decisions through its intervention, while at the same time ensuring effective judicial remedies for citizens. My colleague Van Hecke will look into it. Here we are trying to put in the text strong markers to ensure the democratic management of a health crisis. There can therefore be no question that these beacons can be circumvented, either by local authorities which would not be subject to them or by the concurrent application of less restrictive legislation. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have also been called upon to exercise caution in our work. We are legislating not only for the immediate but for the future and we do not know what this future will be about. It is today that we must carefully define the framework for intervention, provide in the text sufficient parliamentary and judicial controls a priori and a posteriori to avoid the concentration of powers in the hands of a future executive which could be less well-intentioned. It is from these possible abuses that we safeguard the lawfulness.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u17	On the question of the balance of powers, we are in the midst of a growing debate. The decision to forward the information to Parliament was heard during the discussion of the draft bill. You have just said that in the most acute phase, in the first days, we can give power to the government. What do you think of Ecolo? Once the first two or three days have passed, does the decision-making centre of gravity of the actions to be taken return to Parliament or can you accept the idea that ministerial orders, once the pandemic has been declared, keep the centre of gravity? Basically, in the debates we have now on the balance of powers, are you open to putting the centre of gravity of decision-making at the level of Parliament? You will have noted that the preliminary draft before us today is moving towards a centre of gravity constituted by the executive. I am not talking about the exchange of information, but rather about the decisions taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u18	Mr Hedebouw, thank you for this speech. I think I have been quite clear about the desire to ensure a strong role for Parliament. My colleague Van Hecke will focus more on the question of the form of this Parliament's involvement, in particular because of the effective judicial remedies that must be preserved for citizens. During the hearings, many questions were heard in this regard. We'll have an opportunity to get back to it. If I may, I will let you listen to my colleague on this. My third and final point is the strengthening of mutual trust between politicians and citizens in order to confront the crisis together. Trust is probably one of the essential ingredients of successful crisis management. This has been recalled throughout our hearings. We believe that the Pandemic Law can focus more on building that confidence and thus so crucial adherence. I'll give you two illustrations. Article 7 of the current text provides for widespread use of rather severe criminal sanctions in cases of transgression. In principle, criminal law is the ultimate subsidiary remedy limited even in cases of emergency. The Supreme Council of Justice calls for more moderation and modularity in sentences. He pointed out, for example, that the proposed floor penalty (26 euros) resulted in an amount actually paid in excess of 500 euros. What is in itself high and not the same for everyone. We believe that, for these reasons, it would be a good idea to take a step of trust in the ability of citizens to show respect and solidarity – which has been the case for the vast majority of them. We could then reserve criminal sanctions to the most serious transgressions, those that are repeated and intentional and, above all, that pose a real danger to public health. Confidence is also generated by clear and accessible communication, through a predictable standard, through increased transparency in decision-making. To this end, the composition of expert committees may need to be better regulated by the text, including assurances of no conflict of interest. Scientific data on the basis of the measures and the justification for their proportionality could also be made available to the public. With this concern for transparency, debate and publicity, we are at the very heart of parliamentary work, both when we control the government and when we make laws. All decisions must be subject to the test of discussion. We, environmentalists, are driven by the strong conviction that a good decision is a decision whose motivations can be made public and can be subject to debate. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this text is a positive step forward in relation to the current situation. Many opinions urge us to go further to significantly strengthen the protection of human rights, the involvement of Parliament and the democratic debate, as well as the transparency and confidence of citizens. My group is convinced that we can work together to ensure that the pandemic law meets those expectations. Today's interim order encourages us to move forward. We will, of course, continue to work constructively in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u19	Mr Van Hecke, before giving you the floor, I should like to inform you that you have a time of 9 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u20	Madam President, I have my clock with me. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take up three points in addition to my colleague's speech. First of all, there is the procedure that we have followed and the decision that we can have this debate today. I'm glad we can have the debate. You too? The reason we can feed it is unique. Never in the history of the Chamber has there been a debate on a preliminary draft law drawn up by the Government and sent to the Council of State, even before there is an opinion from the Council of State, before the Government can make changes and make a second reading, taking into account the opinions of the Council of State. Normally, a bill will only be forwarded to this Chamber afterwards. What we're doing today is unique. If I may say so, it was a suggestion from my former group leader, Kristof Calvo, who had called for one time to be creative and to have the discussion of such an important law in the past, even before it was translated into texts and is still difficult to change. That law lays the foundation for far-reaching action on a number of fundamental rights. I am pleased that the government and Parliament have followed that suggestion. But colleagues, when they do that, they are vulnerable. After all, we come up with a text which is not definitive. People come to Parliament and let go of the debate. Anyone can have their say. Everyone finds good and less good things in the text, as well as things that can't. Not only have we debated it, we have also organised hearings. More than 20 people, organisations, professors, experts and NGOs have been able to shed light on this text. A package of written opinions was added. Of course there was criticism. A lot of comments have been made. Is that bad? No. After all, if we have chosen to go down that road together and put forward a draft text for discussion with everyone from civil society and the professors, then it was also intended to listen to them, to take their comments and to improve the text on the basis of the various points of criticism. We await with great impatience the opinion of the Council of State, which apparently will be decided in the General Assembly. This opinion will probably also provide some very important fundamental comments, which we will also take into account. In fact, the government and the majority have shown an unseen openness which we have not seen in any assembly in debates on such fundamental matters. I challenge you to try to conduct this debate in other parliaments, even when it comes to concrete measures, which will be possible if this law, in whatever form, is adopted. A second aspect is transparency. We are all aware of the current way of working. The Consultative Committee meets and then a press conference follows, to which we listen carefully. We take note of the new measures taken: facilitations, reinforcements or extensions. The Consultative Committee shall include representatives of all governments. Many opinions are drawn up in advance for the Consultative Committee. All that results in a certain decision. Parliament has never really played a role in this, until today. We can ask questions, like every Thursday in plenary, and ministers can also be questioned in committee meetings, but we have not yet been able to hold a real debate on the measures, on how far we can go, on what considerations we have to make and on how proportionality should be assessed. However, we, as Members of Parliament, often also lack important information. On what basis did the government base itself on whether or not to take a particular measure? Reports are often the basis for this, such as epidemiological reports and expert reports, which are sometimes and sometimes not public. The text of this law states that all the important and essential information on which the government has based itself to take certain measures will also be delivered to the President of Parliament, in other words, to us too. That will allow us to have the debate. Not only at the very beginning, if it is to be decided whether the epidemiological emergency should be declared, but also then the underlying data from experts, among other things, must be delivered to Parliament so that we can have that debate with knowledge of the facts, but also whenever action is required, the reports will be delivered to us. That's essential. We expect the government to explain why a particular measure is being introduced, extended, limited or extended. We will therefore know what the government bases itself on, what the medical and scientific studies and documents are and what advice has been given. That's new and unique. This information will be given to us in Parliament. Then we will be able to have a qualitative debate. Given the situation and the opinions, we will be able to discuss whether or not a measure is proportionate and whether or not it is useful or necessary to limit the pandemic and to ensure that our hospitals are not flooded or blocked. Then I come to the third debate: how is Parliament going to do that? How are we gonna take that part? The current text states that Parliament has the possibility of abolishing all or part of the ministerial decisions in the light of the opinions it is likely to be royal decisions, because there has been a lot of discussion on this issue, which is being submitted, or whether it can be ratified by law. That is a novelty in the parliamentary system, so we still have to see what the Council of State thinks about it. Parliament will then, whether or not, endorse the proposed decision. This is a very important choice that we will have to make, which requires in-depth discussion and many opinions, because it has consequences. The other point I would like to raise concerns legal protection for citizens. If we are to take a good or less good course, it is to be seen how we look at it, when proposals from the government go to Parliament and the Parliament discusses them and makes a certain decision, can a dissatisfied citizen still go to court? Can he enforce legal protection? That is essential for us and the choice we make about what kind of decision we make has an impact on that. If we ratify a decision, it will become a law that can be challenged by the Constitutional Court. The problem is, however, that the Constitutional Court does not have an emergency procedure today, as the Council of State does. There is a suspension procedure, but it will soon take two months. If one chooses to do so, it will mean that it will be a long, difficult procedure and that it will not be possible to judge it as quickly as possible. Moreover, the second disadvantage of working with ministerial or royal decisions is that, if a court has to examine a measure, it can also render that measure ineffective. Article 159 of the Constitution may be invoked. Some police judges have done the same: some police judges have held that the decision was contrary to higher legislation, in particular the Constitution, and they have therefore disregarded it on the basis of Article 159 of the Constitution. If we ratify a decision and it becomes a law, then a judge can't do it anymore. A judge cannot ignore that law or he must refer a question to the Constitutional Court for a preliminary ruling and then we are six to ten months away. The other option is for the Council of State to remain competent, with the speedy procedure that exists, but then we have to think of something other than legal ratification. We can lift or not lift the slope that has been chosen. If we do not lift the slopes we have chosen here, it will remain a decision that can be challenged by the Council of State. The problem there is that it is difficult to repair serious disadvantage and the urgency requirement is sometimes an obstacle. But we can solve that, too. There have been experts who have said that we can agree that appeals against ministerial decisions or royal decisions, taken under the pandemic law, automatically accept the urgency, thus excluding that. If we want to go to the Constitutional Court, we can of course also amend the special law on the Constitutional Court in order to introduce an emergency procedure. Some say that the Constitution may need to be amended. If there is a two-thirds majority here and, moreover, a majority in each language group and a political will to amend the special law on the Constitutional Court and provide for an urgent procedure, as we know from the Council of State, then this may also be an acceptable solution. Then we can turn to the more natural judge, which is the Constitutional Court, as our guts indicate. In other words, the decision we have to make about the nature of our decision and our role is important and fundamental and has an impact on legal protection. That is why I think this prior debate is so useful. That is why these opinions are particularly useful. Legal protection and access to justice are essential. After a parliamentary process, they must also be guaranteed. Access to justice must also be ensured in a smooth way. The judge's ruling this morning also shows that a new legal basis is urgently needed. As early as October, I myself asked the first parliamentary questions about the validity of the measures and whether there is sufficient legal basis for them. I was the only one who asked questions about that then, Mr De Roover. So you do not have to lecture my group on the protection of fundamental rights and the fundamental debates that we want to have on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make useful use of this procedure. Let's work together to create a solid legal basis. Hopefully, in a few weeks' time, we will be able to approve it by a large majority in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u21	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a year has passed. I think it is healthy today to take a little step back to take stock, to show a little self-criticism, to take this necessary distance, to see what has been done and finally to improve it. How can we improve it? Perhaps by answering three simple questions. But, as we can see, the debates that have been leading us for the past year show us that the answer is complex. First, how can we protect our population in crisis? Secondly, how can we protect it within the framework of the principle of legality? Finally, how can we protect it by guaranteeing the fundamental rights and freedoms of our citizens? As I said, these are three simple questions but complex answers. Minister, this is the perilous exercise that you and the other members of the government have been working on. You have sent us a critical and perhaps critical text. But at least you sent us a debated text and you made the choice of openness. You have chosen a procedure that has never been seen before here in this House, namely to use the collective intelligence of 150 Members to ask for an opinion, no more or less. You have chosen to ask for a prior opinion, to take and compile this opinion, to feed on it and to enrich the work you had started in a second time before returning to us with a more elaborate, corrected text, which will eventually contain the product of our common reflections and exchanges. For this, we must thank you. Not only have you asked us for our opinion, but you have also submitted to this perilous exercise of transparency and openness by seeking the opinion of dozens of associations, structures, academics, constituted bodies. And, through this, it is all this technical experience which, in a momentum and a year after the beginning of a crisis never seen before, allows us to reflect together on the improvement of a text which must guide us towards the three answers to the three questions I have mentioned to you. First, we said: how can we protect our people and our fellow citizens in crisis situations? There, my colleagues referred to the court decision. I think that I will never hear such words, since it is the practice, in the end, to say that a decision of justice is not commented on in this House. I think you will, Madam Minister, have to hear a lot of comments on a court decision this afternoon. We need a law. You know that. You wrote it. You established it. But what law? This was my first message to you and to which you were receptive, I think, during the committees. It was to say that it is not just for us to declare and state that this law must be designed to manage and regulate emergencies. This law must be able to form part of a much longer, much more structural framework, which allows us, if we are in a situation of necessity or an emergency, to regulate it. I then made the proposal – it is still under discussion – to check whether this law, which we are discussing today, could not be more harmoniously integrated into a law that was the legal tool adopted by Parliament, namely the 2007 Civil Security Act, within a framework that is structural and coherent. Your tasks, under section 11 of the 2007 Act, are first to provide for, prevent, prepare, execute and assess a crisis or health situation; and then, if unfortunately necessary, to regulate an epidemic emergency. It is therefore only within this abnormal, dangerous or uncontrolled framework that we will enter an emergency phase with the associated consequences; but we would have shown, as a government, like Parliament, to our fellow citizens that all the necessary and preliminary measures have been set in motion to achieve this. This has already been said: this law does require definitions. The first is the issue of the epidemic emergency. We are all aware today that this epidemic emergency as defined in section 2 of the bill can be clarified, but that it is already marked. It seems to me – and I have already indicated – that perhaps one aspect, which is the territorial aspect, could be added. The criteria should be clarified, and above all, and you yourself in committee should foresee something important. If this law today marks the criteria for entry into the epidemic emergency situation, it does not mark the criteria for exit. We must be able to send the following message to the population, indicating when we enter, but also – as the news reminds us – when we leave this epidemic emergency and the measures that accompany it. This enlargement, entry and exit can only be decided – and it was discussed at length – with epidemiologists and academic experts. We have asked, and you have been sensitive to it, that these expert committees cannot be appointed by a mere annex to a royal order. In our view, there should be more determined ways of making up such committees, as well as step-by-step work. Indeed, if we know that the medical, statistical and epidemiological criterion is the first criterion of entry, it is clear that when a situation such as ours persists, other impacts may occur. Therefore, it is not unnecessary to endorse this committee of experts from other specialists and to consider possible further opinions. I had submitted the proposal, but we already have a law passed in 2019, establishing a Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. In my view, when a health situation continues, a human rights impact assessment is not unnecessary and could be provided for in the draft bill we are discussing today. My second concern is how to protect our fellow citizens, bearing in mind the principle of legality. There are three requirements in this regard. First of all, the legal basis must be indisputable. Secondly, it is important to give confidence to citizens through active publicity and special motivation for measures. Finally, they must be monitored by parliamentary and judicial means. I will start with the non-disputable nature of the legal basis. In a decision that has been communicated to us today by the press, we are being asked for a law. That is why we are gathered today. Now, there is a law, the law of 2007, which you have used so far. As such, it is interesting to read paragraphs 65 and 66 of the interim judgment. It states that if, at the beginning of the crisis, the 2007 law could provide an acceptable legal basis, the continuing circumstances force us to adopt a more specific legal basis. This may argue, as I said at the beginning of my speech, for the evolution of the 2007 law rather than for a new legal basis. But it will be up to us to determine the best tool. Certain definitions should also be reviewed. As I said, the notion of governor is not exactly the same in the draft bill under consideration as in the 2007 act that needs to be clarified. The concept of administrative police is, for its part, the subject of a slight misappropriation which must be corrected. But it is not intended to govern all human activities in general. Citizens must be given confidence through active publicity and special motivation for the measures taken. How? By simply making public and forwarding without delay to Parliament, first of all, a report containing all the procedures for forecasting and evaluating which should have led to the avoidance of this epidemic emergency; secondly, the scientific data enabling the setting up and launching of the epidemic emergency. This active publicity, this scientific data generated and focused many criticisms for opacity. A particular academic person even said that the expert groups had the opacity of a Scottish loch. They have therefore aroused criticism, distrust and distrust, while it is known that people's membership is now necessary. This simple measure of active advertising and special advertising should, in my view, reassure many citizens. As has been mentioned by my colleague, Stefaan Van Hecke, we will also need parliamentary scrutiny and judicial review of the measures. Today, what tool is the right one? Nobody knows exactly. No one knows this because if one offers the advantage of greater parliamentary scrutiny, it presents the disadvantage of judicial review much less legible and far less easy. The other offers the advantage of easy judicial review, but with reduced parliamentary scrutiny. These questions were discussed a week ago. I must admit that I was delighted and even pleased to hear you say that we must continue to think together in order to find this necessary and precarious balance in order to involve systematically and in all phases Parliament, which, in the end, is legally representative of democracy, while ensuring that judicial review can be effective, because our democracy is conceived on the basis of three powers. We see the importance, today, of the third power. Finally, a third question arose: how can we control a crisis situation while having a democratic demand that is never lowered? As I said, the first element is the publicity of the debates. It is, in my view, the only remedy for concerns, certain forms of propaganda, the emergence of conspiracy, conspiracy and populism. Secondly, and we share it, it must be said that our fundamental rights and freedoms are our common heritage. There will never be a question of giving up on it. In this respect, it is necessary to ensure its effectiveness in two areas: the first, which I will mention quickly, is that of personal data and privacy. The right to privacy is a fundamental right that must be guaranteed and preserved. There are many concerns today about this famous section 6 of the draft bill. There are two hypotheses. The first is a pure and simple withdrawal from this article 6. This withdrawal would be accompanied by the joint pursuit of the work and work of collective intelligence, and the construction of another piece of legislation. In fact, we have in this chamber voted for various cooperation agreements, including vaccination, quarantine, tracing, tracking, etc., which contain each part of the processing of personal data. So that in the future we do not continue to build a model on the basis of cooperation agreements that seem unsatisfactory to many, we would build a model, a holistic legislative text that takes into account all these issues and is discussed here. The second hypothesis is the maintenance of this article, subject to correction and clarification as to the persons whose data would be identified, and as to the strictly necessary data, as to the controllers, as to the role of the Information Security Committee, as to the publicity of the data, as to the methods of deletion, as to the citizen's access to his personal data and I pass on. As you know, this article should be corrected. Finally, there are fundamental freedoms and rights and, through them, the measures taken in a situation of epidemic emergency and possibly – I say so on purpose – the penal sanctions attached to them. Should coercive measures be taken at the outset or should they be subsidiary? That's a real question. What gradation in the measurements? I was saying, it may be – and I don't think it's intentional – awkward in the preliminary draft to have indicated "closure" before "limitation". I think that when we are in a gradation message, we must be able to correct and reverse these two terms. We must have a requirement of legality, have a requirement of predictability in order for our citizens to adhere to these measures and thus deliver them in a comprehensive manner. This is the choice that has been made by the government. We need a numerus clausus of the measurements, to read them precisely. Finally, it is necessary to make litigious behaviour predictable for everyone. When I speak of predictability, it is a choice to attach penalties to these measures. Now, and it is a philosophical conviction that drives us all, a crisis cannot be the pretext for an extension of the penal net in our country. It's not the government's will, I'm sure, even if they wanted to lend it to him. This extension of the penal net must be avoided. To be avoided, it must be corrected by means of the predictability mechanism, through the confidence that can be made to the citizen, since a large part of our citizens have adhered and have complied with the measures. Should these issues and penalties not be subsidiary measures? If we decide, however, to impose criminal sanctions, which ones? That has been said, particularly in the opinion of the Supreme Council of Justice, would it not be more appropriate to allow the possibility of providing not for what is called criminal penalties but for police penalties, with the great advantage of automatic erasure, or, if a criterion of criminal penalties is maintained, to amend the Code of Criminal Investigation to provide for such automatic erasure? It could not be understood, tomorrow or in three years' time, that a young person who had been punished for not wearing the mask could drag a criminal record, with all the consequences we know. Finally, these measures must be subject to a systematic evaluation, since we are now regulating a structural framework, with a temporality of three months and which, depending on the discussions we have already had, could be reduced. We see over the past year that practice has caught up with us much faster than this text. If we had to wait every three months, we would be in our fourth ministerial decree, where we are, I think, more than 35 ministerial decrees for almost a year. There is therefore a need for an ongoing evaluation mechanism. I think it is sound to foresee this permanent evaluation in the text. Madam Minister, I conclude with a small quote: "The greatest journey begins with a step". This first step, you did and we did it with you. There will be others for the better, I think, for the benefit of our citizens, to give them confidence, to show them that even in special and crisis situations, our rule of law will never be able to collapse and that our fundamental rights and freedoms are our most precious asset. I am sure that you share this and I will already give you an appointment within a few days or weeks to discuss a text that you will bring back to us, I am sure, amended, corrected and improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister: better late than never, this pandemic law! In addition to the existing legislation, which is clearly insufficient today, it is urgently needed. She's also been urgently needed for some time. I hope that this pandemic law will still be useful for this coronapandemic. The urgent need to put an end to legal certainty was once again confirmed today by the judgment of the Brussels Court of First Instance, and how! It condemns the Belgian government to put an end to the corona measures within 30 days, on penalty of a periodic penalty payment. I hope to be able to hear from you today, Madam Minister, about the concrete consequences of this. It is certainly an incredible disgrace for the government, which continues to work with ministerial decisions and which now, on the eve of 1 April, officially proves that it is itself the biggest April joke. That judgment shows that you had listened better to the criticism, and that a legal basis is indeed important and certainly not a legal one. I just hope that it will not be an argument today for the preliminary draft, as it stands today, to be adopted quickly, because there is still a great deal of work to be done. This was also apparent from the many written opinions and hearings. We discussed in detail in committee last week the far too broad and hypothetical definition of the term 'epidemic emergency'. I am convinced that it needs to be better defined, and I said that several times last week. You replied to a number of comments from the Flemish Interest Group, but also from other groups, that you will consider and study them all, and that you will await the opinion of the Council of State. Honestly, I expect no other answer today, as we repeat the same discussion in another room. I will confine myself to five essential elements for the Flemish interest. The first element is the role of the Länder. You forgot all about it in your preliminary draft. It is not because the Länder today do not excel in decisiveness in dealing with the corona crisis that they could not be given an important role in the future. The question of this effective role of the Länder was even raised by the governors in the hearings. There is no role for them at all, but for mayors and unelected governors. Not for the Länder. One confines oneself to a few non-committal consultations. There is not even any definition of what this consultation should look like. The role of the governor should also be examined carefully, if you are going to look at a number of matters again. Managing a pandemic is fundamentally different from maintaining public order. It is a matter of punctual short-term measures. Long-term measures restricting fundamental rights, such as the establishment of a curfew, are of a very different order. Democratic legitimacy is required for this, which a governor certainly does not have. Definitely worth investigating, Madam Minister, since last year's practice has shown that some unelected governors have become true sheriffs. I come to a second element, namely the unconstitutional ministerial decisions. The Brussels Court of First Instance today confirms what the Flemish Interest has been saying for months. Freedom-limiting measures are not taken with ministerial decisions. You say that this was not an absolute consensus in the hearings. The hearings and the written opinions were very clear. All constitutional specialists were also unisono. I quote a few. Professor Vuye said, "It is flagrantly contrary to the Constitution." According to Professor Popelier, the authorisation to the Minister of the Interior is problematic. She says that the preliminary draft simply perpetuates unconstitutionality. "A blank cheque," according to another constitutional specialist, Professor Verdussen: an over-authorization, a far too important role. If my speaking time were not limited, I would give many more. Who am I to contradict all these experts? You really do not have to wait for the advice of the Council of State to determine the unconstitutionality and decide that you cannot continue with ministerial decisions. This preliminary draft gives you too many powers, which are also too vague. Reference has already been made to the formulation of physical and sanitary measures. We discussed this extensively in committee last week, it is far too far-reaching and the broad wording opens the door to excesses. It needs to be updated and made much more detailed. A third element I would like to consider a little longer is the principle of proportionality. On page 5 of the explanatory memorandum, a broad discussion is made on this subject, with the right conclusion that the measures taken by the administrative police must be strictly necessary, limited in time and proportionate to the objective pursued. This is also reflected in Article 10 (2) of the preliminary draft budget. What, however, is proportional? This is a difficult discussion, which can be interpreted. Let me give you an example to illustrate that. In Catalonia, a peaceful referendum was held on 1 October 2017 in which Catalans could vote democratically on their future. That referendum ended in a day of violence. The Spanish police brutally invaded the polling stations and drove the people apart with rubber bullets. These were people, including the elderly, who wanted to cast their democratic vote. Almost 1,000 people were injured. In my opinion, such violence is scandalous and outrageous, but in the opinion of the Dutch socialist Frans Timmermans and then European Commissioner Marianne Thyssen, the violence of the Spanish government was proportional. They believe that the state may use force if that is proportionate. That is not true, however, because violence by a government can only happen if it is absolutely necessary, otherwise it is flagrantly contrary to Article 2 of the EU Treaty. However, that is not at all relevant at the moment, and I would just like to use this example to illustrate that opinions on what is proportional or not can be very different. This is difficult to establish objectively, which also poses a danger. Objective control of this is therefore essential. In addition to an advisory body provided for in the preliminary draft, the pandemic law should also provide for an independent control body. Preferably, its composition is also included, with at least objective criteria and profiles determined by the law itself. In this way the objectivity of these bodies is guaranteed and at least we do not run the risk of becoming political instruments. A statute must also be drawn up for the experts, because I do not think that one can be an expert and an opinion-maker at the same time. In your explanatory statement on the principle of proportionality, it is also stated that the measures must be based on the latest scientific findings. I fully agree with that. But there must also be control over that. In fact, current events show that this is necessary, because up to today, people are sinning against that principle. The measures currently in force for schools, hairdressers and other contact professions, and non-essential shops, for example, do not appear to be based on the most recent scientific findings. Now take the new rules for non-essential stores. The measures were decided on Wednesday 24 March. On Thursday 25 March I asked the Prime Minister about the scientific basis behind it, but I did not even get an answer. Two days after the decision, you replied, Madam Secretary, to the logical question in the VTM journal about the number of infections in non-essential stores that those figures were still being looked at. Let it be understood to you, ladies and gentlemen, a measure that is estimated to cost the sector a billion euros in turnover is not based on figures. A monitoring mechanism on the scientific basis and on the strict necessity must be provided for in the pandemic law in order to avoid the damaging wet fingering in the future. What is not provided for in this preliminary draft is proportionality in terms of punishment. Clear measures, with at least no ambiguity about their scope, would already help to counter legal uncertainty. But above all, punishment must be proportionate. Some magistrates feel called to set examples against their task. There are judges who have pronounced effective prison sentences for eating with ten people outside pizzas or for a dive in a private swimming pool outside. That condemned young people are saddled with a criminal record, with all the consequences for such offences, while other young people are allowed to set fire to Brussels police combi's unpunished, they are not explained to a sensible person. Justice is already overloaded and underfunded and does not work properly. So record the penalties for the worst cases and modulate the penalty rate in the pandemic law. Fourthly, with regard to data processing, I should like briefly to refer to the destructive opinion of the Data Protection Authority on this matter, which states that Article 6 of the preliminary draft directive infringes the principles of legality and predictability, that it violates the principle of transparency and that it no longer demonstrates the need for data processing. I will not repeat the full opinion here. However, its content may not be minimized at all. For the Flemish Interest, all comments of the Data Protection Authority should be taken into account. The simplest thing will be simply to delete Article 6 from the preliminary draft and to regulate data processing in a separate law. Finally, as regards the guarantee of parliamentary debate and control, Article 9 of the preliminary draft provides that the relevant ministers report to the Chamber each month. According to the explanatory statement, this could be a written or oral report. Therefore, if a written report is to be submitted to the Chamber, no parliamentary debate will of course be created. There is no guarantee of a parliamentary debate. It is now suggested in the explanatory statement that there is a possibility that a special committee would be set up. However, we know how this is done in practice: when a compliant majority votes against the creation, no substantive debate is possible. If the government is serious, it must immediately regulate the establishment and operation of such a control body in the same pandemic law. When I denounced the lack of parliamentary consultation in the current measures over the last few months, Question Time was referred to on Thursday, as Mr Van Hecke has just done, as if there could be an in-depth debate with the limitation of two questions per group and also the limitation of two minutes' speaking time. It is not just called Question Time and not Answer Time, because answers to our questions rarely come. The answer text that the Excellencies will be reading during that hour is already ready before our questions have been asked. In Question Time, I referred to the lack of parliamentary consultation on the ministerial decisions of the past few months, but you said, Madam Minister, that there is indeed consultation, referring to the Council of Ministers, the experts and the Länder. That consultation is indeed necessary and useful. There are currently no less than 39 task forces working with the governments in this country. I'll let you consult with anyone, if that's what you think is useful, even if it's with your gardener or your grandmother. As long as the final debate and the decision are taken in Parliament, consultation may take place. That is the essence of parliamentary democracy, but it is not included in your preliminary draft. The guarantee that there can indeed be a contradictory debate and that the Chamber, if necessary, can use its constitutional right to claim a minister, must be entered in the pandemic law. The content of the text does not become more democratic, because the word democratic is very much included in the text. Finally, the participation of the majority of Members of Parliament in our country is not to be underestimated. We have already experienced this on a number of occasions. That is why, as I did in committee last week, I would like to ask you to consider the option given by Professor D'Hooghe in the hearings, namely that the ratification of the epidemic situation, like many other matters in this country, would be carried out with a two-thirds majority, if only to restore public confidence. That ambition was included in the coalition agreement. This is more necessary than ever in the OECD's international survey of the Gallup research agency, which we were able to take note of yesterday. Less than 30% of Belgians still trusted the federal government in 2020. Only in Poland is the OECD still more suspicious. Even Brazil, Colombia, Russia and Turkey are doing better in the eyes of their own citizens. Mr Van Hecke is now gone, but he just sang praises for the uniqueness that a preliminary draft is being discussed in the hemisphere. The fact that the preliminary draft is being discussed today is already proof of the need for urgent legislative work, even though it has always been denied that there was a faulty legislative basis. By the way, if one calls it a great democratic act of renewal which is being discussed for the first time in Parliament a preliminary draft law, remember that after a year of unconstitutionality one swallow does not make spring, even though we are past 21 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u23	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the time is, I believe, historic. Others have said that our Parliament is meeting today to discuss a text which, in a way, tends to frame action to avoid the worst. This preliminary project is intended to create an unprecedented legal framework for an unprecedented crisis, at a time when our capacity for intensive care beds may soon be half occupied. Allow me, Madam Minister, to welcome the initiative taken by you and this government to launch this democratic debate in Parliament on the text of this preliminary bill on the epidemic emergency, well ahead of the usual legislative process. We were ready for a debate on this and here we are! It is all the more relevant in the light of the decision of the Brussels Court of First Instance, given this morning as an interim measure. As Liberal Reformers, our position is very clear: the preliminary draft takes into account the concerns we have expressed about the adoption of a general law that would have imposed restrictions on our freedoms in a lasting manner. We would have said no to a law that would have frozen restrictions on freedoms, provided for systems of requisition and curfew in an automatic manner. Let us always remember that democracy is not an acquit engraved in marble and we all stand here. The situation we have been in for more than a year and the deprivations of our most essential freedoms deserved this exceptional procedure that you wanted to initiate. Our right to work, to gather together, that of our children to go to school and to play sports, our right to see our family and friends as we see fit or to travel, are limited. The supervision of such measures deserves this exceptional procedure, which has allowed civil society, the academic world, experts and managers of the current crisis to bring us, to give you, to enlighten you and to explain their expectations. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of them for the high-quality contributions to this debate. One conclusion that cannot be contested is that the expectations expressed are different, that they have different objectives depending on whether they are on the side of crisis managers or on the side of civil society and citizens. It will therefore be up to you, Madam Minister, to make decisions on the line the government wishes to take with you. Compromise between efficiency and legality, between pragmatism and respect for the various interests involved will undoubtedly have to be achieved. I have noted that you are waiting for the opinion of the Council of State to decide between the various avenues put forward in the hearing. We, too, look forward to that opinion. Given the importance of the potential implications of this draft law on the opinions of our fellow citizens and on our freedoms, the MR intends to set its benchmarks. Indeed, freedoms are not negotiated. First, Madam Minister, with all the hearings, we want your preliminary draft to be more transparent, particularly with regard to the triggering phase of the outbreak emergency statement, its maintenance, the choice of administrative police measures and the maintenance of those measures. We believe that transparency is really the basis for people's adherence to and respect for the measures in a sense of collective responsibility. This is essential, especially when the situation persists. After a year of this crisis, closures and reopenings, we unfortunately see that membership is at the lowest. In our view, therefore, the preliminary draft should include the obligation to explain on the basis of which studies, statistics or certainties – if figures are not available – it is decided, for example, to limit the famous bubble, to close certain shops, to reduce certain services or to close schools. It is essential to ensure transparency in working with the citizen and not to impose rules that he or she sometimes feels like rules that he or she does not understand. This transparency is justly a matter for Parliament. So we come to our second request. In order to ensure a genuine democratic debate, Parliament should have a longer period than two or five days to decide on a declaration of epidemic emergency. Effective parliamentary scrutiny is indeed one of the conditions under which the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe makes a declaration of urgency conditional. This is part of what the Venice Commission calls the "Constitutional Heritage of Europe" with judicial scrutiny. Another essential condition, with parliamentary scrutiny, is judicial review. That's our third request. We cannot see any judicial review as effective, since the Royal Emergency Order would be confirmed by law. I will not go into the technical details – other colleagues have done so – concerning this competence of the Constitutional Court or the Council of State on the control of the declaration of emergency that would be passed by a law. A number of avenues have been put forward, such as monitoring by the Administrative Litigation Section of the Council of State. But I must say that we are still equally sensitive to the argument of the mix of genders, since we would see ourselves here with an administrative jurisdiction that would exercise control over a law. However, should the use of a law to ratify the declaration of emergency be abandoned? No, that doesn't sound like a good idea. Judicial review must also be effective in relation to orders that take administrative police measures. Firstly, these ministerial decrees, although in the preliminary draft they are intended to be deliberated in the Council of Ministers, must in our view undoubtedly become deliberate royal decrees in the Council of Ministers. Secondly, in order to make the remedies effective, it may be necessary to provide for the extreme urgency before the Council of State to be presumed. But we look forward to the advice of the Council of State in this regard. Our fourth question is that, beyond Parliament, transparency must be achieved. For us, this also means making available to the general public the scientific and other information on which the declaration of an emergency situation is based, and also on which the administrative police measures are based. Some organizations are already publishing their data, but there may still be ways to improve it. On the other hand, it is clear that scientific studies must be produced by experts who have all the legitimacy required. These studies must be subject to peer review, a peer review. We also advocate the introduction of rules for the appointment of experts and conditions to ensure that there is no conflict of interest. Why, for example, should we not be guided by the obligations to declare mandates that are based on certain agents and elected officials?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u24	Mrs Gilson, I hear you come with proposals and criticism of the text. My question is about the very principle of a pandemic law. Does your group support the very existence of a pandemic law or not? Indeed, I note that on February 3, 2021, Mr.Bouchez stated that "the measures of freedom must not survive the pandemic. They must disappear within a minute. Integrating this into the legal arsenal means taking the risk that it will be active at other times." You yourself have said that some dictatorships have sometimes been born in history, sometimes relying on parliamentary texts, and that freezing restrictions on freedoms, requisitioning systems, curfew, is not acceptable. Mrs Gilson, for the sake of clarity, I wanted to know whether you were in favour of the principle of a pandemic law. Or are you against it, as was stated a month ago by your President, Mr Boucher and by yourself?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u25	Mr Boukili, perhaps you did not pay attention at the beginning of my speech, where I recalled precisely that, for us, a law which, automatically and permanently, would have frozen restrictions on freedom was not acceptable. But we find ourselves in the current process that has been initiated by the government because it is a debate with Parliament, a safeguard by Parliament, a judicial review, an administrative review. This procedure that we initiated in committee with three-day hearings is proof that there is an extreme concern for the preservation of freedoms. Democracy must indeed be preserved. It is always a delicate game in times of crisis to see how far one can go to manage the crisis, while preserving freedoms. We recommend the multi-disciplinarity of expert groups and committees – in any case, when the epidemic emergency continues – and also consider a broad, representative range of experts in economics, social, mental health, and human rights associations to determine upstream and downstream the impact of the measures that would be decided. Similarly, the effects should be assessed from a general point of view, with regard to the equality of men and women and the situation of persons with disabilities – for which our Parliament has just added an article to our Constitution. Some speakers proposed to entrust the mission to the Federal Institute for Human Rights, created by the law of 12 May 2019. This suggestion seems to us to be one of the avenues to consider. The multidisciplinarity of experts is also essential to ensure the proportionality of measures restricting freedom and, therefore, to better legitimize them to the people who, as we know, are making a great deal of effort with great resilience. In order to ensure such proportionality and an assessment of the measures, we also question the potential benefit of using this mentioned tool: the pandemic barometer. Fifthly, I come to the administrative police measures. They must be as clear as possible. However, many of the remarks made during the hearings indicated that Article 5 of the preliminary draft was somewhat too vague. At the very least, it is necessary to clarify what is meant by the term "the determination of physical or health measures" in order to better frame the delegation to the King. In fact, in our constitutional system, royal decrees are used to enforce what is determined by law. We understand, of course, how difficult it is to lay down provisions and draft a project to cover crises other than that of the covid and thus other pandemics whose spread is still unknown to us. Minister, we are fighting the spread of covid. That's our goal. It's yours, too. It is a fight that, to be won, must be collective. Let us not forget that there are other avenues, such as what is now under way: vaccination, the provision of health care to ensure that this crisis is managed. In order to ensure that administrative police measures are accepted and respected, we really encourage you to try to find the tools mentioned here to ensure that the public is committed to the measures. Of course, when membership is lacking, then it is necessary to move on to the repressive side. For the Liberals, and this is our sixth request, the sanctions that you are proposing could be improved or modified. For us, it is difficult to provide for correctional penalties that have as a corollary a criminal record for three years simply for not wearing a mask, whether intentional or not, or for organizing a lockdown party. We are very much asking for a proportionality of the penalties. Other suggestions were made during the hearings, such as providing for alternative sentences, work sentences, probation measures, the settlement, the possibility for the judge to grant mitigating circumstances, limiting criminal sanctions to intentional acts and actually endangering the health of others, and instead providing for communal administrative sanctions even though I have heard that there is a different vision between the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, the representatives of the bar associations and the College of Attorneys General. As you can see, there were many leads, but for us, one thing is clear, it is really not proportionate to be with a criminal record for three years for not wearing a mask. Finally, last but not least, for our group, Article 6 on the processing of personal data should be reviewed. That's indisputable. There was some doubt at one point as to whether the Data Protection Authority had access to the last final text of the preliminary draft, but this has been well confirmed in committee, the opinion concerns the final text. The fact that Parliament in this text confirms the royal decrees on data processing unfortunately does not meet the principle of legality, which is inevitable when, as in this crisis, there is still a significant interference in the right to the protection of personal data. In other words, it is not sufficient, therefore, for the law to list the elements that can be used to create data processing and for the rest to be determined by a royal decree. However, this preliminary draft provides that a royal decree may supplement the categories of data to be collected and may add the categories of persons to whom the data will be transmitted. The same latitude is given for the categories of measures which, for some, are quite vague, as well as for the purposes of data collection. It's not right. It is the law that must indicate from the outset who does what, with what data and for what purpose. Some speakers said – and this speech has been breached by experts – that it must be stopped saying that the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) are a hindrance to the fight against the pandemic. The GDPR does not prohibit anything, does not authorize anything, but it determines the conditions for the implementation of a processing of personal data. It provides a process, instructions for use, namely that the essential data of the processing must be provided by law. This even seems to me to be part of the predictability of the criminal sanction, because, to the extent that the data will be used to verify compliance with the measures, the citizen must know what behaviour is reprehensible, but also what means are in place to detect such reprehensible behaviour. Throughout this pandemic, legislation has introduced data processing. And that same remark was made every time. Why a law? Because Parliament must be able to check whether the treatment is necessary and proportionate to the objective pursued. It is not enough for Parliament to intervene fifteen days later, since now we are faced with a fait accompli. It will therefore be necessary to find a solution, Madam Minister, in order to respond to the criticisms that have been made about section 6. The proposals have been many and constructive. The most transparent solution has been mentioned by my colleague, Mr Aouasti: it would be to create a specific law on the processing of personal data in times of pandemic, since today the government knows very well what data it needs, for what purpose and who should have access to it. The need for a cooperation agreement is not an argument since, again on Monday, we discussed a cooperation agreement. These agreements have, moreover, been the subject of quite intense activity in recent months. This is quite remarkable when the cooperation agreements used to take time. If different scenarios are possible, it still seems to us that two points should be the subject of our attention in conjunction with Article 6. This is compatible further processing and transmission to third parties through the Information Security Committee alone. For us, this is not acceptable in terms of legislation and GDPR. Minister, we are confident that you and the government will take into account the quality contributions that have been produced by representatives of academia and civil society. Choices must be made. The MR group supports you in this process and will be at the rendezvous to work towards this goal. It will obviously be necessary to find balances acceptable to all, always with the objective of preserving our freedoms and privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u26	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when I recently read how the various governments on the various continents 50 years ago dealt with Hong Kong flu, with more than 1 million deadly victims and with clinics that did not have the capacity to take care of sick people, with hardly any government intervention and hardly any intervention by the government, I noticed that the difference is heavenly. That's a good thing, because that's how we saved a lot of lives. The difference may not be accidental or neutral in terms of our rights and freedoms, but why are we reacting a little less violently and later to a partial or an entire lockdown than was previously the case? Is it because we've become richer and more prosperous and healthier? Is it because we are getting older now, because we are afraid of losing more and therefore want more safety, more security and protection than then? If safety has become so important, it is not unusual for us to react more and more violently when this safety is at risk. Mr De Roover will no doubt remember that five years ago, after these dramatic attacks, he argued against Article 187 of the Constitution, for an emergency, for restricting freedom of expression, and for the introduction of private detention. Well, ladies and gentlemen, according to what I have just heard from Mr De Roover, the justified criticism he received at that time has been very beneficial. But, ladies and gentlemen, I think we should also look in the reverse every now and then. Not only have the views on security and its relationship with rights and freedoms been adapted in recent decades, they have also been adapted during this covid crisis, during the last 12 months. What did we do here a year ago? We have given power of attorneys to a government with nine parties, six of which are opposition parties. During that period, we gave little criticism to the then Prime Minister on the freedom-limiting measures that we then imposed in application of that power of attorney law. In the special committee there was more discussion about aid measures than about restrictions on freedom. That was the reality at the time. What did we do when the powers of attorney expired three months later? Then we switched to the system that still exists today: ministerial decisions. All that summer, and also in September, there was relatively little criticism of the system of ministerial decisions during the government in current cases, as is currently the case. That is also political reality, ladies and gentlemen. Anyone who is now very critical has passed them all by then. Even with academics, attitudes have gradually changed. It is only during the second wave, perhaps not entirely coincidental because at that time the debate on curfew was held in the Netherlands, that it started here. Madam Secretary, you were one of the first to advocate a pandemic law and were later supported by the government. That too must be said here. If some Members say that Parliament is merely the direct object of the COOVID-19 measures by means of these ministerial decisions, then they are adversely affecting our institution. During the Krokus holiday I asked how many questions have been asked here about COOVID-19 and about the government's measures since the new government took office. [[That was more than two thousand then, and hundreds have now been added.]] There have been dozens of interplays. There were debates here every Thursday. We can also exercise parliamentary control by means of traditional parliamentary means. When it is said that the Minister is now far too late with this preliminary draft, and later with the draft, I have to say, together with everyone, that it was not until February that we could read the first two opposition proposals in this respect. At first, I was not interested in submitting a preliminary draft before the Council of State had given its opinion and before the government could have amended the texts at second reading on the basis of that opinion. I have revised my opinion on this after what I have experienced in committee and also today in plenary. In fact, I think it is a good example of democratic renewal that we can discuss crucial issues such as fundamental rights in advance. This also gives us a little more freedom as a Parliament than when a draft has already been approved at second reading. In this way, we can hold a debate on crucial issues in advance. If I have listened carefully to the opinions of the various academics and others, I have found that they were not unambiguous. This was also not the case in the Dutch debate on the pandemic law. Everyone wanted a pandemic bill, but everyone disagreed on the content of that pandemic bill. I have the impression that this is also the case here. In the Netherlands, after that debate, the law was also amended. I am sure that this government, after receiving the opinion of the Council of State and after thorough reading of everything, will also amend those texts, in consultation with us, Parliament. I have also noted that opinions, which were not unambiguous, were often drawn up on the basis of the specialization and the subject area of the speaker or association. There is nothing wrong with that, on the contrary, but there were clearly other expressions. Those clamps weren't always compatible. That too is reality. The Crisis Centre gave advice other than some constitutional specialists. The constitutional experts did not agree either, but even the main critics of this preliminary draft law agreed on a matter, namely that there should be a pandemic law that would improve, inter alia for reasons of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u27	Mr Verherstraeten, I am a little surprised to hear you say that the constitutionalists were not unanimous. I found it very extraordinary that lawyers were on the same page once, but I have not heard any constitutionalist who referred to the preliminary draft Constitution. All of them, without exception, found the text of the preliminary draft completely unconstitutional. That the Director-General of the Crisis Centre has a different opinion than a constitutional specialist, that is logical, but I think everyone who was within the same field of expertise has said the same thing. Maybe I didn't hear it right, but I was surprised by that unanimity. Can you tell me which constitutionalist had a different opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u28	Mr Donné, you have heard with me the various proposals and suggestions for adjustments made by the constitutionalists. There were a lot of differences between them. There are those who have argued for a special majority. I'm not for that. With that, we only raise the bar and make it even more difficult. There are those who suggested to do ratifications in every parliament in this country. Imagine that. One state parliament, or the federal chamber, doesn't, and the other does. There's been diversity. There was a large majority on Article 5: MBs that were consulted in the Council of Ministers, which is a Novum, or KBs that were consulted in the Council of Ministers. But the opinions on this were not entirely unambiguous. Various suggestions have been made, including with regard to Article 6. Should it be deleted or modified? Was there a lot of criticism? Yes. Were there any other angles and angles? Yes. Were there any other proposals? They were very different.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u29	Mr Verherstraeten, you are good at avoiding a specific question. You said just now that you counted the questions that were asked about the measures. You should have counted the number of specific answers we have received to all these questions. Then one would have a shorter list. If I understood correctly from Mr Donné, the question was whether you could call one constitutional specialist who thought it was a good idea to work with ministerial decisions. I've been through all the hearings. I read the written opinions. Like my colleague, I noticed that there was consensus, that even all constitutional specialists agreed for once that the MBs were not a constitutional way of working. Can you name one constitutional specialist who thought that was a good idea to prove that I am wrong?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u30	The majority has taken a clear position in this respect. The second speaker was different in that respect. But let me make one thing very clear: when we change an MB into an RB, it doesn't only make a legal difference, it also matters in the facts. After all, a prior opinion from the Council of State will be required. If it is then very urgent and very urgent, I also think that we will have to amend the laws of the Council of State to at least ask for the advice to come sooner and faster. We will then have to give the Council of State the necessary resources if we are to achieve this. That's crucial. But you cannot deny that constitutionalists have also made a variety of suggestions. As far as the answers are concerned, Mr Pas, you will do it for the second time. In plenary, I have the advantage of being close to your group. So we hear each other. How many times have you been annoyed by statements by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health and Social Affairs and the Minister of the Interior, just because they answered the various questions that were asked in detail? Colleagues, I hope that we agree that a more legally secure framework should be created by means of a pandemic law. However, I also hope that we agree that such a law should allow for efficient crisis management. When measures or adjustments to measures are absolutely urgent, we cannot afford to waste time. We will not wait seven days for a parliamentary decision, as I read in a proposal. I would like to reappear on the retina of all of you the images of the last night before we entered the first lockdown, of the conditions in the cafes and of the number of infections they caused. We can't let that happen again. Secondly, if the government were to decide that there is a pandemic emergency and we should confirm that decision, which is good, then a period of two to five days would be too short? When a government declaration is given on a hundreds of pages of government agreement, we give confidence within 48 hours. Surely we need to be able to work efficiently in pressing circumstances in order to make a judgment at that time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u31	Mr Verherstraeten, may I interrupt you? Mr Boukili has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u32	Mr Verherstraeten, you're talking about going through a royal decree. The judgment delivered this morning, however, is critical of the fact that the opinion of the Council of State is not being given. By taking the "Royal Decree" option, the opinion of the Council of State can be avoided. How do you react to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u33	Mr Boukili, every Member should respect the authority of res judicata of any judgment. I'm doing the same thing. I haven't seen the verdict yet, so I can't give you any detailed comments on it. I have seen and read other judgments and judgments, an overwhelming majority, much more, which give a different reading. Judgments brought before the Court of Justice also give a different reading. Those too have authority of res judicata. Many of them now have the power of res judicata. We, as democrats, should respect that. However, I think it is important that, after the Council of State's opinions have been received, we do further study work. If we can further optimise the texts, I am in favour of doing so, if only to strengthen legal certainty. Such a judgment, however respectful, shows precisely that, because of the diversity of various magistrates on this issue, we need a pandemic law and we need to create a piece of legal certainty. Either way, I'm learning that from this verdict without reading it. Some Members have rightly referred to the legal protection of citizens. This can be done most quickly through the Council of State, in the event of an urgent need. The vast majority of academics agreed on this. I would say: let us strengthen parliamentary involvement if necessary, but let us maintain that legal protection for citizens, entrepreneurs and associations. I should also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that when we talk about the ministerial decision, as we have done today in an intervention, we point in one direction: the Minister for the Interior. Yeah, she's signed and she's signing on her own in that respect. But the previous phase is one with the Consultative Committee. We also state in our explanatory statement that there must be consultation with the Länder. The N-VA even forgets to put that in its proposal. We must be able to do that, as a Flemish nationalist! There is a decision by a full government and the ministerial decision is a translation of what was agreed with the Länder and with a full federal government. That is the reality! As far as sanctions are concerned, too, I would like to look in the rear-view mirror. I agree with those who say that perhaps we should provide for a little more diversity in our sanctions, with some lighter penalties for minor offences. By the way, does all this have to go to the police court? After all, a criminal record is given. Should all young people who commit such a minor offence be charged with a criminal record? We're not insensitive to those questions. Let us be honest, however, we discussed here more than six months ago a draft law laying down various provisions on the justice of the then Minister. They suggested friendly settlements and payment orders as in traffic cases, which resulted in no criminal record. However, the majority of this Chamber made a different choice at that time. I had to accept that at the time, but it might not be a bad idea to look at those texts again. In fact, I have the impression that some people's views have changed in the meantime. The debate on privacy and data protection is very sensitive and we will not avoid it. When I read the preambles to European regulations and also certain case law of the Constitutional Court, it is my legal belief that a law adopted by the Chamber is not absolutely necessary. However, this does not prevent me from understanding those who, if necessary, wish to provide a broader legal basis. I am in favour of that, too. The deletion of Article 6 is not enough, and another law is required. One can do that with this text or with another, but it has to be done. These legal principles must be fully anchored, but in any case, with parliamentary involvement, I would like to make a small outlet possible. One could then work with an additional KB, which was discussed in the Council of Ministers, following the advice of the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority. In this way, we can avoid being completely trapped when we are, in decades or hopefully never again, faced with a pandemic that is not expected. Parliamentary involvement and ratification are absolutely necessary, but here we can move forward by providing a broader legal basis. Colleagues, we don't live on an island. The same applies to the federal level of policy. That is why we call for dialogue with other governments, first and foremost with Europe, with a view to achieving the broadest possible European approach. Our Länder must also be involved, because measures to combat a pandemic are also being taken in their area of competence. This cannot be achieved without at least consultation and joint decisions. We also call for involvement with the local authorities, which I would like to pay tribute to the way in which they have done a very flexible and fast-shifting job on the ground. That will increase efficiency. Colleagues, as I said earlier, today's verdict, like a number of previous judgments, although contradicted, shows that there is a need for a balanced pandemic law, which is at the same time a basis for acceptance, preserves fundamental rights and protects the health of our citizens. The starting points for this are for us to say that they are in the justice system, but it is good that we also legally anchor them, temporaryity, necessity, an adequate character, proportionality, legitimacy, transparency and flexibility. The preliminary draft text represents steps forward in this respect. We can still adapt, after the Council of State has also shed its light on the texts. In any event, the final text will have to respect the balance between the various interests. I'm rounding up. The government will examine the texts further after the Council of State has given its opinion and hopefully also discuss them with Parliament. In view of the reports in the media, I hope that they will be wrong about a possible fourth wave in the autumn, so that after the Easter holidays we can look at the texts, discuss them and adapt them to what we have heard and read, so that we can tackle the next challenges ahead with improved legal instruments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, you have been congratulated by many Members in this chamber for bringing this debate to Parliament. That is indeed a good thing. But let me remind you of the context. This debate is taking place following the pressure and the democratic upsurge of our society. I no longer count white cards of lawyers, magistrates, constitutionalists who denounced the illegality and unconstitutionality of the measures taken over the past year. Moreover, within the population, there was also a beginning to question – rightly – the policy pursued. Parliament has been informed of this pressure and Members have called on you. It is therefore because of the pressure that you have submitted a text. Normally, the aim of this text is to address a democratic and legal problem. As the judgment before us this morning shows, your point of defence, which is to say that there is a legitimate legal basis for these measures, is not admissible. Justice has confirmed that the legal basis is not sufficient, thus confirming what we have been saying for weeks and that civil society has been denouncing for months. Madam Minister, today your role is to answer questions about these two aspects, namely the democratic aspect and the legal aspect. As far as the democratic aspect is concerned, your project leaves something to be desired. What's changing from the past? The pandemic crisis is declared by royal decree. Parliament intervenes a posteriori and expresses itself, if necessary, but the royal decree is taken by the executive. Once this royal decree has been approved, the necessary measures to deal with a health crisis will be decided by ministerial decree. The Royal Decree will act as a transfer of power from the legislature to the executive. The Minister of the Interior is thus given full powers. These ministerial orders will not be debated in this Parliament, either with civil society or with citizens. No, it will be a decision of the executive itself, without the participation of Parliament and without democratic debate. If your goal was to respond to the lack of democracy in decision-making, it is missed! The second point is the aspect of legality, the unconstitutional aspect of the measures that have been taken so far. I am not going to repeat it, but other colleagues have said so. All the constitutionalists interviewed confirmed the unconstitutionality of the measures. This was confirmed by the court this morning. But you, what you are doing to answer that, is not to question the relevance of the method, to tell you that we need to change its method, that we need perhaps to go through bills, parliamentary debates, and the involvement of civil society. No! You go back to the same procedure and present a piece of legislation, which you call the Pandemia Act, to make it legitimate, to legitimize what is unconstitutional. If that is your answer to the illegal aspect, it is also missed! Minister, we have criticized you for the illegal and anti-democratic aspect of the provisions. The measures that are taken in times of pandemic are strong measures, which have a very strong and very important social impact. I'm not talking about the independents who are suffering during this crisis. I'm not talking about contact jobs. I am not talking about the horeca that suffers from these measures. Lives are in question when you take this kind of action! And these measures also address fundamental freedoms. Come and go, curfew, for example. We could have had a debate on curfew instead of by ministerial order. I'm not going to say whether curfew is effective or not. We don't know, because we're not involved in the decision. I want to have scientific evidence to justify such a strong and intrusive measure. A curfew is imposed, without knowing the elements that justify its effectiveness. Maybe this is a good measure, maybe it's a bad one. We don't know! Furthermore, we know that 40% of the contamination occurs within companies. And the measures do not respond to that reality. So there is some inconsistency in your decisions. With the rise of numbers, we can talk about public transport! We've taken measures for trains, but we've got to be stuck in public transport (tram, bus)... There, the virus isn't circulating! Minister, you see that in this one-sided logic, that is, government decision-making alone, there is a clear inconsistency. It can be regulated and modified by collective wisdom. If you bring this debate to the community, Parliament and civil society, you may have better ideas and gain from them in terms of membership. For the problem is this: you are imposing measures that are now being challenged, some rightly, for lack of consistency, and you are not proposing any questioning of the policy that has been in place for a year. That is the fundamental problem of this law. You start from the principle, since you endorse what has been done for a year in a pandemic law, that what you have done for a year is good. That all the measures and decisions taken have been good choices! You are making a positive assessment of a catastrophic management of the health crisis! How come you didn't say – you or the government in the Codeco – that we've been putting in place measures that don't work for a year? We have closed the contact trades, the Horeca, and yet the numbers continue to rise. There's something that doesn't work! Have you ever thought, "Maybe we screwed up and have to review our copy and change software"? Do you really think that the management of this past year was the right one, to endorse it in a bill in the absence of a democratic debate? That, Madam Minister, I do not think so. You start from a bad assumption where you make a positive assessment of your management. You do not want to admit that the lack of public support is primarily due to the failure of your health policy – which you must call into question. You do not want to admit that restrictive measures are there to compensate for the failure you impose on the population. This is not the starting point to be put forward. It is not on the basis of your failures that a policy must be pursued. It is necessary to consider the measures to be put in place to be effective, how to involve the population in decision-making, and how to make this debate democratic. This requires a self-criticism that has never taken place in this government, nor in the previous government. Minister, another important element in terms of freedom is the processing of data. To process the data, there are laws. There's a logic. There are politicians. There are rules to follow. These rules are not respected in your bill. You do not determine the data that will be used, for what purpose, in what temporality and when they will be deleted to ensure the protection of the privacy of our citizens. In your bill, you ask that you be given a blank cheque to use the data of citizens without any control or compliance with the GDPR Act. Some spoke of adjustments to Article 6 or reflections to be made. But the experts we have interviewed about this article have been very clear: it must be deleted. As far as the processing of personal data is concerned, there must be a law in which the elements I have cited – proportionality, the purpose of the data, their temporality and the procedure to delete them – must be fixed precisely. This cannot be integrated into an article as you do, without any legal framework. This operation is required by the GDPR. Minister, I have spoken of membership and challenge of the measures. The fact that the measures are passed through legislation, i.e. following a parliamentary debate, implies that there is a vote on these measures. This would, in my view, prevent you from playing all this yo-yo game in the government and the parties that make up the majority. Indeed, how do you want there to be popular membership, when even those who make the decisions do not agree with each other? How is it that within the Codeco, a decision taken by the parties of the majority – I am thinking in particular of the MR which is the most represented party there – is denounced in the second by the majority? If there was a democratic debate and a vote, that would not happen because the vote expresses the will of each political group. There would be no room for this double game, which consists on the one hand of voting for the restrictions of freedoms and, on the other hand, of passing for the one who defends freedoms. We can't play with these elements. That is why it must be done in a public, democratic and transparent debate that ends with a vote so that everyone can take up their positions. Still on the question of membership, when one takes part in decision-making, one must set an example. How do you want people to respect certain measures, when Mr. Nollet stated that he did not respect them and Mr. Boucher stated that he understood that Mr. Nollet did not respect them? If there is to be agreement, minister, we need to work on transparency, on consistency of measures and on coordinating those who are concerned and who will be subject to those decisions and laws. We have to ask them for their opinion. This debate must be transparent and public and not go through a ministerial decree. Madam Minister, in conclusion, I will tell you that we are opposed to this pandemic law. This law is dangerous for our freedoms. It cannot hide the failure of your policy over the past year. If you attack our freedoms today, if you attack our fundamental rights, it is because your health policy to deal with the crisis has failed. First of all, that is what we must call into question! It is first of all on this that we must make a self-criticism, instead of replacing it with the lever of freedoms. We need to see what the clusters are, we need to develop a testing policy, a tracing policy, we need health measures to respond to the rise in numbers, but repression and sanctions must be the last resort, whereas in your project it is your starting point. Minister, you take the problem backwards! We must start from everything we need to do to deal with an epidemic crisis and maintain our rights and freedoms but not start from the other end, and from the principle of restricting our rights and freedoms to face your failure on the whole line and to respond to the policy that you have pursued to date and that has been challenged. Minister, this pandemic law is a danger to our democracy and I ask you to withdraw it. I ask you to present a proposal that guarantees the protection of our freedoms and rights, not a proposal that restricts them and sanctions them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u35	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Ingels for her report. My colleague Tim Vandenput attended the committee meetings. Today it is intended to have a debate in advance on the preliminary draft law, which must be able to provide an answer. We all hope that we will not need it in the event of future epidemics or emergencies. The instrument of the preliminary draft gives Parliament a greater role. Everyone's looking forward to a more normal life. Everyone is having a hard time, after a year of action that affects our lives and our contacts. The chalice is full, but the reality is that the number of infections is still increasing, that more people are still being admitted to hospitals and intensive care and that many people are still dying. We cannot deny that this is a situation in which rapid action is expected from the government and the government. Today, Parliament is intended to contribute to an instrument capable of dealing with such epidemics. We need to realise that we are not writing a corona law, but we are creating a general framework in which different scenarios can fit, depending on the epidemic that is coming across our country. It is a good thing that the government, as announced in the Prime Minister's beef in February, came to Parliament with this text at its preliminary draft law stage. The Committee on the Interior has heard a lot of experts in recent months. The guidelines and the comments they have made have also been very useful for the debate, but I have the impression that one has heard something different from the other, because the comments go in all directions. It is a good thing that a text is sent to Parliament in advance, for the opinion of the Council of State and for the opinion of the Data Protection Authority, but it is also daring, as Mr Verherstraeten has already pointed out. We are already examining the texts adopted by the government at first reading. They comment on it, not knowing what will be in the opinions of the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority. At a second reading, a new text should be adopted to which the necessary adjustments have been made. It is therefore new for Members of this House, but that is good, because it creates more involvement and discussion. The discussion is triggered and the ball is played briefly. I believe that this is what the people are asking us to do, to engage and to debate it, so that they feel represented and the opinions of the people, who are not all unisonos, can be discussed here. It is good that there should be ratification after a pandemic situation has been declared and that a report should be made to the Chamber. It is a good thing that this has been done in committee COOVID-19, which is responsible for controlling the powers of covid action. Servais Verherstraeten was chairman of that committee and I think I was one of his best customers, with three departments involved. These meetings have always been very open and we have always given a serious explanation and answered questions. So this report to the Chamber can also take such a form, in a special committee. We still have to decide what is the best way to build this parliamentary control. It is a good thing that the Minister came to the Committee on Home Affairs on Monday afternoon to explain the government's decisions there. It is difficult to find a balance between our freedoms - which we used to find so common, but which we now know is not so self-evident and which in such a situation cannot do everything - fundamental rights and the need to take these measures. Why are these measures being taken? Not to patronize people or to take away their freedoms, but to a different purpose. The aim of these measures is to save lives in our hospitals and institutions where daily care is given, and not to end up in a situation where one has to decide which patient one will treat and which one will not. This is about human lives and nothing else. That is what we are faced with in a pandemic, not just here in the hemisphere, not only in our country and not only in Flanders, Wallonia or Brussels but everywhere. All over the world, the pandemic is present, it affects freedoms and it makes people feel very bad about it. I would like to listen to you all about the legal impact, which is, of course, very important. However, we need to know why the measures have to be taken. The choices must indeed be motivated. The measures must be proportionate, necessary and temporary. They need to be maintained no longer than is necessary to clear up the situation in our hospitals and reduce the number of people dying of the virus. These measures are necessary in order to avoid worse and save more lives. It is indeed sometimes necessary to take urgent action. It is important that this urgency is there. After all, the longer it takes to take certain drastic measures, the longer it takes for the situation, the so-called wave, of which we are already experiencing the third, to be pushed down and the more the virus can spread. It is important that there is support for the people. That is why clarity, commitment and transparency are needed. It is therefore a responsible task for the scientific advice given not to scare people, but because they are really needed. That necessity must also be explained. It is also important to know what data are being kept and to see how they are being handled. I still expect a large number of questions from the Data Protection Authority. With regard to the cooperation agreement for the use of the Sciensano database, we had almost 300 questions to answer after the first reading of the Data Protection Authority. Maybe it won't be that many now, but it's still important. There is also the role of the Länder. Of course there's that part. Our country is institutionally organised in this way. The governors, who here get weird names from some members, and local directors have just like everyone else to take responsibility for. Questions may also be asked about enforcement, as well as the degree of sanctions. Should they be made modular and diversifying? Is there enough attention for more vulnerable groups? What is the role of the police courts in this matter? The final pandemic law that will be distilled from this discussion, but also from the adjustments made to the opinions by the Minister, will have to ensure that we are indeed better able to protect our constitutional freedoms. It must also be clearly explained to the public why certain measures are being taken and for how long, until when. That's what people are asking. Ladies and gentlemen, this preliminary draft is the first step. It is good that we are holding a thematic session on this subject. This will enable the debate to develop completely. Now it is awaiting the advice to be given. Then we will see each other again here and then the debate will take another turn. Hopefully we will be in a better situation by then and the light will be in sight at the end of the tunnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u36	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that we are having the debate here today and that all the groups were also asking for it. This hemisphere has also taken the time to conduct the debate thoroughly, with a procedure that has never been used before in Parliament. This procedure passes through a text, before it is finally approved by the government, here in Parliament and gives us time to debate it thoroughly, to invite experts, but also to amend the text where necessary and to give our opinions on it. It's good that we can do that that way here today. This is also an added value for the debate. Several speakers have already pointed that out, and I certainly agree with that. The pandemic law must do two things. Firstly, the law must ensure that there is a strong, solid legal basis for longer-term measures and, secondly, the law must ensure that we can debate them sufficiently. The role of Parliament must be defined and the debate on it must be guaranteed in the pandemic law. These two objectives should be linked to the rapid and effective introduction of measures. That balance must be preserved. The coverage today also shows once again why that is so important. Contradictory statements lead to confusion, less legal certainty or a loss of acceptance. A solid base is therefore definitely needed. In any case, the preliminary draft pandemic law, and the pandemic law that will eventually follow, will provide that clarity and legal certainty. That is absolutely necessary. It also ensures that the measures taken by all the governments in this country in the Conciliation Committee also have a solid legal basis. That is absolutely important. We must distinguish two things in the debate on the pandemic law, or on its preliminary draft: the legal basis and the role of Parliament. If a fire breaks out, they send the fire department. They'll make sure that fire is under control as soon as possible. Then they send all the fire trucks out there and they do whatever it takes. Only when the fire is under control can it be considered how the house can be made more fire safe and how it can be ensured that a fire can spread less quickly and can be slowed down. That is also the challenge in this crisis. The government is pursuing crisis policy and putting out the fire as soon as possible. Parliament is making the house more safe. It does, of course, carry out checks, but also ensures that longer-term thinking is given, that lessons are drawn and that they are framed. Let us be honest, there is also a reason why Parliament is controlling and not performing, a role that we have been taking up for over a year now. I have heard some people question whether Parliament has been given enough room to exercise control, to ask questions and to debate. It's a little hard for me to say that so often. I think that no one here can deny that the last period has been incredibly much debated. A lot of questions have been asked and there have been many discussions. No one will deny that Parliament has rarely been so active with additional meetings, additional committees, a biweekly COVID-19 debate with the Minister of Health and the weekly round of questions during the plenary session, not only with the Prime Minister, but also with the Minister of Health and all trade ministers. So the question is not so much whether Parliament has been given the room to debate, but rather whether Parliament has filled that space properly. Mr Verherstraeten, I have also done my homework and looked at how many COOVID-19 related questions have been asked in the past. That's over 3,000 in a year. Sometimes it's worth turning them over. It is certainly interesting to read the reports. There are a lot of interesting questions, including a lot of questions that really need to be asked in Parliament. However, there are a number of other things that can be seen when you look at these questions. [[It can only be said that some of the questions are being put again and again.]] The question is exactly the same. Some ask for data, information or figures that can also be found on the website of Sciensano. Some questions are also retabled after there has been a whole debate in plenary and the answer to them can be read in the report. This may be interesting for personal statistics, but it may be wondered whether this is the way in which Parliament has had to fulfil its role over the past year. Maybe we could have used that time differently. I hear some say that there are a lot of questions being asked, but that there are few answers. Nor is it our proposal to do so in an actua debate, but that is the result of the fact that 300 questions are asked every week. Then I wonder why we're doing it this way, why we've been so organized. I hear some parties shouting that there has been little debate, but at the same time we sometimes waste our energy on a lot of useless questions. I am sorry to have to put it this way, but if you follow up the reports, you will have to establish that. I also hear some parties shouting that Parliament should first be called upon in times of crisis. At the same time, however, we sometimes spend hours discussing procedures and, for example, in a committee, discussing who is and who is not allowed to speak in a hearing. After all, if there is to be a Dutch-speaking professor, then there must also be a French-speaking professor, and vice versa. We can discuss that for a long time. Parliament also calls for Parliament to be able to consider the measures to be taken. That is quite right, by the way. The possibility of discussing the ministerial decisions is now also available. At the same time, however, we also note that the first relaxations, when there was the opportunity to debate here, did not make use of this possibility. No one has requested the debate at that time. Does the Chamber have room to debate? Yeah, I'm sure it is. Does the Room always seize that space? I find it a bit unfortunate that sometimes 300 questions are asked a week and that some still call for an in-depth debate in this House. It is not that the Chamber cannot weigh on policy. We have a controlling function, but we can certainly also steer. It's not like we can't do this. We had a debate in plenary on 21 January a while ago. At that time, several political groups asked questions about a ban on non-essential travel. My group was there too. We discussed this, we debated it and the next day the Consultative Committee took a decision on it effectively. Surely any measure can be discussed here? In fact, we must do this thoroughly. I think it is the job of this Parliament. It is a pity that sometimes our time has been filled in differently, but I am convinced that this pandemic law will enable Parliament to play its role even better. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard 24 speakers on the preliminary draft. That gave us a great deal of thought, both about the role of Parliament and...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u37	So you think that Parliament already has enough opportunities to be dealt with and to have a say. Through actual questions and stuff, I suppose. You say that the pandemic law will make things even better, but the pandemic law will remove Parliament once the emergency has been identified. It's gonna get worse! To what extent do you think Parliament will be more involved than it is at the moment? We're in some kind of power of attorney situation. I really don't understand your reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u38	Mr Donné, I do not agree with your analysis. I just read in the preliminary draft pandemic law that a number of locks are being built in, which means that we will be debating these measures here in Parliament. An evaluation mechanism is being built in, and we will be able to debate it. That seems to me to be the right way to do it more thoroughly. I do not share your analysis at all. It is not a story or a story, it can also be an en-en-story, in which the government, of course, has to do a number of things as an executive, but in which Parliament can also play its part. It's not an or-or discussion: the two can be perfect together. There are a number of issues to be included in this preliminary draft, just to ensure that this is done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u39	Madam President, I fully agree with our colleague in her reply. If, unlike the government, this Parliament feels that there is no pandemic emergency, it will not endorse it. If after a few weeks or a month it thinks it's enough, it can perfectly revoke it. If measures are taken by the government in this preliminary draft and Parliament does not agree, then it can withdraw them completely. We just put all the documents, all the advice on the table. To say that this preliminary draft is not an improvement on the current situation, and certainly on the power of attorney, which you have agreed to, is a violation of the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u40	We had a certain agreement, which I regret, I must say frankly, because we do not have a debate. From the moment a group asks a question, the trump card has been played and that is where it ends. The N-VA has complied with that. There was also an agreement that questions would be put only to the speaker. I do not know, Mr Verherstraeten, what question you have put to Mrs Depraetere. I didn't find them. You have actually de facto addressed your colleague Joy Donné. This means that you have broken the agreement of the Conference of Presidents. This means that from this moment on I no longer feel bound to do so either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I was talking about the many points of thought that we have been given thanks to the experts, both to the role of Parliament and to the legal basis. The preliminary draft is also a step forward for both objectives and a step in the right direction compared to the current situation, as most speakers confirmed during the hearing. Can it go any further? Of course you can. It could always go further. We have heard a lot of proposals on this, one being a little more creative than the other. They used to go all the way, too. However, it is very important that we ensure that the balance is maintained between objectives and, on the one hand, the speed of reaction. At the time of the outbreak of an epidemic, this balance is just as important, as was confirmed by most speakers during the hearing. Either way, it's a difficult exercise. However, if we go too far in the first two objectives, we risk reducing the rate of reaction. I would also like to comment briefly on the content of the preliminary draft. Articles 3 and 4 are about the announcement of a state of emergency. Several speakers also pointed out that it is not evident for the speed of reaction to allow the government to take measures only after Parliament has confirmed the state of emergency. In that case, there is a risk of waste of time, which we have also noticed in the past year. On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation proclaimed the coronavirus or covid as a pandemic. Two days later, on March 13, 2020, our restaurants closed at midnight. So it can't be done much faster than that. We responded very quickly to the proclamation. Even during that period, however, a lot of lockdown parties are organized. We saw the same thing at the start of the second wave when the non-essential shops were closed. Also then, the weekend before that was used by many people to make a trip to the shops. That's human. However, we must also note that this means that the rate of reaction is even more important. Personally, therefore, it seems more logical for the government, once it announces the state of emergency by royal decree, to be able to take immediate action. Parliament's ratification can of course continue, but it may not have to be in such a short time. Let us be honest. Two to five days, if it is possible to meet, is very short. That was also one of the many critics of the experts. We could perhaps organise this in a different way, which would allow us to organise a more thorough and thorough debate here in Parliament. Let us be honest. At the moment when we find ourselves in such a situation and the WTO, for example, announces that we are in a pandemic, the debate here will only be a push on the yes or no button. However, we are effectively in this emergency situation. We could also take more time to discuss in depth in Parliament, not only on the announcement of the emergency, but also on the measures to be taken to that end.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u42	Mr De Roover, you have already asked for the floor once and so has Mr Donné, so it is the third time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u43	Madam President, I did not put a question to Mrs Depraetere. I made a comment on the way in which Mr Verherstraeten misapplied our agreement. For a good debate, I said that I followed him there, but I did not wish to do so anymore. Mrs Depraetere, what you are saying is particularly interesting, regardless of your introduction in which you said that Parliament is already asking too many questions. I would like you to reconsider that, because that is the essence of this House. As has been said, when the answers are inadequate, questions must be asked again. You have just said that we may have to take more time than those two to five days, because if the World Health Organisation has established that there is a pandemic, you think we should press a green button. So you propose to take more time to consider what measures should be taken. Once we have pressed the green button, Parliament is giving all the powers to the Minister of the Interior even for fundamental civil rights. The debate that you and I find so useful will no longer make sense, because we have pushed the green button, which means that the law will enter into force and that ministerial decisions will be able to eliminate fundamental rights without Parliament being able to intervene. Surely you agree with my reading of the text before us?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u44	That is not my plea; my plea was just to see whether Parliament, rather than those two to five days before we press the button, could take the time to conduct the debate more thoroughly. Instead of just looking at whether or not we are going to join in the ratification of the emergency, we can use this period to have a very thorough debate, if necessary with experts. It may be very interesting, instead of just answering the question of whether it is yes or no, to organise an in-depth debate. This may be in Parliament's favour, but we are also concerned with the fundamental principle that is not under discussion: Parliament must be able to debate the measures on the ground and be able to discuss the long-term. Maybe that's better than pressing a button quickly. However, the government must be able to decide quickly and that is also a firm principle for us, and in this way both can be combined. The question is also whether Parliament is the right place to decide very quickly and efficiently. I think we agree that this is not the case, but Parliament is the right place to hold a debate on the substance. So let us maintain the balance between quick action by the government in crisis time and thorough debate in Parliament in this way too. Before some people here today create a horror story, the pandemic law is not supposed to do more than what is happening today. However, it is intended to give concrete expression to everything, to clarify matters, to establish clearly defined principles for a longer period of time in a legislative text for when all hospitals are on fire. It is clear that text changes are still needed. It was also the intention of the debate that the Chamber should be able to adjust where necessary. This might help a ministerial decision to become a KB. Article 6 must be completely revised; this was already clear in the opinions. It was also discussed the difficulty of incorporating a number of principles into a law to be implemented later. This is a theoretical framework for databases and privacy rules to be applied in the future. Such a general theoretical framework would be difficult to reconcile with GDPR legislation. The GBA has pointed this out and, of course, we must take account of these comments. In any case, it is difficult to make statements about the privacy rules of the future. For example, we do not know today whether we will be able to sit on a terrace on 1 May, although I hope so, nor can we predict what a crisis will look like in ten years' time. Another point of criticism was the definition of physical and sanitary measures in Article 5. It seems to me desirable and useful that the government should use the next period to examine whether this definition can be changed. For example, the word 'physical' could be deleted and only the term'sanitary' could be retained. Colleagues, when the dike breaks, one first stumbles the dam, without thinking about how to prevent it in the future. Let's face it, it's not an obvious exercise or an easy assignment. We each have our vision here and the experts all had their own approach, often very different. So it is not easy at all, but it is intended that we learn from the discussion and, above all, that we also clarify it. Ultimately, it is about looking at how we can do better in the future, how we can ensure that fundamental rights are guaranteed when measures with fundamental rights come into conflict. The law makes a number of improvements in this area anyway. The law builds locks by allowing Parliament to decide on, for example, the extension of the state of emergency. An evaluation mechanism is also in place. The law also guarantees the temporality of measures. In any case, these are important improvements. It's not a story or a story, by the way. In times of crisis, decisions can be taken quickly as well as Parliament's participation. We must, of course, distinguish these roles from each other. The government is putting out the fire, Parliament is making sure that fire safety is improved. Let us also work together on this in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u45	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is, of course, in an extremely heavy political, social, economic and health context that we are debating today the draft Pandemic Bill. The judgment that was delivered this morning is, in substance, only a reflection of what we have been saying with others for weeks or even months. The legal bases for restricting individual freedoms are not solid; they are too fragile. No, we can't twist the neck of the rule of law. No, it cannot be replaced by such measures. No, democratic debate is not a superfluous luxury that the government could do without. No, civil society is not a hindrance to turning around in circles. No, finally, the Constitution is not a vulgar piece of paper that can be stored in a drawer when it suits us. It took us time, along with others, to convince everyone of the need, in the midst of a pandemic, to reflect – with experts and representatives of civil society – on how best to preserve the rule of law and protect our fundamental rights and freedoms in times of pandemic. I note several important considerations of the interventions of our guests or in the written notes that have been transmitted to us. 1. I am thinking first of all of the political and legal need to strengthen Parliament's role in the choice of broad guidelines in the management of the pandemic, but also of the need for this strengthening not to unduly affect the essential agility required to manage a crisis. The adoption by the House of Representatives after a public and democratic debate gives legitimacy to the measures taken. This legitimacy is essential to ensure a minimum level of citizens' adherence to these measures. The democratic legitimacy of measures and the effectiveness of government action are not conflicting principles. These are mutually reinforcing principles. 2. The need to organise an effective monitoring of the legality of infringements of our rights and freedoms, both a priori by the legislative section of the Council of State and by the Data Protection Authority and ex post facto by the litigation section of the Council of State, the courts and courts and the Constitutional Court. Effective control in the context of a pandemic requires, of course, rapid control. 3. The need to comply with the rules on the protection of privacy and, in particular, the rules on the processing of personal data, especially those relating to health data. 4. The need to adopt emergency measures for vulnerable groups with a view to ensuring respect, protection and realization of their rights and freedoms in times of crisis, in particular access to medical care, food aid, housing, education, targeted support for certain audiences such as persons with disabilities, low economic status groups, the elderly, vulnerable families, Roma and Travellers. 5. The need to integrate the temporal dimension into crisis management in order to avoid a lack of perspective leading to despair or revolt against the rules adopted. 6. The need to reflect on sanctions according to the seriousness of the offences. There can be a gradation between administrative fines and judicial sanctions. 7. The need to reconcile the principle of unity of command in the event of crisis management with respect for the rules of competence of the federated entities. The debate, fortunately, has obviously changed the thinking of the other groups. I hope the government will be able to find inspiration to review its text. While the various interventions were from very different points of view and came from experts in very different fields that proposed sometimes contradictory solutions, they had in common to criticise very openly the draft legislation that was not found in the eyes of anyone. Some, even in the majority, go so far as to question the very idea of a pandemic law. Contrary to what some have said here, the constitutionalists, the lawyers have proposed different paths but they have all stressed the unconstitutionality and non-legality of this draft bill, even though the means of achieving this, which have sometimes been proposed, are contradictory. My group shares many of the criticisms that have been made, but it remains convinced that, at the end of the hearings, the status quo is unsustainable, and that it is therefore necessary for the legislator to intervene in order to strengthen the rule of law when confronted with a pandemic. The status quo is untenable, which is further reinforced by this morning's court decision. Indeed, the controversy over the constitutionality of the measures imposed on the population and the divergences in case law create a situation of legal insecurity, all the more so since the measures could not be the subject of a genuine democratic and transparent debate in Parliament. The coexistence of the current legal bases unchanged with a pandemic law makes no sense if the aim is to strengthen the rule of law. This is further supported by the order made this morning. As far as the ministerial decrees adopted on current legal bases can be legitimate at the beginning of the crisis, with a view to stopping or limiting the spread of the virus – even though all the gravity had not been initially perceived – so long as the extension or modification of the measures taken initially to restrict our freedoms is no longer in the same context of urgency and surprise as at the beginning of the crisis and can therefore no longer save a public debate in a democratically elected assembly in accordance with normal procedures. I hear some of the majority say that there has been a great deal of debate on the pandemic in Parliament. It is obvious, but there has never been any involvement of Parliament in decision-making. If, in the draft, the state of pandemic emergency is decided, ratified and confirmed by Parliament, of course. However, measures to restrict individual freedoms are not discussed in Parliament in the preliminary draft. And that is what worries civil society and citizens. That is why even we politicians are constantly confronted with questions that we do not know how to answer. We were not involved in these decisions. Sometimes we are confronted with inconsistencies and we have had an opportunity to discuss them, a posteriori of course, with the Minister of the Interior on Monday. It is essential that we understand the difference between the two themes, since it is indeed the restriction of individual rights and freedoms that are at stake and on which Parliament must be involved. Parliament's role is insufficient to confirm only the extension or declaration of a pandemic. The conditions for his intervention were unsatisfactory: too short a time frame and insufficient information. The delegations to the King and the Minister in the preliminary draft are far too vague. In particular, as far as the processing of personal data is concerned, Article 6 does not meet the legal requirements – on which there is no longer any doubt. In any event, the question arises as to whether this chapter should be included in the preliminary draft. Several experts have made the same observation as we have. The question of effective judicial review of the measures taken is in no way considered, which is particularly problematic in a context where the powers of the Minister, the King and the legislator are rapidly evolving and shifting the jurisdiction of the judge. The project is too weak with regard to the epidemiological management of the pandemic and, in particular, the issue of temporality. Finally, the issue of unity of command in the management of the pandemic and therefore the division of powers between our multiple Parliaments and governments has only been addressed in the preliminary draft. However, this issue is important, in the opinion of many major players in this crisis, such as the former Prime Minister or Commissioner Corona. In the light of the various criticisms and suggestions that have been made by our guests and the various proposals that have been put forward, I will indicate the points on which the government, in my view, needs to review its copy. The coexistence of the current legal bases and those provided by the draft legislation must be eliminated in order to take identical measures. That is the meaning of a bill that we have tabled. For us, the 2007 law can no longer serve as a basis for the adoption of measures lasting more than a few days or even a few weeks. As such, I would like to refer you to this morning's judgment, page 24, where it is clearly explained that "if the urgency of the first times could explain that it is necessary to rely on the law of 15 May 2007, it no longer seems justified to rely on it several months after the emergence (...)". This is confirmed in this order. Secondly, if new legal bases are to be created for the adoption of urgent measures to manage the pandemic, they must be given maximum democratic legitimacy in accordance with the urgent imperative. This, in our view, means a cessation of the effects of measures taken if they are not adopted, modified by the legislator within a fairly short period of time, but nevertheless allowing for a real democratic debate. There is also a need to strengthen checks on the equality of measures taken, both a priori and a posteriori, as I have already had the opportunity to explain. We must also dare to tackle without delay the issue of unity of command in the event of a crisis and emergency in a State with seven to nine parliaments and as many governments, depending on the way we count. Apart from times of crisis, it is complicated, but in times of crisis, it significantly hampers the effectiveness of the action of the public authorities. The temporal dimension of the pandemic crisis needs to be given even more importance. There is also a need to increase transparency by requiring that the scientific data on which the declarations of emergency are based, that the administrative police measures be issued, and that the monthly report to the House be published as soon as possible. Finally, special attention should be given to the most vulnerable groups in the development of measures to address the pandemic. In conclusion, I would like to invite the government to fundamentally review its draft legislation in order to better protect the rule of law, the right to freedom and our health through more democratic debate, better judicial protection and more unity of command. Without that, this draft bill will only be a blow to the water. We were calling with civil society for a project to protect the rule of law, and unfortunately you have offered us a preliminary draft giving full powers to the government. Errare humanum est, perseverare diabolicum.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u46	Dear colleague, at last we are considering this draft pandemic bill, when justice has just imposed on this government a new camouflage by failing to correct your measures of deprivation of liberty. We warned you, though, with others. We called upon the Prime Minister, who first sent you to the front before gradually understanding the scale of the democratic problem. As an opposition, we were referred back to our studies when we demanded respect for the principle of legality enshrined in the Constitution. I still have the memory of your replies, Madam Minister, on the ministerial decrees, stating that until the Belgian State was condemned by the Council of State or the Justice – finally until you were given the wrong one, you would be right. More specious reasoning than ever, which ultimately exempts anyone from any respect for standards until they are prosecuted and punished. Justice was right to call the government to order. The Constitution does not respect itself a posteriori, with a little luck. The Constitution respects itself a priori, rigorously. In fact, everyone agrees today – and you ended up doing it, the status quo had become impossible. The government's current way of doing things is not only contrary to the Constitution, but also devastating in terms of membership and understanding for the population. Because the more complex the situation, the more the trade-offs between health, economics and mental health are and the more democracy is needed. We saw him last week, but what happened in the back? We had an urgent consultation committee scheduled last Wednesday. Let's move on to the week before. Then, a prime minister who makes a statement to the press. Then the Minister of the Interior, who takes orders. That's it, that's it! Parliament has no say, neither the Council of State nor the Data Protection Authority. I am all the more comfortable saying that in my personal capacity, I was rather in favour of the new health measures, which were necessary. But this need does not excuse, either yesterday or today, the absence of parliamentary democracy. In itself, the crisis that we are experiencing naturally legitimizes custodial measures. It must be stressed that these measures must be strictly necessary, limited in time, proportionate to the objective, in particular the protection of public health and the right to life, but these measures must above all be debated and controlled by the parliaments, democratically elected assemblies of our country. It is ultimately the primary philosophy of a pandemic law, which must aim at strengthening democracy and ensuring the principle of legality. What we see with the current version of the government's Pandemic Draft Bill is that it does not strengthen democratic debate or parliamentary control. It is at most a clone of special powers, which already exist and have been used in a previous phase of the pandemic. While my party welcomes the fact that it is finally necessary to have a law that can legitimately be applied in health emergencies, the aim of this new legislation must be to strengthen democratic and parliamentary control. Not to limit it. Thus, by way of illustration, in the government's preliminary draft, if the concept of health emergency is included in the law, one can legitimately question the role of Parliament, which merely endorses the royal decree declaring the health emergency. Furthermore, once Parliament has been confirmed, the health emergency situation is introduced for a renewable period of three months. Why did you set such a long deadline? By comparison, in France, the extension of the state of health emergency beyond one month can only be authorized by law. This is therefore akin to special powers disguised, embellished with a few crumbs of control left in the House. In a second stage, upon confirmation by the Parliament of the decree declaring the emergency health, the Minister of the Interior can – this is set out in Article 4 of your preliminary draft – take the necessary administrative police measures to prevent or limit the consequences of the epidemic emergency. Thus, as soon as Parliament approves the order establishing a health emergency, the government will no longer have to come back to Parliament to adopt police measures. Parliament therefore gives the government a real blank-sing in the management of the epidemic, which we condemn. A sentence delivered by Olivia Venet of the Human Rights League during the hearings in committee sums up the current situation quite well. She told us: "Even in times of crisis, the rules of the rule of law are and remain fundamental." For us – and this is reflected in our alternative bill – it is essential that Parliament fully resume its role of democratic oversight of the government. We propose several elements to achieve this. Firstly, we propose to limit the period of application of the order declaring the health emergency to a maximum of one month, exactly as is the case in France. The extension of the maximum period of one month of the health emergency may only be authorized by law, i.e. by Parliament. In other words, Parliament will decide whether or not the state of emergency should be extended, using scientific data. We also propose that the latter be made public and systematically annexed to each legislative act, whether it be the original emergency order or subsequent laws in the event of an extension. Secondly, with regard to measures restricting freedom, DéFI does not wish to give the government a blank-sing in the management of the crisis. We propose that these measures be adopted for a maximum period of one month, which cannot be extended for the same period as by law. In other words, it is a matter of establishing a kind of constant monitoring of measures. If the measures are no longer necessary or need to be adapted or extended, Parliament will have the prerogatives to do so. Finally, we propose that every week ministers report to the House of Representatives on whether or not to maintain the health emergency, but also on all measures taken since the outbreak of the pandemic. The government's preliminary draft provides again for a period of one month, which is far too long in the context of a health crisis where decisions must be taken without delay. The processing of personal data is, for its part, a very important part of the Government's text since it refers to several pages. In our view, a pandemic bill to increase the transparency and democratic control of the government by Parliament is not the appropriate legal tool to process personal data. This is what emerged from the hearings held in committee. The same reasoning can also be taken with regard to criminal sanctions. Our party is questioning whether criminal sanctions for non-compliance should be provided in advance. This already prejudges that people's acceptance and respect for the rules will not be met, which sends a bad signal. Moreover, and this was recalled at the hearings in committee, the EUR 250 fines for non-compliance do not amount to the same amount for everyone. As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, we will not be able to support this text as it stands, was it a preliminary draft? The government must fundamentally review its copy. This text is autocratic, confiscatory of freedoms and therefore dangerous. I even find it difficult to understand how certain parties of the majority, who would certainly have caused the walls of this Parliament to tremble if they had been presented with such a text when they were in the opposition, can embark on this path. Indeed, it is not in the form of a one-off white-seing, but through a permanent examination that Parliament should assess whether the current measures adequately meet the requirements of legitimacy and proportionality, and whether the choices to be made are acceptable to the public or not. It is for the elected parliament to find the right balance between the preservation of people at risk, mental health, economic survival of cultural, event and horeca worlds. This debate must take place here on an ongoing basis in the Federal Parliament, open book, so that the decisions proposed by the Conciliation Committee can not only be endorsed or rejected, but also amended and enriched. This is a fundamental condition for maintaining and regaining the people's support. To summon the representatives of the people to such difficult decision-making is to trust the people themselves who have elected representatives not only for the colour of a particular idea, but also for the supposed character of the women and men who wear it. There is no need for a pandemic law that becomes a kind of fetish offering the majority the opportunity to properly exempt themselves from past restrictions. There is a need for a legislative tool that allows, over the course of each week and of each concertation committee, to endorse or not measures restricting freedom, as the crisis evolves. This is not, to date, the objective of this text. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as much as the Constitution, it is the unpredictable nature of the virus, possibly future viruses and the crisis that requires Parliament to regain control. For the time being, this text does not achieve this objective. It is imperative that the government correct the shot and trust, for once, the elected representatives of the Nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u47	We have come to the end of the interventions of the various groups. Before the minister can speak, I am asked for a five-minute technical break. In the wake of the Minister's intervention, it is clear that the last word will go to parliamentarians. Members will, of course, have the last word. I propose that each group should have five minutes to reply. Is everyone okay with that? The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u48	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take up the matter of topical and urgent debate. This morning, a French-speaking court of first instance decided that the current legal basis, in particular the Law of 15 May 2007, would not be sufficient for the current corona measures imposed by ministerial decision. I immediately decided to appeal to the Brussels appeal court. I note that the decision does not mean that the current measures should no longer be complied with. Please also note that the Council of State in the General Assembly, which is the highest administrative court, as well as a number of correctional and civil courts, including the courts of appeal of Brussels and Bergen, previously considered that the current legal basis does indeed fulfil as a legal basis for the ministerial decision. I have a great deal of respect for the rulings of courts and courts, for many good reasons, even if the content of those rulings presents us with challenges. Mr De Roover, your respect for the courts and courts seems to be selective. You obviously attach particular importance to that judgment of a court of first instance in interim proceedings, but you have repeatedly misjudged the value of the repeated judgments of the Council of State, even pronounced in a general meeting. Can I at least find that very selective? If, as a result of the favourable judgments of the Council of State, you were to pass out as many figurative flowers as the crisp statements about and references to a blame like today, I might be able to understand you better. Mrs Pas, but also Mr Boukili, we will now appeal this judgment. We will therefore await the outcome of this appeal procedure. Mr De Roover, I do not see very well how this would affect my functioning, but I may not understand the scope of your question in this respect. Mr Boukili, I understand that you prefer to read the judgement of a trial judge whose disposition is right for you, but that you have more difficulty with the other judgments and the judgments that contradict you. It is indeed a special situation, ladies and gentlemen, and major crises often lead to unseen situations, situations that require new answers. In this sense, the COOVID-19 pandemic is no different. It was unseen, for example, that a large number of employees, including Parliament, began to meet virtually. There were no limits to the creativity and perseverance of teachers, school directors, caregivers and shopkeepers; the police had to carry out their assignment in a new context and scientists worked uniquely together to develop a vaccine within the shortest possible time. Never seen is the extraordinary and unique legislative process that we are now going through. Many are talking about it, and I would like to mention what we are doing here, and I am convinced that it will be a new innovation for the applied and democratic renewal. As far as I am well informed, a preliminary draft law has never been on Parliament's agenda at this stage of discussion, even before the Council of State's opinion was sought. Those who claim today that the government is not seeking democratic support for the management of the covid crisis are again contradicted by the facts. In addition to the day-to-day work for the investigation and adjustment of appropriate COOVID-19 measures, the government was very quickly working on a specific legal basis for the possible measures in the event of a pandemic. Moreover, Mr De Roover, the announcements of the work on the draft date much earlier than the submission of the N-VA proposal. Madam President, you will also be able to confirm to me that the government's proposal to discuss the preliminary draft law on administrative police measures in an epidemic situation in Parliament is not already covered by the Rules of Procedure. I would therefore like to thank you for responding to the government's openness by facilitating a discussion in committee and in plenary. Special thanks also to you for your presence and your speech in the introductory remarks in committee. I would also like to thank the members and, in particular, the chairman of the Committee on the Interior. Your enthusiasm for accepting the government's proposal to discuss in detail the draft of what we described as pandemic legislation was, in any case, very valuable. The Commission organised several hours of hearings and discussions and had every opportunity to express its constructive, critical and reticent comments. Finally, my thanks go also to the many scientific experts and advisers who have not hesitated to shed light on this preliminary draft. The large number of organisations which have provided opinions on their own initiative should also be noted. In any case, I take it that the management of this crisis leaves few people indifferent. Of course, we will take these valuable comments and contributions into account in the analysis of the points to be improved. The vulnerability of the government to submit the preliminary draft law to everyone's judgment at this stage is thriving where there is room for nuance. Together with you, however, I note that in some written and spoken reactions the nuance was somewhat lost. Complex challenges like the present have inherently no simple answers. Mr De Roover, it is the opposition's duty to oppose. However, it is my firm belief that we would move forward if you were to stay away from tendentious speeches. There are people calling out and people doing it. Getting out of the context of gibberish, which you well know was used to name a more specific interpretation of a rule, was not about the legal basis itself. References to a non-seaworthy boat, a shallow loose flyer or even a hautaine shoulder pick-up are detrimental to what one might expect from a parliamentary debate with good will. I would like to leave aside the time you have given Belarus for that story. That is why it is also my conviction that the preliminary draft before us today responds better to the challenges of a pandemic than other proposals that are circulating here. The N-VA proposal, for example, still contains a number of loose ends. The scope of the law has not been made clear; there is no reference to consultation with the Länder, as Mr Verherstraeten pointed out; the explanatory statement reads as an opinion document; there is no provision on who advises, which experts are involved and which opinions are sought; and furthermore, the legislative proposal cannot be reconciled with the coordinated laws of the Council of State. The present preliminary draft seeks to reconcile the widespread tension between public health, rights and freedoms, the urgency of decision-making, mental well-being and the economic fabric, which calls for a very delicate balance. I have therefore worked hard to find an answer to the question of how, in the event of an epidemic, with respect for our Constitution and our democracy, we can take measures to ensure maximum protection of public health and safeguard our freedoms. The discussion in today's plenary session is the culmination of that innovative ungoing process, which will analyse the comments, suggestions and reservations heard and read by the government in the further refinement of the draft law. At the same time, the present sitting is also the culmination of what I consider to be a rewarding experiment in the area of democratic renewal. However, it is also clear that what is before us today is not the final draft of the law. The text is a preliminary draft, which will go through the legislative procedure, which was also explicitly cited by Mrs De Block during her speech. I would like to assure everyone who shared his views that these views have been well heard and that we will seriously consider these reflections in the further legislative work, even if you do not find them literally in the final text. In any case, we shall continue to work on the report of the discussions. I would like to express my thanks to the reporter. The second drafting phase of the bill has now begun. The opinion of the Council of State expected in mid-April will also play an important role. Indeed, the Council of State will undoubtedly provide particular clarity on a number of important current debates on the preliminary draft, for example on the direct delegation to a proposed minister and on the relationship between the preliminary draft and the existing legal framework. With the opinion of the Council of State and the input of this Parliament and all the actors involved, we will get back to work and present you with an amended draft. We will process the content of the opinions as soon as possible. In any case, I shall be available to Parliament in order to continue the usual parliamentary work as soon as possible afterwards. Mr De Roover, if I were to make a statement before knowing the opinion of the Council of State, you would probably qualify me as misplaced or ignorant. We have submitted a preliminary draft in all vulnerability. We can continue the parliamentary debate later. However, it is appropriate to know and await an institution such as the Council of State. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, guaranteeing legal certainty by creating a specific legal basis, increasing parliamentary involvement and control, as well as the best possible organisation of transparency, determined our starting points in drawing up this preliminary draft. Parliamentary control can be even more essential in crisis situations. And this one is insured in different ways. Mr De Smet, Parliament has control on the basis of this draft law. Mrs Matz, there is a clear role for Parliament. It is therefore wrong to say that Parliament cannot play any role on the basis of this law. Mr Donné, you surprise me a little. Parliament will not shut itself down if this preliminary draft law can continue. After all, we guarantee Parliament's involvement, more than this is the case today. First of all, we are talking about the debate on the law itself. We will discuss in the next few weeks what measures can be announced in the event of a pandemic. There is a list in this preliminary draft law. That list can be reviewed further. We can clarify these measures in the operative part and in the recitals, but it is on the basis of that list that Parliament can debate what measures could be taken in the event of a pandemic. This is a first important involvement of Parliament, which was not there earlier, for example on the basis of the Civil Security Act. Parliament will be expressly involved in the ratification of the Royal Decree declaring the emergency within two and up to five days. Moreover, the ministerial decision will be delivered to the President of the Chamber for publication in the Belgian Official Journal and there will also be a debate on this ministerial decision in Parliament. In addition, it is expressly stated that Parliament has the possibility of lifting the ministerial decision. That is, by the way, a possibility that already exists today. To indicate that Parliament has that possibility will ensure additional involvement. We are also trying to ensure maximum transparency by communicating all scientific data and opinions to Parliament, so that this information is fully available. And indeed, after this covid crisis, an assessment can be made of the law to see where it may need to be adjusted and where certain measures can be adapted. The indignation about Parliament's involvement and its lack is particularly choosy. The parliamentary groups in this hemisphere seem to have no difficulty in making decisions in other parliaments of the federated entities without any administrative or legal act. The decision to which you referred, Mr De Roover, also refers to 'la suspension de l'obligation scolaire'. That's what it's about. The judge in Brussels is obviously offended by that. Well, I have noticed that measures are being taken in Flanders, for example on distance learning in secondary education, for which there is no legal basis and for which no parliamentary debate has taken place. So I have to say that there is a selective indignation about this. Many facets of society, I dare even say: all facets of society are covered in the search for answers for the management of a crisis like today's. Of course, I will not go into all the comments exhaustively here, but I would like to repeat the broad lines of the statements and opinions from the hearings and the debate in committee earlier this week and today in plenary. In the preliminary draft, we include measures of administrative police and control over their compliance. It is therefore indeed a special additional specific law of administrative police, which may also fall back on the existing legal framework. Mr Aouasti, this is not the purpose of changing the existing rules, but this law is framed in the rules that we already know today. With regard to the comments on the scope and the demand for extension to other risk situations or other aspects of crisis management, I can tell you that they were not the design of this preliminary draft. In the current draft, we are indeed focusing on the measures taken by the administrative police and on the monitoring of compliance. I appreciate the fact that several members of the committee recognise the tension between the outbreak of an epidemic or a pandemic and the outbreak of an emergency, on the one hand, and the formal process of drawing up and ratifying a royal decision establishing that epidemic or pandemic, on the other hand, but also formulate proposals on this issue. Mrs Gilson, we will analyse the deadlines for the confirmation of the royal decree for a maximum of two to five days. In any case, these deadlines must allow for an efficient system during a pandemic or epidemic. We also discussed in committee the planned ratification of the Royal Decree, which denounces the epidemic, which, of course, called into question the resulting powers of the Constitutional Court on several occasions. It was striking that in that context they thought very much out of the box. For example, it was suggested that the Constitutional Court Act or the coordinated laws on the Council of State should be amended. However, an amendment to the Constitutional Court law does not seem possible within this legislature, since the constitutional article in question was not declared subject to revision. In any case, I share your concern, Mr Van Hecke, about the need to provide adequate legal protection, the need for access to justice and the careful handling of it. In this case, the Council of State seems to be the natural judge, but we will, of course, consider, also on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State, whether we should consider any other considerations. A number of concerns and suggestions were expressed regarding the announcement of the epidemic emergency and in particular its timing, duration and end. Like Mr. As De Smet said, we will analyse the period of validity of the measures, taking into account the stability of the measures we are looking for. I also heard some concerns about the end of the crisis and how it is handled. These concerns about the outcome of the crisis certainly deserve our attention. As to whether the measures should be taken by royal or ministerial decree, I reply that this is a ministerial decree discussed in the Council of Ministers, which is very similar to a royal decree discussed in the same Council. Mr Boukili, you deny that, but there is no longer a decision confirming the legal basis, which means that we can work with a ministerial order. I can only note that a delegation to ministers is also provided for in the Civil Security Act, by which I consider it appropriate, as far as the pandemic law is concerned, to seek some continuity in the regulatory framework. Moreover, it cannot be denied that ministerial decrees can be signed more quickly than royal decrees. As Mr Verherstraeten and Mrs Depraetere have said, it is clear that it was also clear last week that rapid action in the event of a crisis was crucial. This applies both to measures that tighten up and to measures that relax. As I have already said, we propose to await the opinion of the Council of State on this matter. The committee then also expressed some reservations about the content of the measures and their possible ratification. Its ratification, as some speakers have said today, could lead to a legal tangle of both regulatory and legal texts, as well as potentially reduced legal protection in the current state of law, as there is no UDN procedure available for the Constitutional Court today. The laws of the Constitutional Court should be reviewed to this end, and the question is whether this is desirable at this stage of the crisis. Another element discussed concerns the extent to which the measures can be defined and defined more clearly in the operative part. In this context, Mrs Depraetere spoke about the last category of physical and sanitary measures. We will certainly take these comments with us and see to what extent all the essential elements of the measures we could take in the event of a pandemic can be well defined. Furthermore, this is a question other than the one on the Constitutional Court, which raises the question of whether we can amend the laws of the Council of State in the sense that the conditions for a procedure in the event of an extremely urgent need (UDN) at the Council of State can be adapted for proceedings against the decision to be taken in the event of a pandemic. Mrs Hugon, it is true that the impact of measures on vulnerable groups must be recognised. We will therefore reconsider the impact of these on certain groups. Mrs Gilson, we have already provided for transparency regarding the measures we could take. But we will see what can be added and improved in relation to the transparency of expert opinions and other information. Another question was about the involvement of local authorities, particularly in the context of an epidemic. In any case, the preliminary draft law has already addressed the role of local authorities. With regard to measures at the local level, it will be examined whether further clarifications can be made and, in particular, what measures can be taken by local authorities and with whom they should consult in this case. By the way, that is already the case today. We ask the mayors and governors to notify these measures as far as possible and with a view to harmonisation. I have already indicated that there is transparency about the opinions given. Of course, we'll look into that further. Many speakers spoke about enforcement. As far as I am concerned, enforcement is the key element of management measures. Mr Boukili, you are wrong when you say that the starting point is sanctions and the maintenance of law and order. Indeed, that is the purpose of the measures. We must first discuss the measures and then we can also discuss the maintenance of law and order and sanctions. We are not leaving sanctions. We can also take up the debate on this issue further. There are a number of interesting questions, for example whether we should distinguish between minors and adults. We certainly need to look at this aspect, including in the context of administrative sanctions. Concerns were also expressed about the considerable consequences of criminal sanctions, on the one hand for administrative sanctions and on the other for lighter penalties. In this regard, consideration will be given to whether an amendment to the Act on communal administrative sanctions would be possible, how they could be modified and whether specific provisions could be made for juvenile offenders. I am almost at the end of my speech, but an important chapter, which should not be left out here, is the protection of personal data. Much has already been said about this, both here in the hemisphere and in the media. It goes without saying that we will continue to examine the advice of the GBA with, as it is a very technical matter, GDPR experts from the various departments, not only the FPS Home Affairs, but also other FPS, in order to be able to respond to the concerns and comments in the further refinement of the data processing provisions. In any case, it was the practice to create a framework for the adoption of certain specific measures in this preliminary draft. Moreover, this methodology has already been used in many other proposals: a framework is foreseen and specific measures are subsequently included in an RB. Advice is then sought on that KB. That must also be confirmed in this case. It is therefore clear that the last word on personal data protection has not yet been said under the pandemic law. I can conclude that, in spite of a strong debate and some banks, some tendentious and unsophisticated criticism, the approach we have followed in presenting this preliminary draft law can be regarded as a success. The concerns, concerns and suggestions that can be taken into account at such an early stage mean that we can draw up a draft law as well as we can, and that is an asset, because it will contribute to the understanding and management of the crisis. Today we are completing this step, in order to enter into consultation with Parliament with a preliminary draft law. As soon as the opinion of the Council of State is available, we will analyse it thoroughly and continue to work on a number of aspects, as discussed here, in order to refine the draft law. For those who doubt it, I would like to stress that, in the meantime, we are, of course, already working on the basis of experts' opinions and MEPs' comments on improving the draft law. We are convinced of the need to strike a balance between public health, rights and freedoms, mental well-being and also economic fabric in tackling a major epidemic crisis, such as the crisis we are experiencing today. I believe that an additional specific law of special administrative police which also respects the urgency of decision-making can contribute to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u50	Madam Minister, you have again given an overview of what has been said here. You've actually done the reporters' work again. Repetition can make sense, there's nothing against it. You have chosen not to throw yourself into the debate, arguing that you are waiting for the opinion of the Council of State. There's something to be said for that. However, it does not mean that this round has been pointless. You are right because Parliament has been able to use a formula which I very much like. However, this did not happen until we, for as long as this government has been in existence for six months, have been silenced in the decision-making process on the corona measures. As early as October 2020, when you were a fresh minister, the Brussels appeal court noted that the basis with which you continued to work was not sufficient. As it turned out this morning, you played with fire. We will see which judgments will come forward, but they do not alter the fact that even judges seem to arrive at different judgments. What is the citizen supposed to do with that? Your constant references to the Council of State also deserve some nuance. The Council of State has said that it does not pre-empt judgments of judges. You cannot therefore hide behind those judgments in this case. We have had good input from various experts here, but also from many groups, even from the majority, with very critical reservations. I hope that this criticism will not strengthen your fear of Parliament, but that this input will in future encourage you to be more open than has been the case so far. Well, then we've all had a chance of getting something out of it after all. However, that is still the packaging. This fantastic open way of working comes after months of no real parliamentary input into decision-making. We were, of course, allowed to ask questions, but we were not allowed to do so. However, we were not included in the decision-making process. It would be very bad if this novum, which is now being given to Parliament, were to be the introduction to the adoption of a law which would allow us to press a green button once after a KB has been issued, while pressing that button would mean that Parliament would be eliminated from managing the crisis and taking fundamental measures from that point on. That is what this is about, and of course you have not touched that element here. You will not be able to deny that, after the adoption of this law, you or any successor of yours will be able to introduce a night clock, for example, after pressing that green button, without any parliamentary debate. That is the essential criticism that we are putting forward here. Many useful and useful suggestions have been made in this respect, but this is the fundamental work I expect from you, namely that you fundamentally avoid that basic rights around Parliament can be affected by MB, but not by KB, for a long period of time. That's what it says. That is what is on the table here today, and that is the key point where your homework needs to be redone, apart from other interesting and important technical aspects. Mr Verherstraeten said that we sometimes focus a little too much on you. First of all, it is your signature underneath, but more importantly, when I asked for your Prime Minister to accompany you here today, the rest of the coalition abandoned you. Mr Verherstraeten, if you had just helped me, the Prime Minister would have been here and we should not have just addressed the Minister of the Interior. We have no choice but to do so, because it is the only one who seems to be represented here by the government. You have criticised your CD&V colleagues in the Flemish government. You must resolve that in your own party and check whether there is serious action. I can tell you that, should this House have done as much legislative work on corona as it has done on decree-making work in Flanders, we would have lived in a very different reality here. You know your own ministerial decision of October, where in Chapter 7 you yourself in the education section, with a ministerial decision, have federally determined the powers of the Ministers of Education. It's a little bizarre that you're suddenly acting like you had nothing to do with that. I'm rounding up. Colleagues, I thank you all for proving that Parliament is not only creating a moment of openness but, above all, hopefully, can also avoid bad legislation being implemented. Parliament has shown that it can weigh on decision-making, and I hope that you will not forget the freedom you have sometimes taken in committee when the final draft comes down here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u51	Madam Secretary, thank you very much for the answers. I would like to thank you for your open attitude and your clear willingness to adapt the present text, not only on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State that is coming, but also on the basis of the hearings, the many opinions and the debate that has taken place here. I have heard a different answer from Mr De Roover, who drew some strange conclusions. This also shows that the debate really makes sense, which you denied at the beginning, Mr De Roover, but at the end it did. The debate does indeed make sense, because it will allow us to weigh up together and give direction to the final text. That is the importance of this debate. After all, what is the alternative? Is that your text, Mr De Roover? I've read it, too. That text is not just about what to do in a pandemic, it is much wider. Almost all types of crises could fall within its scope and could therefore have a much greater impact, with breaches of fundamental rights. This preliminary draft is focused on a pandemic. In all other crisis situations, the new law will not apply. Mr Verherstraeten also pointed out that you argued four and a half years ago in the attacks for the creation of a legal basis for a state of emergency in which Parliament's role is nil. What happened? I am charmed by your discovery of the importance of Parliament. If there is a need to discuss fundamental rights here, I will remember a proverb spontaneously: when the fox preaches passion, peasant beware of your geese.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u52	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for what you said and for the openness you have shown. Thank you for involving Parliament in your government. I think it's important. We can have all the debates we want. You can comment on court decisions. We can comment on others. We can do the story again. It can be said when a court decision pleased or displeased in this Parliament, when judges were treated as "political" because they disagreed with court decisions, when they were not considered political, when they were wrong and when they were right. This debate and inventory can take place at length. Everyone has to do his own examination of conscience. I'm not here today to discuss a court decision. I am here to discuss a draft bill, something that does not yet exist. As I said, we are in a somewhat special procedure because we are now acting as an advisory body. We are discussing a draft bill that is before us, on which we need to work and on which the minister – she has just said – has still committed herself to working on the more than 600 pages contained in the report that my colleague has excellently summarized or the opinions that are being expressed and that will still be expressed this evening, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow in the press. I have no doubt that many other expressions will still be born in the coming days and weeks, with the fateful countdown of the 30 days mentioned in this famous judgment in interim proceedings of the court of first instance. I'm not going to comment on a judgment. We had discussed a draft bill. I gave you my opinion. I have communicated to you my proposals which I consider constructive. You have reached out for a continuous dialogue with Parliament, even after discussion within the government and adoption of the text at second reading within the government. I take this outstretched hand and I give you an appointment on these benches, Madam Minister, for a constructive discussion, to finally have what we all call our vows, namely a law that blocks things, protects our citizens, protects their health and their fundamental rights. I think we share that objective. So I won't be much longer. À bientôt!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u53	Madam Minister, for the record, I appreciate that the debate is being held here today and that you have come here with a preliminary draft so that at least we can have the debate. At least you have come up with a preliminary draft pandemic law. In your government, not everyone was convinced of that need. At the beginning of my speech, I said that I expected the same answer as in the committee, that you would study and take matters with you pending the opinion of the Council of State. I note that you are indeed taking those reflections and reflections with you. I have heard you repeat a number of them in committee, such as the penalty modulation for minors, and I therefore hope that this will be included in the final draft, so that the exercise will be useful today. A new element, of course, was your response to the judgment we received today from the Brussels court. You say you're appealing, but of course that's not suspensive. You have a period of 30 days within which you must provide a legal basis. I do not know what the actual effect will be on the time planning of the pandemic law. Is it your intention to submit the final text in Parliament for discussion and approval within 30 days? I was sorry to see you stick to the favorable judgments of the Council of State. You will continue to refer to this, even though you know that it was still justified at the outset that the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 was applied, but today the judge clearly considers that that statement of reasons is due to expire after one year. All constitutional specialists have predicted that, too. The fact that you are hiding behind the favorable judgments of the Council of State and are still criticizing the so-called tendentious criticism of the opposition is something I find misplaced, especially when I hear the very negative opinions and yet fundamental criticism of the pandemic law and read over the last few weeks. I would have liked to have heard from you today that the restriction of freedoms cannot indeed be achieved by ministerial decision, as the preliminary draft before us confirms, but I hope that this will be amended in the final version, which I am waiting for. Instead of talking mainly about the content of the pandemic law, some of my colleagues spoke about their new hobby, the counting of questions and interplays that were discussed in Parliament. Of course, Mr Depraetere, we are asking questions. Mr Verherstraeten, of course we are again asking some questions in the hope of getting at least one answer in the next attempt. For example, I have asked several times about the figures on the basis of which far-reaching measures were taken. Explain to contact professionals and shopkeepers of non-essential shops that such measures are decided without the figures. We have also asked several questions about the flawed legal basis of the measures. They were then dismissed as irrelevant. Mr Verherstraeten, all the constitutional specialists and also the Brussels Court of First Instance think differently. Mrs Depraetere, I am convinced that not only the legal basis is needed, but that a discussion of a proposal of measures here in Parliament, before the decisions are taken, will be useful in removing the uncertainties and miscommunications that we have had to see so often in the past year. Hopefully such a discussion can also stop some crazy measures, such as sitting at the window on the train to the sea, which does not have to be taken when driving back home or to another destination. Apparently, the virus only likes to go to sea. Mrs Depraetere, I have heard your metaphor a few times that it is necessary to put out when it burns and that the fire truck has to leave immediately and not wait five or seven days. I agree with that. However, if you want to put out a fire efficiently, make sure that there are drivers who can drive. You must ensure that they have a GPS at their disposal so that they can at least find the nearest fire. You must ensure that they have equipment at their disposal, that they are insured and that they have paid the traffic tax. If they don't, they're gonna go down and they're gonna get chunks. Let Parliament monitor these matters. Let Parliament determine the nearest appropriate aid. Let Parliament do that. Let Parliament determine efficiency and ensure that extinguishing is efficient before everyone is suffocated in the smoke of legal uncertainty. Parliament must also be involved in the decision-making process after the emergency has been approved. Let that be the most important message to take to the final version.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u54	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you very much for your openness. I have the impression that you have considered our arguments. That's a very good sign. Contrary to what some are trying to make believe, I think you really want to listen to Parliament and work with Parliament. Some would no doubt like to take the role of the executive here, to go so far as to decide the measures themselves. This can be a temptation. But honestly, it's the role of the executive. And it is Parliament's role to control. Already in your preliminary draft, you have foreseen that at the end of the pandemic periods there would be an evaluation by a Covid committee, and that Parliament would then decide whether to repeal or supplement the legislation. This shows that this is a partnership between Parliament and the government that you have envisaged. We started this partnership with your presentation, with the hearings. We're after him. So we are with you to continue this work and to reach a law that will guarantee freedoms and allow us to deal with this terrible crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u55	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. I have the impression that you continue to defend your project while it is indefensible. I do not know whether we participated in the same hearings, whether we heard the same experts, the same constitutionalists. You continue to defend this text. You continue to move forward, without questioning the way this crisis has been managed, as you want to sustain this management in this bill. That, Madam Minister, is unacceptable! This law, whether you want it or not, gives you full powers. This means that the measures will be taken by ministerial decree, and that the parliamentary debate will come later. There is no involvement of Parliament in decision-making. There is no democratic debate on measures to assess their effectiveness, legitimacy and proportionality. All of this must be done later. Mr Verherstraeten, this already exists today. We can already question ministerial orders today. The fact that this is written in the law does not bring democratic novelty. Rather, it is to exclude Parliament from a democratic debate. Yeah, he can react later. But that is already the case at the moment. Madam Minister, this debate to restrict private freedoms must be conducted here in this Parliament, upstream, and not later. These measures must be decided following a democratic debate, involving civil society and the public in this decision-making to ensure accession. But you continue with the same logic of doing what you've done for the past year, as if it were a success. You want to hide the failure of managing the pandemic crisis behind this piece of legislation to legitimize a policy that does not work. Do not rely on the PTB to support you in this process! We reject this pandemic law. It is a law that violates our freedoms and is ineffective in the face of the pandemic, since it takes over the policy that has not yet worked. It would be time to ask each other again and say that maybe we've screwed up and we have to do something else!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u56	Madam President, I would like to clarify a moment after Mrs Pas' reply. I have nothing against the many questions that are being asked. On the contrary, I have said a lot about the covid crisis myself. I think this is also very useful for Parliament. I was more concerned with the quality of the questions that are sometimes asked. You say you expect a comprehensive answer. So do I, but if 130 questions are brought together in one actua debate, it is logical that the Minister should touch many different aspects in his reply. That's okay, but I think everyone should look into their own minds and ask themselves whether a question is being submitted for the sake of their own statistics or because they really want the Minister's answer. If you look at the questions, you will find that some questions are submitted in the same form over and over again. Then you will be able to draw the same conclusion. You must also know what you want. I am also in favour of comprehensive answers, but I see Mr De Roover taking a picture of the clock every week when the Minister for Health or the Prime Minister is talking about speaking time. One has to know what one wants. Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, but also for the willingness to hold a debate here today. I think we can all conclude that this was useful. I would also like to thank you for your openness to amend the preliminary draft and to take account of the comments made today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u57	Madam Minister, I thank you for taking the time to answer more fully than in committee about the various avenues put on the table either by experts or by different political groups. If I can often agree with his legal reasoning, I cannot agree with Mr Aouasti when he says that a judgment is another debate. I do not think this is another debate, I think it is an important blow to the fact that there are a number of questions to be asked about the legality of the measures. You announced that you were making a call. I remind you that the appeal is not suspensive – it is a reform of Minister Geens of 2015. I remind you of this point so as not to be in a legal vacuum at any given time. You also recalled that the Council of State had said something other than what the order says today. Obviously, but it also demonstrates the form of blurry that exists around measures and the need for a strong law to clarify matters and also strengthen the role of Parliament. I'm not going to get out of it. Madam Minister, I have heard your explanations. I do not lead an opposition by attacking everything at all winds, I simply wish that things are done properly. I know you're a lawyer, too. I do not think that health measures and respect for individual freedoms should always be opposed. Several experts explained that health measures were not irreconcilable with respect for individual freedoms. Nor is it impossible for Parliament to work quickly to ensure that there is a debate ahead of decisions to restrict freedoms. I would like to point out that the people's acceptance of these measures is at stake, as well as their legitimacy. This is very important so that they can be accepted, and so that we can explain them. We are not obliged to go through a constitutional review to implement an accelerated procedure before the Constitutional Court. It was sufficient to amend the special law on the Constitutional Court, for example by providing for a procedure of extreme urgency in order to have an effective remedy. It's not insurmountable. We'll keep an eye on what you're going to present. You said you wanted to work in partnership with Parliament. If that is the case, we would like the opinion of the Council of State to be forwarded to us as soon as you receive it. That is the logical continuation of our debate: when the government receives the advice of the Council of State, it will be forwarded to Parliament before you have tabled the amended bill. I hope that it will be fundamentally so on certain points on which we will be extremely attentive. We will always be on the side of building a solution, but not at the cost of the sacrifice of individual freedoms and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-plenair-ip095x.u58	I thank each group for the respectful manner in which the debate took place today for the first time in an unprecedented session devoted exclusively to the consideration of a draft bill. All reports will be forwarded to the government for consideration in the final draft. Thank you and wish you all a good evening. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, April 1, 2021 at 10.30 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 1 April 2021 at 10.30 a.m.
