ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u1	Minister, the study of Transport & Mobility Leuven (TML) has finally been published. It is a long-awaited study on the future of diesel traction and the possible alternatives to the last unelectricized railway lines in our country, which are, by the way, almost all located in East Flanders. The researchers conclude that it is strongly recommended to step away from diesel trains in the long term. They show in the study that not only electrification of the railway lines as an alternative to diesel traction should be focussed. If electrification is decided, the researchers recommend that priority be given to the lines between Eeklo, Ghent and Ronse. In an initial response, you instructed SNCB and Infrabel to further develop the results of the study. Minister, do you confirm that you also support the objective of abandoning diesel traction? Which railway lines will you give priority to? In your policy statement you indicated that electric traction remains the preferred solution. Do you stick to that view after the publication of the study or do you see possible alternatives? You indicated that you wanted additional research from the two railway companies. What further research do you think should be carried out before we can take implementing measures? Are you also taking steps to roll out alternative technologies on the ground in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u2	Mr. Chairman, Minister, reference was made to the Transport & Mobility Leuven study, published last week, which deals with possible solutions for non-electrified railway lines on which polluting diesel vehicles operate. This study was commissioned as part of a reflection on being able to get rid of these diesel trains, given the environmental and societal challenges facing our country. Several scenarios have been studied on different sections and according to different timetables to see the advantages and disadvantages of each of the scenarios and of each of the technologies studied, namely network electrification, battery system or hydrogen system. In summary, the study highlights the value of electrification for environmental reasons, but also the role that battery trains could play for an intermediate period before full grid electrification. On the other hand, the authors seem to consider, in the short term, investment in hydrogen trains to be more risky for a number of technical reasons, in particular related to the characteristics of fuel cell technology. Minister, what lessons do you learn from the study of the Mobility FPS? What follow-up will be provided? Are studies being considered on the development of battery charging systems? Can a priority investment scenario already be identified? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u3	Mrs Buyst will not be here this afternoon. Are there any other Members who would like to speak in the context of the topical and urgent debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I have read with great attention the study on alternatives to diesel trains. It was very interesting and it is clear that we need to move quickly to the dedieselization of SNCB. Let me quote from the report: "Our final conclusion is that electrification of the remaining diesel lines is potentially beneficial to society. We therefore strongly recommend that in the long term diesel trains should be completely decommissioned, even if these diesel trains meet higher standards than the present MW41. However, there is little difference in benefits between the scenario where it is only implemented in 2035 or 2025. The choice lies mainly with the policy maker and to what extent the local negative impact of diesel trains will be on the agenda. If electrification is decided, we recommend prioritizing the lines Eeklo-Gent-Ronse." Last night, at the Ronse City Council, a motion was unanimously approved that asked not only for the windows to be opened, but also for the electrification of the Ronse-Eeklo line. The cost of electrification of the L58 Gent-Eeklo was estimated at 17 million euros in 2015 and the cost of the L86 Ronse-De Pinte route was 22.5 million euros, representing 39.5 million euros. In other words, it is advantageous to start electrifying the remaining diesel lines today. That's the conclusion of the study. I have the following questions. Will you answer the question of Ronse's local government to electrify the line? Will you submit a project to Europe to use part of the EUR 6 billion recovery fund for electrification of train line 86 or will SNCB and Infrabel implement it with their own resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you will no doubt know, our group has been dealing for some time with the problems of diesel trains, which seem to be out of date. It is also geographically striking that all the lines in question are located in East Flanders. There is line 82 Aalst-Brussels and there are the lines Gent-Eeklo, Ronse-Oudenaarde-Gent and Ghent-Zottegem-Geraardsbergen. Most of them cross the green Flemish Ardennes. There are therefore several reasons for taking a serious look at this. Electrification is one aspect that was highlighted in the Flemish railway strategy of 2013. However, Minister, during the discussion of your policy paper and your statement, we also put forward the path of hydrogen. We have also written a resolution on it. There are examples of this in our neighbouring countries and in regions of our neighbouring countries, such as Lower Saxony and Friesland. Those projects have already started there and are running pretty well in all areas. You were still somewhat sceptical when we discussed the policy statement in November 2020. Maybe the messenger was more important than the message at the time. The study that has now come to light may, after all, cause some movement, both in other colleagues and in yourself. Mr Minister, my question is as follows. How do you see things in concrete terms? Will you stick to the diesel trains, although that's probably not an option? Is electrification or hydrogen an option, in any form? If so, what lines are they an option for? After all, Ghent is the point of reference for three of the four lines. Let Ghent, of all people, be the city in Flanders, I miss Mr Vandenbroucke, who would like to support me in this respect, who already has the knowledge of hydrogen and is working on various domains. So we can work together very constructively together here. Thank you, Minister, for the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from my point of view it goes without saying that sustainability is also included in my agenda. In this sense, I have also included the subject in my policy paper and have asked the companies within my policy domain "NMBS" and "Infrabel" to pay due attention to this. I am therefore pleased to note that Infrabel gives up sustainable business as one of the priorities. The infrastructure manager argues that innovation is a fundamental lever for achieving its ambition in this area and thus making rail transport even more sustainable. Infrabel has already developed a number of initiatives in the past that brought together innovation and sustainability, such as the use of track pads to reduce noise or the use of renewable energy sources such as solar and wind energy. This will continue to be the case in the context of the new environmental policy plan and the new climate strategy currently being finalised by the infrastructure manager. As regards Mrs Verhaert's question on hydrogen trains, I am indeed aware of the will in the Rail Ghent Terneuzen project to investigate this slope, possibly linked to the European Year of Rail. My cabinet will cooperate with this project wherever possible, taking into account all possible alternatives to polluting diesel trains, such as electrification, battery trains or hydrogen trains. In a number of countries tests have indeed already been carried out on a so-called hydrogen train. The results of the tests are positive, but before the use of such a train is possible, there are still a number of points to be resolved, such as the type of type approval and the specific tank infrastructure required. Moreover, the train itself may have clean emissions, but the production of the hydrogen used does not necessarily take place in an ecological way. All these aspects need to be looked at further before the hydrogen train can really run on the Belgian tracks. The FPS Mobility and Transport also published a study on the different options to replace diesel traction last Friday. That study shows that hydrogen is not the appropriate solution at the moment. The technology will undoubtedly continue to evolve and may then offer us new opportunities. We always want to be open to innovative solutions. In addition, the study showed that it is strongly recommended to step away from diesel trains in the long term, even if they meet higher standards than the current fleet. That is, of course, a conclusion which I can fully endorse. The study also shows that the full electrification of the remaining diesel lines in Belgium is potentially of great social benefit. For certain lines, battery trains can offer an interesting alternative, especially in the case of a section of a route which has been further electrified. I will therefore instruct SNCB and Infrabel to further develop the results of the study. With regard to your questions about the lines that would be given priority and the related budgets, it is still too early to answer them. This will depend not only on the means available but also on the greatest gains to be made in terms of the investments made. To be continued!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u7	I note, Minister, that you are also aiming to abolish the diesel traction, but at this stage you do not want to say whether you are for or against hydrogen or battery trains. Just in view of that final conclusion, we were waiting for the study of Transport & Mobility Leuven. I note that you have not yet clarified the alternative tractions that can be used. I think that is a little disappointing, but of course it makes sense that you want to go further with the two railway companies. We must ensure that we do not end up in a story in which we study after study. It is important that sooner or later we take a decision on the replacement of diesel traction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answers. This study, as your answer, points out that the priority, the objective, is first of all to have cleaner transport and cleaner technologies for rail. That is the meaning of the priorities. I therefore welcome the fact that this study, which at this stage is merely a study by a study office, is subject to comments and follow-up by the railway undertakings, as you asked them to do. Indeed, it is a matter to follow. But the study guidelines and your response clearly indicate the priority for cleaner transport. It seems to me that this is the direction to be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u9	Mr Minister, I also think it is a very interesting study, but I would like to make a comment: it is mainly about phasing out diesel for passenger trains, whereas diesel for freight trains is only slightly cited in the study. There we are, of course, still on another path. I would like to make this point: when we talk about dedieselising our train, we are primarily talking about passenger trains and not about freight trains. However, let us hope that technology will continue to develop in this area and that things like hydrogen will also become applicable and feasible for freight trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u10	Mrs Verhaert is not here at the moment, Mrs Jadin is not here either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u11	Mr President, Minister, last week we had a short but meaningful winter break, although we can hardly imagine it today. However, there was a lot of snow, especially in the north of the country, and the freezing temperatures were very low. Unlike in the Netherlands, where the conditions were even more extreme, the train traffic in our country has never been completely stationary, but it has experienced the necessary inconvenience. The winter plan for the tracks of Infrabel and SNCB has been a subject of discussion in our Mobility Committee in recent years. In any case, since we are considering the winter plan every year, I think it would be good to evaluate that even now, after the last winter shot. Hence the question before us, together with the questions put by my fellow Members. Many passengers have suffered the necessary nuisances of abolished trains and trains with considerable delays, of which I can speak with myself. Freight transport has also experienced a lot of problems. In this context, there were some notable complaints about frozen switches, although they were equipped with heating facilities. On site it is reported that the heating was not switched on or much too late. It is somewhat strange that this technology is then not being used in good time or in good time, given the heavy investments made to put that technology on hold so that the switches can be warmed up. Also, snow crews would have been operationalized too late and caused icicles delays in tunnels. So there are some questions. Minister, the winter shot was announced well in advance. How and when was the Infrabel and SNCB winter plan activated? What measures have already been taken in advance, and therefore preventively, in order to minimise the nuisance? What efforts were made during the winter shot itself to minimise the nuisance to train traffic? What was the impact of the winter break on rail traffic for passengers, for example on abolished trains and heavy delays? What was the impact of the winter shot on freight transport? How many delays has this led, among other things? What lessons are being drawn for the future? After all, we must always try to do better on another occasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u12	Mr President, we therefore have a topical debate on winter conditions, and since we are still in winter, I would like to thank the Minister for allowing this debate to take place quickly and on the news. This has not always been the case in the past. As my colleague has mentioned, our country has experienced a wave of cold. On this occasion, it was found that smooth traffic could be maintained on the Belgian rail thanks to the teams of the Infrabel and the SNCB. I believe that we must also be able to welcome the work that has been done in order for this to be possible. However, as is the case every year, there have been a number of problematic situations of different kinds. My question specifically concerns the removal and clearance of the docks from the station entrances that are part of the conditions of the SNCB winter plan. It also provides for staff, but also for stocks of salt or sand if necessary. However, some evidence was gathered that wharfs had not been released, which in some cases resulted in falls. This occurred in particular in the area of Spa where a commuter was hospitalized after sliding and colliding on the dock, an incident which has not failed to cause debate. Minister, do you have a return to the field interventions taken during the last cold wave? What is the percentage of wharves and stations that may have been cleared by SNCB? Is staff sufficient to conduct these operations? Are some stations served less well than others? Will problematic situations, such as the one in Pepinster, be the subject of a specific analysis with a view to drawing the necessary lessons for the years to come?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u13	Mr President, you spoke in your introduction about the winter prick and the problems with SNCB. I've been talking about Infrabel before, but I suspect it's the same thing. Mr. Secretary, the winter shot didn't come out of the sky. When was Infrabel's winter plan actually activated? Just as Mrs Vindevoghel sometimes receives phones, on Sunday I also received a number of telephones from Infrabel staff who were worried. They said there would be problems, because their shifts would be deployed too late the next day, so on Monday. So it was written in the stars that problems would arise on Monday. Were preventive measures taken at the weekend before? If so, which one? Has an assessment already been made of the calamities that this short winter offensive has brought about? If so, what was the result? Were lessons already drawn for the future? If there has been no consultation or evaluation, is it planned? Which actors will be involved? Is this only about SNCB and/or Infrabel or are port companies and local authorities involved in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u14	Mr President, Minister, it is not because there is global warming that there are no more winter pricks. We've been able to tell that this year. That comes back every year, and that reminds me of when I was working at the airport and had to intervene every year as a trade union representative because insufficient measures had been taken every time the airport had to deal with freezing rain. Once again, we can see that there are considerable consequences for rail passengers, such as delays, abolished trains and SNCB staff who did not get to work. A lot of travelers had problems. In Pepinster, for example, someone broke his ankle. If there had been staff there, this could perhaps have been avoided. In the Netherlands the situation was even worse and almost no trains drove all day. Of course, it was colder there than here. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. How many trains were abolished during the winter shot in February? How many minutes of extra delay has winter weather caused? How many switches were frozen? How can this be prevented? Who is responsible for keeping the SNCB parkings and platforms ice-free? Who is responsible for keeping the station environment ice-free in the unmanned stations? Have any accidents been reported as a result of this weather at or around the stations, for example on the parkings or the platform? If so, how much and where exactly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u15	Mrs Jadin has not joined us anymore, so her question No. 55014039C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u16	Colleagues, we have recently had a very cold winter episode of almost a week. In winter, ice on the catenary and the loss of grip on trains are likely to cause significant disruption to traffic. All rail networks in any country are subject to this hazard. Our neighbours in the Netherlands had to stop traffic because of these climatic conditions. In our case, the efforts of the services of Infrabel and SNCB have greatly reduced disruptions on the network. I would like to congratulate the workers who have been activated by these extreme temperatures and to thank them for their commitment. The two railway undertakings are taking steps to deal best with weather conditions such as those we have experienced. These conditions are closely monitored in order to be able to react effectively. In this way, a joint winter plan between Infrabel and SNCB describes the equipment, infrastructure and human resources needed to provide service and reception, particularly in the vicinity of stations, car parks and docks – each stop point being covered in this framework. Employees and rolling stock are prepared under these conditions. For example, train drivers are very alert, with adjusted braking speed and behaviour. There is also a series of preventive provisions. I will mention some of them to you, and if you wish to have a complete list, I can give it to you. In the event of severe night frost, the locomotives and motor vehicles remain under tension. At a temperature below zero, the equipment is heated to maintain a temperature of five degrees, in order to make the first departure of the train as smooth as possible. The staff also makes every effort to make the platforms and station accesses snow free, as well as the railway and alternate bundles in the workshops. In the workshops additional technicians are provided to repair defective equipment as quickly as possible. About thirty locomotives were equipped with a special grinder made of steel to scrape ice off the overhead line. In Arlen antifreeze is applied at the bottom of the trains to avoid accumulation of snow and ice. Furthermore, I know that Infrabel has already sought the expertise of foreign network operators – Polish and Italian in particular – in order to draw on their good practices. This comparison shows that Infrabel is already using most of the measures used elsewhere to limit the impact of winter weather conditions on travellers. As far as Mr Roggeman's question on reception at the station is concerned, it is important to know that SNCB closes its stations every night for a few hours to clean them. This is particularly important during this period of COVID-19 pandemic because the property needs disinfection. The closure usually takes place between the passage of the last train and the arrival of the first train. That means between 1:30 and 4:00 in the morning. In a period of extreme cold as we have known it, SNCB activates its plan for heavy cold waves. This allows people who do not find nightcare to stay in the country's five major stations: Brussels-Zuid, Ghent-Sint-Pieters, Antwerp-Central, Liège-Guillemins and Charleroi-South. I thank SNCB for this very appreciated and very normal act of solidarity. When this plan is activated, SNCB's Corporate Security Service has agreements with the cities concerned to contact the various social services and housing services with a view to finding a different accommodation from the station. If these services cannot accommodate these people or if people do not want to be accommodated there, they can stay exceptionally in the station. SNCB does not give up maximum capacity. However, the situation must remain manageable. The ultimate goal remains to send the people to the appropriate nightcare facility. It cannot be the intention to transfer the responsibility of homeless care to a public transport company in the longer term. I would also like to tell you that SNCB has three people on the ground all year round who are responsible for reaching vulnerable people and referring them to the right social services. SNCB may have to do an additional cleaning, but welcoming people in very cold weather at night does not in itself incur any additional costs. Particular attention is paid to respecting social distance. The rooms are large enough to provide ventilation. The most humane solution is to work upstream and prevent people from becoming homeless. If not, it is better to provide a structural solution that allows people to enjoy a minimum of comfort, which is not the case in the station. The station is the last solution to avoid sleeping on the streets in very cold weather, but it is a necessary solution to save lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I agree with you that homeless shelter in the stations is not a structural solution. This may provide a final safety net in exceptional circumstances, but it is not intended that such tasks should be transferred to the public transport company.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u18	Mr President, Minister, I would like to join you in thanking the workers who have made the rail system work as well as possible in difficult circumstances. Most of that has been done, which is a good thing. I hope that lessons will be drawn again and that any adjustments will be made for the next time this happens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u19	Minister, I think we were right to point out that this is a year in which things have gone well. Nevertheless, it is clear that the evaluation will still have to be carried out, particularly in view of the various problems encountered. This evaluation will have to be as outsourced as possible, in partnership with workers' and users' representatives, in order to always do better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. We'll follow up on this. I have nothing else to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u21	Thank you, Minister, but I do not think that you have actually answered two thirds of the questions. So I'm just gonna sit on my hunger. You say that the staff must also keep the stations ice-free, but in many stations there is no staff anymore. On the basis of your answer, I do not know how you will proceed. I just didn't get an answer to a lot of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. The timetable was indeed a bit disturbed, but it was all rather uncomfortable, compared to the situation at our northern neighbors. The employees of SNCB and Infrabel therefore certainly deserve a plume. This may be a topical debate, but I can also see that the summer is coming. That is why I think it is important that we look ahead to a summer plan so that we do not have to reheat the trains, and certainly not the train passengers. That is why I ask you to do something about this too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u23	Mr President, Minister, the Spartacus rapid tram project already has a long history in our province, which I will spare you. There is little left of the original plan for a speed tram between Hasselt and Maastricht stations today. Although I respect the Flemish coalition agreement, which I confirmed in this committee not so long ago, it is my personal conviction that these resources are better deployed elsewhere in our province. Instead of releasing hundreds of millions of euros for a sub-optimal tram project, which transports purchasing power from our own inner cities to the commercial centre of Maastricht, I would continue to speak in the conditional wisdom of the historic railway line 20 Hasselt-Maastricht can be restored. Minister, how do you feel about this project? Are you fond of the idea of a cross-border railway line between the two Limburgs, although in case the Spartacus rapid tram line would still die?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u24	Mr Toventos, you have ten minutes to explain your interpretation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u25	Mr President, I will reassure everyone, because I certainly do not need ten minutes. Minister, the Federal Government's policy statement states that the federal government wants to encourage more people to take the train, to increase the supply of rail sensitively, to improve the connection with foreign rail networks and to make a strong commitment to multimodal and collective mobility. In the light of these objectives, it is actually incomprehensible and even almost unacceptable that Flanders, and specifically Limburg, does not have any direct rail link to the Netherlands and the German Ruhr area, which is particularly economically important. Neither does Flanders have a direct connection to the internationally important three-country route, the railway link connecting the German Aachen with the Dutch Maastricht and the Belgian station in Liège. However, the infrastructure needed to establish a rail link between Hasselt and Maastricht is largely available. After all, from Hasselt to Bilzen railway 20 is already being driven electrically and from the other part, to Maastricht, the bed is largely intact. A study carried out by an expert team of former railway company employees, Remembrance Committee Line 20, shows that it should be possible to reactivate the part of the track that is not currently being driven at a relatively limited cost. However, it is crucial that the plans for the delivery of a permit to demolish the Maasbrug by the provincial government of Nederlands Limburg do not go ahead. The effective dismantling of this strategically important bridge would make future rail traffic to Maastricht via railway line 20 permanently impossible. It is important that a decisive initiative is taken by the government with great urgency in order to avoid the threat and permanent economic and mobility damage to Flanders. What action has the government taken to prevent the Dutch plans to break down the bridge over the Meuse, which is important for Flanders? In what way does the government see an opportunity for Flanders to make rapid progress towards Maastricht?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u26	Mr President, Mr Raskin, Mr Toventors, I am well aware of the various questions about cross-border connections that live in the province of Limburg, both on line 20 and on other routes, on which I am regularly asked questions. With regard to the reopening of line 20, which you are proposing here, I would point out that there are no plans in this direction at the moment. Infrabel currently coordinates with De Lijn a number of aspects in the context of the realisation of line 1 of the Spartacus project, a rapid tram project of the Flemish government, for which considerable preparations have already been made. As you may also know, this planned speed tram uses to a large extent the bed of the historic line 20. For a comprehensive outline of the progress of this project, I would refer you to my excellent Flemish colleague, Mrs Lydia Peeters, who explained this several times in November, December and January in the Flemish Parliament. I will of course continue to be interested in the development of the project, because of the importance of the intermodal opening of Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, although it was not an answer to my question. I know that there are currently no concrete plans at SNCB for this railway line, because Spartacus line 1 is still being studied. The reference to Mrs Peeters is very kind, but I also know about Spartacus line 1. That is just stuck at the moment, because there are problems with the reverse of the route in Hasselt. I wouldn't dare bet my dime on that line ever coming. Last week we saw an example with the Spartacus line 2, which was also declared dead by Mrs Peeters. There won't be any more trams there. I think we should be forward-looking and prepared here when that Spartacus line 1 to Maastricht will also be buried. My question to you was, if that Spartacus line 1 were to die, how do you feel about this proposal? On another occasion, when Spartacus is buried even more, I will question you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am glad to hear that you are aware of the great importance of this dossier. That is, of course, also the result of the attention we are drawing to it. Indeed, the discussion about the speed tram 1 is taking place in the Flemish Parliament. I agree with Mr Raskin. I call it a completely worthless project, because the station is not even reached in Hasselt or Maastricht. So we're missing huge opportunities there. Very essential, in any way, for the opening of Limburg and Flanders is that the Maasbrug is not demolished in the Netherlands. As long as the plan for Spartacus line 1 is stuck, the sense of urgency to keep the Meuse Bridge open is not seen in the Netherlands and there are plans to break it down. I think that the federal government has a role to play there, to contact the Dutch colleagues of the provincial government of Nederlands Limburg to absolutely avoid the breakdown of the Maasbrug, because that is of enormous strategic and economic importance for Limburg and Flanders. That is why I have tabled a motion of recommendation to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u29	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Frank Toventors and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Frank Toventors and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - considering the government's mobility plans to lead more people to the use of the train; - considering the Government's mobility plans for a sensitive expansion of rail supply; - considering the Government's mobility plans to improve connections with foreign rail networks; - considering the Government's mobility plans to focus on multimodal and collective mobility; - whereas Flanders does not have any direct rail connection to the international three-country train Aachen - Maastricht - Liège; - whereas Flanders does not have any direct access to the German Ruhr area; - whereas the Flemish Government's money-consuming rapid tram project does not link up with the Hasselt and Maastricht stations; - whereas the dismantling of the Maasbrug would make it definitively impossible to connect the Hasselt and Maastricht stations via railway line 20; - whereas most of the necessary infrastructure of railway line 20 is still available, - whereas the part of railway line 20 to be reactivated is rather limited so that it can be at a relatively limited cost; - whereas a dedicated team of memorial committee line 20 is available to provide support with the necessary contacts and know-how; asks the government - immediately initiate the necessary consultation with the provincial government of the Netherlands Limburg in order to prevent the demolition of the Meuse Bridge; - take the necessary steps to enable railway line 20 to be reactivated and operated so that train traffic between Hasselt and Maastricht can be restored." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Frank Troosters and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l'interpellation de M. Frank Toventors and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - considering the government's mobility projects aimed at increasing the number of people making use of the train; - considering the government's mobility projects aimed at significantly expanding the rail supply; - considering government mobility projects aimed at improving links with foreign rail networks; - considering government mobility projects aimed at investing in multimodal and collective mobility; - Whereas Flanders has no direct rail connection to the international train of the three countries linking Aachen, Maastricht and Liège; - Whereas Flanders has no direct rail access to the Ruhr basin; - Whereas the Flemish Government's costly rapid tram project does not provide correspondence at the Hasselt and Maastricht stations; - Whereas the demolition of the Maasbrug would definitely make it impossible to link the stations of Hasselt and Maastricht via railway line 20; Whereas most of the necessary infrastructure on railway line 20 is still available; - Whereas the section of railway line 20 which should be reactivated is rather limited, so that the cost of this work would be relatively limited; - Whereas a team of experts from the Lijn 20 Herdenkings Committee is ready to support the project by providing the necessary contacts and know-how; asks the government - to start immediately the necessary consultation with the Dutch Limburg Provincial Administration in order to avoid the demolition of the Maasbrug; - undertake the necessary steps with all relevant stakeholders to reactivate and reactivate railway line 20 in order to reactivate rail traffic between Hasselt and Maastricht." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u30	I also asked this question at the end of 2019. Then I got the answer that a pilot project would be launched.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u31	Mr President, Mrs Verhaert, SNCB intends to test windows without coating. Those windows would improve the reception of cell phone signals in the carriages. The purchase process for these windows is under way, with the aim of testing this type of windows on about 20 M6 sets by the end of 2021. Depending on the satisfaction of this test phase, the project for the remaining equipment can be continued from the second half of 2022. That is what SNCB has told me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I look forward to those custom windows and especially to a better internet connection, which offers added value on the trains, especially during a longer travel route. This way you can update on the way, read newspapers and so on. The connection failure is often very annoying. I hope that we can make progress in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u33	Mr. President, Minister, on December 13, 2020, SNCB launched its new transportation plan for an IC and suburban train offering increased by 4.7% by 2023. That's great news. The province of Luxembourg will see the frequency on some of its lines, such as the 42 Gouvy-Luxembourg line, or the 165 Athus-Libramont line, increase, especially on weekends. Once again, I can only rejoice. However, Minister, you are aware that the province of Luxembourg is essentially structured around a single main line, the famous line 162 Arlon-Namur. Unfortunately, for many years now, it has been in the process of renewal. The work has now begun thirteen years ago. It would appear that the situation is improving in three or four years, although the date of completion of the work is officially 2027. Until then, it is necessary to find solutions to continue to develop this line and to draw its full potential even during the remaining period of work, which has a strong impact on the capacity of the line. Mr. Minister, would it be possible to increase rail capacity and supply on this line over the next three years, while continuing the work at the current pace? Will the finalisation of the Luxembourg border-Hatrival portion and the expected increase in commercial speed allow an improvement on the line? Finally, if the two answers to the two previous questions are negative, what solutions can be achieved to continue to value this line and not remain in a status quo in the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Hanus, the new SNCB transport plan contains positive news for the province of Luxembourg. The line 42 Liège-Gouvy-Luxembourg has, since December 2020, benefited from one train per hour instead of one train per two hours. The 165 line will benefit from trains on the weekend between Virton, Athus and Arlon, starting next May. In addition, line 162 has benefited, since 5 October 2020, from a hourly omnibus offer between Libramont and Arlon instead of every two hours. The work on the above line is thus already partially valued. My priority is to speed up the modernisation of Axis 3. Infrabel's work between Libramont and Arlon was completed in the fall of 2020. The entire section has been restored. It is now double track, after several years of single track on the section between Habay and Arlon, with the difficulties of a single track. Work will continue. However, it is rather complicated to combine the priority of axis 3 with an important pace of work, while at the same time increasing capacity and rail supply during this period. From the end of the work on the Hastival-Luxembourg border section, and following the approval of the new infrastructure characteristics at the end of 2020, the line speed was increased between Libramont and Arlon. This has enabled SNCB to reduce the hours of ICs running between Libramont and Arlon by two minutes, since 1 February. I know that expectations are much more important, but that is already progress. As a follow-up, I will continue my efforts to finalize the work on axis 3. However, the acceleration in the achievement of these objectives depends on the resources that can be obtained within the Belgian and European budgetary framework. In this capacity, together with my colleague, the Luxembourg Minister for Mobility, François Bausch, I sent a letter to the European Commission in order to draw the Commission's attention to the importance of this cross-border link. I hope that this process will bear fruit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u35	Mr Minister, I thank you for your answer, which, alas, I am not completely happy about. Nevertheless, I hear your willingness to make this work and the provision of this line a priority, and I can only support you in this regard. This line is indeed an important transport offer for Luxembourg commuters. It is therefore a pity that it is necessary to wait so long for this work to be carried out. In any event, we will support them and ensure that they can move forward as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u36	Mr Minister, we have already discussed the revision of the road code in your policy paper, among other things. I quote from you: 'My administration has provided for a screening of the road code which will take into account the protection of the active and also more vulnerable road users, and which should promote sustainable transition and modal shift travel and sustainable alternatives to freight transport'. That is a good objective, but I would like to know whether the revision is in line with the previous plans or whether it is a new one. Hence my questions. What does this mean for the reworked and simplified road code that has been announced long and by several of your predecessors? At that time, that was a failure of the regions to reach an agreement. Are we still working on an agreement with the Regions and what is the state of play and planning? Is the screening of the road code announced by you for active road users part of the whole revision of the road code or is it separate from it? What is the state of play and the planning? Will this mean that drivers of motorised vehicles and drivers of bicycles will be treated differently in the traffic regulations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u37	Minister, I would also like to refer to your policy paper and the government agreement. My questions are very similar to those of Mr Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u38	Mr President, since there was also a question from Mr Bombled, part of my answer is in French. I apologize to the two Flemish colleagues. In order for the revision of the Road Traffic Code to be undertaken, we must discuss it with the Regions. I have already discussed this project at the IMC Mobility meetings. Cooperation with my regional counterparts is encouraging. We can assume that no one is opposed to a coherent, understandable and improved Road Traffic Code. This will require a little more pragmatism and less legal dispersal of competences. Only then will we be able to carry out this project. In any case, that is my will. The current design is the result of consultation with all possible stakeholders from various interest groups, as well as the police, Justice and the Regions. Unfortunately, as a result of the disputes over powers, the draft has never been adopted. If we want to finalize it in this legislature, it is a sine qua non that everyone really wants to. In consultation with the regional partners, it will be considered which points should or should not be adapted. The same applies to the excesses of powers and the complete abolition of the federal road code, which was a stumbling block for the Flemish Government. On 23 June 2020, my predecessor's cabinet had sent a note with a legal analysis of the FPS Mobility and Transport on the position of the Flemish government to the Flemish Region. A reaction from the Flemish administration never came. On 13 January 2021, my cabinet sent this note to the Flemish administration and the cabinet of Flemish minister Peeters. The purpose of the note is to structure the debate on competences and, at least I hope, to enable us to reach a comparison. Regardless of the revision of the Road Traffic Code, a project is also under way to review the current Code, with a view to promoting active road users, including cyclists and pedestrians. The first phase of the procedure, i.e. the identification by my administration of the items for which adaptation is necessary, is almost complete. In a second phase, which will begin soon, a wide-ranging survey will be conducted so that all stakeholders can make their ideas known, with the aim of facilitating active modes of transport. Here too, the aim is to closely involve regional partners from the outset. The formal consultation procedure for the Regions and the Council of State is scheduled for autumn, for publication at the end of the year, if all goes well. Mr van den Bergh, the different treatment of road users is not an end in itself. However, we must not forget that the road code, which dates back to 1975, reflects that time. I would like to see the reform of traffic rules in line with the current mobility context. I would also like the traffic regulations to take account of the concerns behind the STOP principle. The most important thing is that every citizen has a real choice of means of transport and that everyone's safety is guaranteed. Of course, this can be translated into specific rules, as appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u39	Mr President, Minister, we look forward to any proposals and proposals. I've been part of the STOP principle myself once. So I am very much looking forward to the effect of that in the road code.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u40	Mr President, Minister, I agree with Mr Van den Bergh. I also sincerely wish you every success in bringing this non-evident exercise to a successful conclusion. We have seen how difficult that is sometimes in the previous legislature. I sincerely hope that we can all take steps here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u41	I am informed that Mrs Thibaut is not in a position to ask her question for family reasons. Mr Arens has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u42	Mr President, Minister, for those who do not know the province of Luxembourg, Viville is located near Arlon. We're also talking about Luxembourg, which you don't know. I can ask my question in Luxembourg if you wish, but I fear that the minister will not understand me and that there will be no translator.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u43	We often do geography here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u44	Mr President, however, I will also answer Mrs Thibaut's question, with which I am thinking, because the family situation you have set out is painful and not pleasant for her. Mrs Thibaut, Mr Arens, the answer I had given on 11 November 2020 in this committee remains valid. For SNCB, the parking lot at Viville station is not saturated and an extension would not be justified at the moment. However, I reiterate my intention to put this item on the agenda of the next meeting with my Luxembourg counterpart, the excellent François Bausch, who in the last three months has not given me the opportunity, with the desire to have an open and creative view of the question in relation to the phenomenon of the congestion of the motorway towards Luxembourg and to propose alternatives to the many commuters. As for Mrs Thibaut's question about the alternative of a two-storey car park in the current car park at Arlon station, SNCB tells me that this has not yet been studied, since there are, depending on the current traffic, sufficient places for travellers. Mr Arens, as you know because you have heard my answer to Mrs Hanus and you have another question on the subject, the modernization of Axis 3 is one of my priorities. It is clear that a parking project, or any other alternative, is all the more meaningful from the moment all the modernisation work on line 162 is completed. From then on, the speed of line 162 will be increased from 130 km/h to 160 km/h on the entire line and the train offer may be increased. Finally, in response to your last question, I am informed that work on re-electrification and signalling of track 3 at Stockem station is currently estimated at a cost of approximately €2 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer. I thought you had already met your Luxembourg counterparts in this case. That is why I expected a more detailed answer. You also said you met your friend and Walloon counterpart. I believe that it is Philippe Henry who deals with this matter. I consider that it is really possible to accomplish with the Walloon Region something important for this Park & Ride, especially thanks to carpool parking. You know that I very much count on your commitment to the environment, climate and ecology, so as to undertake these major investment projects designed to make us circulate differently, including in our province of Luxembourg. Mr President, I wish to turn my question to point 36 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u46	We take note of that, Mr. Arens. Question No 55013920C by Mr Arens is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u47	Minister, my question concerns the safety of bicycles. If, today, the largest stations in the country allow the guarding of bicycles, in the stations of the semi-rural communes, like that of Waremme, this is rarely the case. In my city, many commuters have been telling me of their dissatisfaction for years. They drop off their bike in the morning at the station and find him vandalized in the evening, as long as they find him... In addition, along the tracks of the Waremme railway station, a parking lot owned by Infrabel can accommodate about 200 cars. If the first 30 places have benefited from exemplary layout, the other places do not meet these conditions and are in an extremely precarious condition: almost non-existent lighting, chicken nests, etc. It is therefore difficult for motorists to be able to enjoy this parking lot. Minister, by 2025, the SNCB is expected to create 50,000 bicycle parking spaces. Will Waremme be among the stations that will benefit from it? If so, how many places are envisaged and under what security conditions (camera, restricted or other)? With regard to the canker constituted by the car parking lot, did Infrabel provide for a plan of accommodation? If so, within what time frame? Finally, if you confirm this work, what I hope, what will be the cost to users? Free public transport is essential, because facilitating access to public transport also means guaranteeing access for all. Do you intend to maintain the free and, therefore, the public service role assigned to SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u48	Mr Rigot, these are the answers that have been communicated to me by SNCB and Infrabel, who are co-managers of these car parks. The current car park is the property of Infrabel. SNCB may consider the resumption, with the agreement of Infrabel, in order to make the necessary improvements to the situation. As regards the deployment of SNCB's bicycle strategy, it runs until 2028 and will take into account the impact of the health crisis on public transport. The capacity extensions per station are calculated on the basis of the current use of shelters, the degree of occupancy, the station's potential and growth forecasts. In the case of the Waremme station, SNCB is mainly considering the renewal of bicycle shelters, in line with the standardization of equipment and the creation of a secure shelter, which is currently lacking. At the Mobility Committee on 12 January, we made extensive reference to SNCB's parking strategy. In particular, I have indicated that, for the past ten years, SNCB has been pursuing the same strategy, which provides that the expansion of a car park is preceded by the installation of an access control device in the existing car park, in order to know the real needs of SNCB's customers. It has been found that many customers (30%) who come by car live less than three kilometres from the stations. In addition, the number of customers taking the train to places where parking is paid has not decreased. SNCB even notes a modal shift towards other gentle means of transport, including bicycles. As far as your second question about the canker is concerned, this land is the property of Infrabel, but this is not the case with the parking lot. This is a wild car park that was created when the infrastructure manager dismantled some ancillary tracks in the station. However, SNCB has made some minor adjustments. Infrabel could consider the idea of renting or lending this land to install an authorized car park. Any adjustments would then fall under the responsibility of SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am glad to hear that bicycle shelters will be improved in Waremme. This is essential since in order to give the desire to use soft mobility, you must be sure that you can do so safely and protect the goods that are dear to us, with the increasing use of electric bicycles at a significant cost. As far as parking is concerned, it is necessary to use this option of sliding from Infrabel to the SNCB to increase the offer of places near the Waremme station. You said the shuttle was at the heart of your concerns. Allowing it to access the train as it wishes is tomorrow's challenge to make SNCB a public service, for all the public and on the most acceptable terms and conditions possible. I am counting on you to consider this option and perhaps have a discussion with the city of Waremme to develop a new parking lot closer to the station.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u50	My question was tabled a while ago, of course, before the Dutch Government resigned. I refer to the question submitted in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u51	Minister, 2021 is the European Year of Rail for the European Commission. This should mean that extra attention is paid to rail transport. In this respect, your Dutch colleague, Minister van Veldhoven, responsible for Infrastructure and Water State, called for a trilateral consultation with Germany and Belgium to agree, among other things, on cross-border rail transport in the medium term, until 2040. That fits perfectly with your policy statement. You have already announced that you want to work on better cross-border connections. At the end of last year, there was also a call for a European rail platform to be set up, representing both the Member States of the European Commission and the railway companies themselves. That foundation was scheduled for next summer. What is your own view on such a trilateral consultation between the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany? Have you already had contacts with your competent colleagues from the relevant European Member States? What is the state of play? Do you have certain priorities or themes in mind which might be susceptible to such consultation? Are you also planning similar initiatives with your French or Luxembourg colleagues? What is the state of the European rail platform?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u52	Minister, I too find it interesting to see with the various countries which train services can be provided. However, my questions specifically concern the consultation with the Netherlands, rather than the trilateral consultation in which the Netherlands would be involved. I refer again to the discussion of the policy paper. You indicated that you would schedule a consultation with your Dutch colleague in early 2021. The political situation there has, of course, changed somewhat now. Such consultations could well have a well-stocked agenda. Just think of the possibility of extending the supply of international trains between Schiphol and Zaventem, the three-country train around Maastricht, the Hamont-Weert link, which we mentioned last time, the freight line 11, line 12 between Antwerp and Roosendaal, Ghent-Terneuzen and so on. With the ambition to blur the borders also on the railways, a good alignment of rail policy with neighbouring countries is crucial, especially in a Benelux context. In the Benelux Parliament, moreover, such links are also mentioned very frequently. Reference can also be made to repeated recommendations made by the Benelux Parliament on this matter. Mr Parent is also a member of that Parliament. So he can testify to that. Although this consultation is urgent and important for a number of dossiers, it is possible that the political situation in the Netherlands is making this difficult at the moment, as I mentioned earlier. Mr Minister, have you already consulted your Dutch colleague, who is responsible for rail transport on cross-border rail records? If so, can you report on this? Have there been any informal contacts on these files? If there has been no consultation, this will still be organised, when and with what agenda? For the Amsterdam-Brussels connection via Schiphol and Zaventem, the Dutch government and the NS have put forward an ambitious plan for expanding the offer. For this purpose, almost ten years after the fiasco with the Fyra trains, new trains would be purchased. It was supposed to be Alstom's ICNG trains. The train connection is realized by the NS and SNCB together. Does SNCB also have a role or a share in the purchase of new trains for the Brussels-Amsterdam connection? Is SNCB involved in plans to drastically increase the frequency of this connection? Is there a cooperation agreement on this? Or should a new cooperation agreement be concluded? When will the new trains be placed on this connection? Does this affect the Belgian stations on this connection?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u53	Mr President, it is true that we have talked about this subject in the context of a previous debate. The planets seem to be in line with rail cooperation. This is very good: if mobility is to be a freedom, it must not embarrass itself from the borders. Cross-border cooperation is at stake, particularly within the Euregio area. Of course, we remain attentive to the challenges of working with our different neighbours, but especially with our Dutch neighbours. These railway issues concern both passengers and goods. My colleague Van den Bergh spoke of a series of specific issues. I could also mention in the issues relating to Benelux, the deployment of night trains, a subject that we are currently dealing with in this House. Cooperation issues are not limited to the Netherlands. Since my Luxembourg colleagues are no longer present in the hall, I can take back their pilgrim's staff. We can talk again about the problems of cross-border cooperation, particularly in Arlon, in relation to the rolling stock which is currently in deficit, in terms of breaking the load. Minister, on these various issues of cooperation that are well on the agenda, my questions are as follows. How do you welcome this opportunity for enhanced collaboration with our Dutch neighbours? What are the priority issues you would like to discuss with your counterpart? Are you considering other initiatives of this kind, in particular with Luxembourg, even though this question and this answer have already been discussed in a previous debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u54	Thank you for your questions. I am open to any proposal concerning the development of the European rail network. I am committed to Belgium's constructive involvement in the various initiatives taken at European level to support the development and revival of the international train, both for high speed trains and conventional trains, day and night connections and short cross-border connections. I am therefore in regular contact with my European colleagues on the Board of Directors of the Transport and Mobility Ministers, at a distance in corona times. I am, of course, open to discussion with my Dutch counterpart as well as with those of other neighbouring countries. Therefore, I can only encourage consultation between the various Ministers for Mobility. I have already had the opportunity to sit at the same table as my Luxembourg counterpart, François Bausch. In addition, I was able to talk to the German, Dutch and Luxembourg Ministers of Mobility about the Corona measures. France had been invited to the meeting, but had not participated. To date I have not received an invitation from Mrs van Veldhoven for a discussion about the relations between Belgium and the Netherlands. So we have not yet had the opportunity to discuss the opening of the Kempen or the connection Hamont-Weert. For this last dossier, I would also refer to the recent topical debate on this subject. With regard to the planning for consultation with my Dutch colleague, it is important that national elections are held in the Netherlands in March. The current government is in current affairs and it is perhaps advisable to wait for the outcome of these elections and the formation of a new Dutch government. Mr Van den Bergh, as regards your question about the Amsterdam-Brussels link, SNCB informs me that it is investigating what equipment could be used on the route to the Netherlands. SNCB is not involved in the purchase of new rolling stock by the NS. SNCB and the NS are working together on a vision for the future for the period 2025 to 2035. A possible increase in the frequency on the route Brussels-Amsterdam is also considered. Several ideas are being examined, but it is still too early to conclude a concrete cooperation agreement. At present, the equipment purchased by the NS is extensively tested and the approval process has to be completed. In principle, the trains could be used on the Brussels-Amsterdam route in 2025. The equipment that SNCB will use must undergo a similar process. The time frame is also similar. This will not affect the Belgian stations on this connection. On the European rail platform, Mr Roggeman. At the Transport Council of 4 June 2020, the Political Statement on International Rail Passenger Transport was adopted by 23 European countries, including Belgium, in the so-called coalition of the willing. On this basis, the so-called IRPP, the International Rail Passenger Platform, was launched in September 2020. The aim of the Platform is, firstly, to support a European agenda for international rail passenger transport; secondly, to discuss with industry representatives the necessary measures; thirdly, to submit a report to the Transport Ministers by mid 2021. The platform met for the first time on 30 September 2020. Four sub-groups were set up. At present, the sub-groups are finalising a first version of their report. A final version of the platform's report will be presented to the Transport Ministers later this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope that you will not only look at Europe, but also opt for bilateral consultations with neighbouring countries. I have heard and heard from your reply that you have already done so a number of times, which I welcome. I also understand that it is difficult with the Netherlands, given the current political situation there, but I hope, as soon as the political situation in the Netherlands allows, that you will take the initiative for consultation with your Dutch colleague and that you will certainly put the issues of Hamant-Weert and possibly the Meuse Bridge on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. For one piece, I can join the previous speaker. It is obvious that it makes little sense to start discussions with an outgoing fellow minister. Even though we are on the eve of new elections in the Netherlands, we can assume that the formation of government in the Netherlands will be a little faster than with us, after which these talks can be launched effectively. I note, however, that you have not answered my question as to which topics you yourself will raise as a priority. Maybe you haven't made a choice in that yet. The list, as explained by colleague Van den Bergh, already gives ample choice. This interval, pending the formation of a new Dutch government, offers you the opportunity to set your priorities. We shall return to this point if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, from which I would like to draw attention to two more elements. Firstly, I note that there is nothing yet known about the future of the Brussels-Amsterdam connection, let alone what material will be used. However, I note that the Dutch new ICNG trains are also being Homologized in Belgium, which I assume has a certain purpose in mind, in particular that these trains will also be used here on that line. We are, of course, looking forward to the concrete plans on this. Secondly, you refer to the actua debate on Hamant-Weert, which we held here two weeks ago. One of the important conclusions of that actua debate was that the Netherlands will now be addressed to the conclusions in that report, namely that investments are needed on the Dutch part of that railway line. In that sense, I hope that the report has also been delivered to your Dutch colleague or to the Dutch railway company ProRail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u58	Mr Minister, a number of remarks have been made, in particular as regards the instability of the situation in the Netherlands. However, as has been pointed out, we can move towards this Europe of rail by also working to strengthen cross-border links. In this context, the situation in Luxembourg is, for the moment, a little more stable. As you announced in a previous debate, you will soon meet with your counterpart. I hope that this will be an opportunity to strengthen these cross-border links and also that this meeting can serve as a beacon for your relations with the future Dutch Minister of Mobility. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u59	Mr President, Mr Toventors, safety on the Belgian rail network is a top priority both for myself and for Infrabel. Infrabel has developed an action plan specifically to improve safety. This action plan contains a part of prevention, part of sensitisation and part of repression. In the field of prevention, the following measures can be distinguished: Firstly, to consider placing warning signs. For example, road users are made aware of the danger of getting stuck on the road. Secondly, to consider the application of identification stickers to more than 1,400 public. In the event of an accident, third parties may use such data to notify emergency services of the exact location of the crossing. Thirdly, a feasibility study on placing LED flashing lights on the barriers of certain considerations for better visibility. Fourthly, an investigation into which road markings improve the driving behaviour of road users. A feasibility study is currently under way for this project. Fifth, to consider testing the so-called warning box on six. By means of sound signals, cyclists and pedestrians are reminded of the danger of crossing. In the field of sensitisation, Infrabel launches awareness campaigns such as 'Jeroom Slagboom' or 'The reward of the good road users by Sinterklaas'. Finally, there is the repressive part, in which Infrabel regularly organises reinforced controls on reflections in cooperation with the railway police, local police and Securail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u60	Thank you for the answer, Minister. I have little to add, except that I have a great deal of sympathy for the fact that Santa Claus rewards good road users.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u61	Mr Hedebouw will not ask his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u62	Mr President, Minister, car inspection centres are a competence of the regions, but the certificates of approval are a federal competence. That's an absurd situation. Since 1 January the rates for car inspection have been adjusted. Prices have been indexed in Flanders and Brussels. In Wallonia, however, there has been a sudden increase in tariffs, without any form of debate in the Walloon Parliament. A standard check of a car costs 33 euros in Brussels and Flanders. In the Walloon region this has now been increased to 48 euros. That's a big difference, isn't it? A standard check of a van costs 37.20 euros in Brussels and Flanders. In the Walloon region this has now been increased to 62 euros. The same car inspection is almost 70% more expensive in Wallonia than in the rest of the country. The price differences are therefore high, which may lead to a competition between the inspection centres. It is free to have the car inspected from Wallonia in Flanders or Brussels and vice versa. This will lead to inspection tourism, for example from Gellingen to Brakel, a testing station on the language border that will be over-inquiryed. How do you look at the different price settings in the regions for exactly the same service? Is this not an increase in the burden of the Walloon government on the driver's hood? How can the car testing centres organise themselves well if the centres compete with different rates? Wouldn't it be better for the inspection centres to use a single pricing system for the whole country? A test certificate is valid throughout Belgium. Then why is this a regional competence? What is the benefit of this? Is it possible in future that one or two regions will apply stricter environmental standards or other technical standards for delivering a green card valid for the whole country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u63	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, your four questions on the price of the technical inspection and the car inspection attestations are the responsibility of the Regions, according to the sixth state reform. I invite you to ask my regional colleagues what is the justification for these price differences. I can imagine that there may be several reasons, such as the number of points checked or the overall quality of the service, but it is not for me to say whether it is appropriate or not. In view of your final question, on environmental standards and other technical standards, the Federal State is competent to draw up the technical requirements that a vehicle must meet. These technical standards usually come from European legislation. So I see no risk of different standards of testing in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u64	Minister, it is absurd that there are such large differences in the different parts of the country. Imagine starting tomorrow with different prices for train tickets. I think that is a very absurd situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u65	We come to the combined questions No. Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Mrs. Buyst is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u66	Mr President, Mr Buyst would also have liked to ask her question from home. Since that is not possible today, I propose that the questions be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u67	I had a very interesting answer, but we will wait for Mrs Buyst.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u68	Mr Minister, on 4 June 2020, the Chamber adopted a motion for a resolution by myself concerning the cooperation of Infrabel and SNCB in the realisation of cycle motorways. It was then adopted by a very large majority of 149 votes out of 150, if I recall correctly, only one colleague abstained. This approval has been passed for several months. You took office in October five months ago. I wondered whether you have already started implementing this resolution. Have you contacted SNCB and Infrabel about this? Are there any steps being taken? Has Infrabel changed its policy of considering this matter? What's the deal with SNCB? In the meantime, has Infrabel concluded agreements with local authorities on the basis of the conclusion of consideration, taking into account the questions raised in the resolution, specifically that it should no longer be the intention to use bike motorway files to encourage local authorities to close down? In the meantime, have such management agreements been concluded with local authorities? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u69	Mr Minister, the resolution was indeed adopted in this committee and has already been explained by my colleague Mr Roggeman. The resolution also called for this recommendation to be firmly anchored in the new management contracts of Infrabel and SNCB respectively. They are not yet available, so I will have a question about that in a moment. I'd have liked to have had some extra explanation anyway. Municipal authorities and provinces are working hard to create new bike highways or bicycle ostrades, as well as in my municipality. Unfortunately, there is little about Infrabel's benevolent attitude. Both myself and fellow mayors and other local authorities are faced with a public undertaking that is negative and not very sympathetic. For example, in many cases, an agreement can only be reached for Infrabel if municipalities agree to the full target image study. This is a target that local authorities have often had difficulty with given the heavy impact of abolishing local consideration. Infrabel's attitude does not benefit the realization of bike highways. Although the provinces and municipalities want to make a lot of work on more pleasant cycling highways, our public companies are on the brakes. What do you think of the attitude of Infrabel and SNCB? What initiatives have you taken at Infrabel to achieve a smooth realization of the bike highways? Will you make agreements with Infrabel about how they cooperate with local authorities in the construction of bicycle ostrades? What initiatives will you take pending the new management contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u70	My answer is long, because it is an important subject. Mrs Verhaert, Mr Roggeman, the resolution you tabled together with Mr Vandenbroucke and Mr Van den Bergh, among others, is well known to me. Personally, I am convinced that the federal state, the Regions and the municipalities must join forces to get as many people cycling as possible. In Belgium too many short and medium journeys are still made by car. Provided that the right framework and the right infrastructure can be done these rides by bike. This is more sustainable and healthier, and this applies both to work and to pleasure. You may not know, but I am also a great bike lover, in my spare time but also for professional trips. So I can testify from personal experience that the bike is an incredibly pleasant means of transport. I am therefore very pleased that the government agreement regards the development of the highways as a priority investment. SNCB informs me that she has been actively involved in the development of bicycle infrastructure for many years, throughout the country but especially in Flanders. So she'd like to cooperate where she can. SNCB is currently receiving a lot of questions from the Region, the provinces and the municipalities. This concerns the demand for the purchase of a site, the construction of bicycle infrastructure or, for example, the conclusion of a concession. It is true that the interests of the various parties are not always the same. That is why SNCB has established contacts with the Flemish Department of Mobility and Public Works with a view to a contact point and a strategy. This has already been the case in Wallonia, where a network of RAVeLs has been developed for many years with the Walloon Region as the sole point of contact. There is also a vision for the land and land lease agreement in question. Infrabel tells me to strongly believe in the complementarity of bike and train. Infrabel therefore works closely with the provinces, the Regions and municipalities, among others. For example, it provides space, builds bicycle tunnels and sets out its plans for considering the bicycle networks. In this respect, for example, Infrabel has a cooperation agreement and a periodic consultation with the province of East Flanders. Cooperation in current cases also exists in the other provinces. This cooperation is positive and constructive and will continue. Additional synergies will be sought where possible. That was Infrabel's response to consideration and local files. Mr Roggeman, in reply to your questions on the closure of consideration and the link with bike highways, Infrabel informs me that the costs are national fixed standard costs that Infrabel charges for the occupation of its land. The construction of cycle motorways along a railway line has an impact on the safety of a road. After all, additional traffic is being created along or over the railway line. The specific situation on the ground calls for proper coordination in the area of security. For example, a safe side change of a bike highway should be done via a tunnel or bridge. In order to ensure a secure infrastructure, there is always a search for coordination between different programmes. For locations where no agreement has yet been reached, further consultations will be launched. Despite the corona pandemic, significant progress was made in several target image files. This is the case in Deinze, Lokeren, Evergem, Oosterzele, Geel and Lommel, among others. Several agreements were reached on the full mobility alternative or on specific consideration. However, an agreement in principle is only a first step. As soon as the epidemic is over, Infrabel wants to reorganise information markets. Improvements to the proposal of Infrabel and the municipality can thus be made by citizens and local residents. Infrabel wants to conclude agreements with all municipalities that wish to build a bicycle road on their domain and that may have an impact on safety or the flow of traffic. A target figure has already been proposed in more than 75% of the dossiers. In Bilzen, Berlaar, Hoeselt, Wezemaal, Sint-Niklaas, Deinze, Waver, Bierges and Doornik there are initiatives. However, there is always room for improvement. Infrabel and SNCB cannot build a bicycle highway themselves, but they can, and want to, facilitate the construction by others, of course to the extent possible. My administration, the FPS Mobility, has therefore launched consultations with SNCB and Infrabel to see how we can facilitate the construction of bike motorways. My cabinet also has regular consultations with the cabinet of the regional colleagues to facilitate their work on bike motorways, among other things in the field of cooperation with Infrabel and SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u71	Minister, I think it is wonderful that you fully endorse the importance of the resolution and I have listened carefully to your reply, most of which, of course, has been provided by Infrabel himself. In that reply, it stresses his good will in relation to the projects for the highways of bicycles, but as ships in Dendermonde, I have to say that practice on the ground is sometimes different. I also hear that from a lot of other municipalities. The construction of bike motorways is sometimes taken advantage of by Infrabel to explicitly put municipalities on the block. These projects can only be carried out on condition that a number of considerations are closed. I note that Infrabel stresses his benevolence, but it is important to check that against reality. I would therefore like to draw your attention to the fact that Infrabel sometimes acts differently than it claims. With regard to the closure of that consideration, it obviously has its own business objectives, something I can certainly place. The resolution is clear, however, and the House calls on Infrabel to stop using the bike highways as a means of exerting pressure on the adjustment of consideration and to stop charging excessive occupancy fees. In your reply, it still defends that remuneration, which I regret. I would like to draw your attention to that. The reality is, of course, that this is difficult to enforce as an autonomous public body in relation to Infrabel, as long as there is no new management contract on the table. It has been mentioned before, but if we are looking for additional reasons to conclude a new management contract with Infrabel and SNCB as soon as possible, we have found another one here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have to join my colleague Mr Roggeman when he says that the adoption of the target image and the closure of consideration is being used or even abused to realize bicycle paths or even bicycle ostrades. That is why I think it is very important that the provisions in the resolution are included in the management agreement. You like to ride a bike, and so do I. To cycle, there is a need for safe and sufficient infrastructure. I therefore hope that Infrabel will adopt a different attitude on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u73	Mr President, Minister, I will explain my two questions together. From the European Relance Fund you have claimed EUR 477 million to invest in the further development of port tracks in particular. According to previous press releases, you have provided Mr Dermine with a detailed overview of the distribution of these funds by rail project. Could you also deliver that list to the Chambers Committee? How did the priorities and project selection come into being? Have you consulted with other partners, in particular the port authorities and local authorities, but specifically the Regions? They have been making their railway priorities known to us for years. Have you taken that into account? Did you involve the regional authorities in that decision? Will these funds also be used to improve the security of consideration in port areas? If so, where are works planned? In the communication on the distribution of resources and the federal coronarelance plan in general, it was noted that the Prime Minister communicated that the 60/40 key normally used for the distribution of rail investments in this file would not be used in this distribution. This was later contradicted by Mr Dermine in the Chamber. He was quite explicit about that and said that the 60/40 key would be applied. Will a 60/40 distribution be applied or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of January, the federal government reached an initial agreement on the European Plan for Recovery and Weability, with strong ambition for the climate. I am pleased that more than 50% of the Belgian projects to be submitted to the European Union are part of the greeneal dynamics. Of the federal envelope of EUR 1.25 billion, the Belgian Government has asked for EUR 365 million for the modernisation of rail. The Federal Government's last proposal consists of eight sheets, divided into three categories for this total of EUR 365 million. These projects were selected on the basis of the two criteria imposed by Europe, digital and climate, and the priorities of the government agreement. The sheets include the investment of the Boost 21 plan and are in line with this plan. This EUR 365 million is distributed as follows: The first category concerns investment in railway infrastructure, amounting to EUR 275 million. The ports of our country fall under this category. This was a strong demand from the sector and is fully in line with the Government's ambition to double rail freight transport by 2030. The modernisation of the Brussels-Luxembourg railway axis is also an important part of this category, as is the improvement in the flow of rail traffic in Brussels. The second category concerns public transport, for EUR 75 million. The third category concerns smart mobility, for 15 million euros, in particular for the digitisation of tickets. As you know, this government has submitted a series of projects worth EUR 1.6 billion, or 130 percent of the total amount allocated by Europe. The total federal list of projects will therefore be revised. Some of them will not be stopped. Nevertheless, given the importance of reinvestment for rail, I will urge my government colleagues to keep these projects in the final envelope for Europe. On the concrete projects that will be carried out through this envelope, I will only be able to make a statement when the final choice is known by the European Commission. After all, rail is a solution for the future of Belgium and Europe. Again and again I am determined to make it the backbone of mobility in Belgium. This is just the beginning. Let's keep investing in the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u75	Mr Minister, I have not received a specific answer to any of the questions, but I understand that this distribution is not yet final and that there is still a great deal of uncertainty. I also understand that you did not make that selection in consultation with the regions. Since the final decision has yet to be taken, I think it would be interesting to put this issue to the Conciliation Committee and also to vote on the violins and to listen to the priorities of the regions in view of the choice that still has to be made. I also understand that the impact on the 60/40 distribution is not yet clear. It seems strange to me that Secretary of State Dermine communicated that it would be enforced. In any case, we do not need to maintain that 60/40 key for us, Minister. I think that this is an instrument which, in practice, mainly maintains the waffle iron policy on the railways. I would like to point out that this is also counterproductive for the interests of travellers. When one looks at where travel takes place, it is largely in Flanders. One should go to a 65/35 ratio sooner. This key works at the disadvantage of the traveller and Flanders, and is thus also a hidden transfer to Wallonia. If that can disappear, it is not a problem for us, but it is a matter of proportional proportion to the number of passengers actually using the train. Finally, we are trying to help passengers and commuters in the best possible way through our services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. With regard to Mr Roggeman's comments on the key, I can only agree with him. I also understand that there is very little concrete for the rest. I hope that there will be sufficient attention and sufficient resources available for two items that I consider to be very important: accessibility and safety on the railways. For the rest, I leave the answer to my good colleague De Spiegeleer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u77	Mr President, you just praised our reference to the written question. Maybe I should have asked my question literally, because as my predecessors said, it was a bit of fishing for the answers. It wasn't very concrete. I understand that exact figures and percentages cannot yet be given, but your answers were very vague, Minister. That worries me a little bit about the future. This will undoubtedly be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u78	Infrabel is working on the extension of the freight corridor between Dendermonde and Lebbeke. Infrabel plans to lay additional tracks on the north side of railway line 53 over a distance of two kilometers, namely from the Mandekensstraat to beyond the Hullekensstraat. This will take into account a possible positive response in the study on the re-upgrading of rail line 52. Enlargement seems not to be easy outside the urban area of Dendermonde and now Infrabel wants to expand in the built-up areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u79	Mr Roggeman, Infrabel tells me that the construction of these slipways is necessary in view of the European standard. This means that freight trains with a length of up to 740 metres must be able to be received on the Belgian rail network. This project is also part of the rail priorities put forward by the Flemish Region. The compatibility between this project and the reactivation of line 52 will always be preserved. One project is not allowed to mortgage the other. The infrastructure adjustments and possible overlap will be the subject of further studies. As mentioned at the previous meeting of the Chambers Committee, this is further examined. The study is still ongoing. A cross-section with the various infrastructures will be established. Expropriation will be required in certain places. However, Infrabel plans its study in such a way that the expropriation is reduced to a minimum. The freight corridors are part of the multi-annual strategic investment plan. It provides EUR 14 million for the construction of freight corridors. Two locations are now blocked: Lokeren and Dendermonde. A more detailed estimate for Dendermonde will be made in the detailed study.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I am eagerly looking forward to the results of that study. Do you happen to know when these results of the additional study are expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u81	I do not have that information, but you can always submit a new oral question or put a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u82	Okay. To be continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u83	Thank you for your question, Mr Roggeman. I would like to point out that it is advisable for you, neither for your colleagues, nor for myself, nor for the interpreters to put such detailed questions orally. It's better done in writing. An Excel table is not ideal for oral declamation. I therefore propose that you submit your questions in writing to a detailed overview. I can tell you that I am committed to the well-being of our railway workers. The railway companies also guarantee me that taking care of all employees is a top priority. I'll give you a non-exhaustive list of initiatives taken by the HR departments of Infrabel, SNCB and HR Rail. Firstly, a global prevention plan and annual action plans with relevant and realistic improvement programmes. Secondly, a psychosocial risk analysis of the entire staff at appropriate times. Thirdly, optimising the policy based on that analysis. Fourthly, health promotion on the basis of the energy programme. Fifth, stress and burn-out coaches that set up individual pathways for employees. Infrabel, SNCB and HR Rail also have trusted persons where each employee can seek support for psychosocial risks at work. Of course, all employees of the Belgian railways can also contact the external prevention service IDEWE.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u84	Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is important that the many HR departments of our railway system should focus on prevention. A company such as SNCB, with its own separate HR-joint venture, can nevertheless expect sophisticated and effective initiatives to promote the well-being and well-being of its staff. As far as the provision of the data is concerned, you refer to the possibility of submitting a written question, but I would like to point out that you too have the possibility of simply making that information available to the services here in the form of a table and submitting it to the secretariat. You know this very well, because we have been able to work well together in the past. I would not mind getting the same information through written questions if it were not for the time being of many written questions to be unfortunately exceeded, even to the extent that some written questions simply lapse. You leave me no choice. I will try to obtain the information requested by means of a written question, but I regret that we have to do double work in this way. For the people of your cabinet, too, it makes little sense for us to saddle each other with the repetition of more of the same, but if that is the way you prefer, then I will take it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u85	Mr Minister, I would like to put on the table an issue that you will encounter many more times in the coming years. It concerns the necessary investments in the rail link between Ghent and Terneuzen and throughout the North Sea Port area. On 11 June 2020, in the Chamber, we adopted the resolution asking the federal government to come up with a common vision with the Dutch government on the cross-border rail network for goods and persons in the Ghent and Terneuzen Canal Zone." In the meantime, steps have already been taken and a Memorandum of Understanding Rail Ghent Terneuzen (RGT) circulates with the aim of reaching agreements between the FOD Mobility and Transport, the municipality of Terneuzen, Infrabel, the Dutch Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State, the Flemish Department of Mobility and Public Works, North Sea Port, ProRail, the province of East Flanders, the province of Zeeland and the city of Ghent on infrastructure measures in function of the realisation of the railway project Rail Ghent Terneuzen. I know the city of Ghent has already approved it. I was present in the city council to which we confirmed that. The aim of this project is to unlock the port area along two lines with a robust rail network to ensure sustainable growth of the North Sea Port district. The total cost is estimated at EUR 200 million, according to the Memorandum of Understanding to divide fifty-fifty between the Belgian and Dutch partners, and then on the Belgian side it is necessary to decide between the Belgian partners who will bear the costs and when. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Did you sign the Memorandum of Understanding Rail Ghent Terneuzen? After all, your signature is crucial. Have you proposed this project RGT as a priority investment project in the context of the use of European relay funds? Can you already tell us what budget you are providing for this project, or do you see other funding options? Has the agreement in principle between the federal government, the Flemish government and Infrabel on the reservation of EUR 10.8 million for the construction of railway ducts near Zelzate already been converted into an executive cooperation agreement under the R4WO project? Will the agreed amount of EUR 10.8 million remain unchanged? Finally, what other concrete projects have you submitted to Secretary of State Dermine to ensure better access to ports? What budgets are linked to these projects? What is the timing of these projects? I understand from previous answers to questions from colleagues that you will not answer that last question, but if you can answer me very specifically to the first three questions, you will make me a lucky man.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u86	Mr President, my good colleague, Joris Vandenbroucke, perfectly summarized the Rail Ghent Terneuzen project, so I can confine myself to a few subsequent questions. It is certainly not unknown to you that that railway line becomes an indispensable link in the Scheldt-Seine connection over the water. The Ghent-Terneuzen Canal will be a crucial link in the Rotterdam-Paris connection, and this will certainly please you. Thousands of trucks will be taken off the road to the railway and to the water every year. It is once again an important contribution to our mobility and climate. While we are discussing this resolution, the port of Antwerp merged with the port of Zeebrugge. Now there is just a booking strip for a railway line Zeebrugge-Antwerp, which crosses the L204 railway line. That will undoubtedly contribute even more, and I am sure that the railway will be there, even though it is not so well known in Zelzate that it will be able to get to that new link. Our resolution was adopted unanimously in plenary. In this Committee on Mobility, the resolution was proposed in eight minutes and adopted unanimously. The chairman of the committee certainly remembers that. What is stopping you, Minister, from signing this essential declaration of intent? Do you expect a greater commitment from certain partners to this end? Do you also see this declaration of intent as a commitment to effective implementation? Who is the central coordinator for you to track the entire file: your cabinet, the FPS Mobility, Infrabel or North Sea Port? Within the European Recovery and Resilience Facility, you are entitled to EUR 275 million, or it is EUR 477 million, which is not clear to me. Will you give priority to this rail section of Ghent-Terneuzen, which is also essential for the sustainable development of our freight transport in general? Not only the transport of goods, but also the transport of passengers in this area brings our country and the Netherlands even closer together, which is inconceivablely important for the future of an entire region. You will now have the opportunity to take a crucial step, especially within all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u87	Minister, Mr Vandenbroucke and Mr Briers have already presented the general explanation with a great deal of bravure. Certainly the addition of Mr Briers in the context of the port merger Zeebrugge-Antwerp is indeed a very interesting new aspect in this slope, because it crosses the line L204, which creates many opportunities. Minister, what is the overall state of play in this project? Is the project L204 one of the projects you submitted to Mr Dermine in the context of European relays to be spent? Which of the many parties involved has already been put together? Will this consultation continue on a regular basis? There are a lot of parties involved, but there is also a lot at stake. So consultation will be very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u88	The resolution tabled by Mr Vandenbroucke and Mr Briers on this subject, together with Mr Willaert, Mr Lachaert and Mr Van Bossuyt, is well known to me, as well as to the fact that the Chamber unanimously voted in favour of this resolution. Furthermore, the rail opening of the port area between Ghent and Terneuzen is in line with my vision on the sustainable development of freight transport in Belgium. The government's ambition is to double the volume of goods transported by rail in Belgium by 2030. I therefore welcome all the projects that contribute to achieving this objective. By transporting more goods by rail, we can take trucks off the road and thus reduce CO2 emissions in our country. A better opening of North Sea Port is also good for the domestic economy, for local businesses and the circular economy. Moreover, the international nature of this project is a good signal for cross-border cooperation. Mobility does not stop at borders. The railway must also be able to provide an answer. I'm giving you an update on Rail Ghent Terneuzen. As you know, there are regular consultations between the authorities concerned on both sides of the border on this dossier at different levels. Besides the federal government and Infrabel, these are also the Flemish Department of Mobility and Public Works, the province of East Flanders and the city of Ghent. On the Dutch side these are the municipality of Terneuzen, the Dutch Ministry for Infrastructure and Waterstaat, ProRail and the province of Zeeland. North Sea Port participates as a binational actor. On 2 February, I sent a letter stating that I would like to respond in principle to the request to sign the declaration of intent, provided that a number of conditions were met. The purpose of this letter is to further clarify the Memorandum of Understanding on a number of points. In my letter I distinguish the following conditions. Firstly, the clarification that it is only an intention at this stage, not a commitment to effective implementation. This depends on the results of the planned studies, the key-performance indicators identified, further decision-making by the actors concerned and the financial resources available. Secondly, a financial commitment that goes beyond the resources currently available. Two million euros for the planning phase cannot be given at the moment. Thirdly, the detailed costs mentioned in the statement are merely illustrative estimates of possible development paths that were never approved by administration. Fourthly, for the Belgian part, the direction and governance should be with the federal government and Infrabel. The role of North Sea Port is to coordinate and cooperate between the parties. Finally, a capacity study on access to the main rail network in the area between Gent-Dampoort and Gent-Sint-Pieters should be integrated into the initial studies. This should allow us to map the impact on the existing network. Any new bottlenecks or investment needs arising from them should be included in the Rail Ghent Terneuzen project as appropriate. It cannot be expected that any further steps in this project will hinder the development of passenger transport in the Ghent area. Other interested parties, such as Flanders, also had a number of comments in the same direction. However, the discussions were constructive. The above conditions were annexed to the Memorandum of Understanding and therefore form an integral part of it. I can therefore say that the official signature of the Memorandum of Understanding is scheduled for tomorrow, 24 February. However, we are still waiting for confirmation from all the parties concerned as to whether this signature can take place. Otherwise, we will continue to work constructively on this in the coming months. Mr Vandenbroucke, for the costs and the total cost you mention, it is important to stress that these costs are merely indicative estimates, which at the present stage have not been approved by the authorities concerned. The phase of the project starting after the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding is a study phase. The resources for the necessary study have already been earmarked. The signing of the Memorandum of Understanding and the implementation of the first phase do not therefore depend on the European means of relaying. At the end of this phase, which will take a long time, an evaluation will be made of the next steps that may be taken within the project. This will be done, inter alia, on the basis of the content of the studies, a number of objectively defined parameters and the financial resources available. However, the parties involved in the project intend to apply jointly for a European contribution. Because of its cross-border nature, the dossier has a good chance. For the relays and the distribution of resources from the recovery and resilience facility, I would refer you to the answer I was allowed to give earlier during the current committee to questions from several Members. It goes without saying that the availability of European funds for certain rail projects creates more opportunities for the use of Belgian funds for other rail projects. In general, I can also say that investment in rail freight is needed to meet our climate objectives and strengthen our economy. Investing a euro in the railways will bring three euros. In addition, ports such as Antwerp and Ghent create numerous non-delocalisable jobs. Finally, Mr Vandenbroucke, in reply to your question about the agreement in principle between the federal government, the Flemish government and Infrabel on the reservation of EUR 10.79 million for the project of railway line 204, which is the actualisation exercise of the implementing cooperation agreement of 5 October 2018, I can inform you that the project has been delayed due to the corona crisis. However, work on this subject has begun.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u89	Minister, you have brought good news with the announcement that the formal signing of this declaration of intent can take place tomorrow, when all parties are ready. I understand that you have set a number of conditions, which do not seem unreasonable to me. I hope that the signing can take place tomorrow and that this can really be the start of the project. I am convinced that the Rail Ghent Terneuzen project will have enormous economic added value, not only for the North Sea Port zone but for the whole of our country. You rightly pointed out that the cross-border nature of this project is actually a plus. It may even be called unique if one looks at what infrastructure plans are currently in place. There are not so many cross-border plans. So it can only increase the connectivity of our country with our northern neighbours. It is also an important project in a European perspective. You may expect further questions on this, but I am very optimistic after your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u90	Minister, I too am very pleased. I would like to point out once again that this Schelde-Seine water connection is perhaps the largest mobility project in Central Europe at the moment. Our federal government will have to press the French President to achieve this as quickly as possible. As you know, there is still a 70 km channel to be dug, and every country may now have new priorities. However, it is crucial for the link with our country that we continue to work on this. I hope you will work with the Prime Minister to ensure that President Macron gets a little push to put a rush on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u91	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive and somewhat hopeful reply. I can only join the colleagues. On the one hand, this is encouraging and, on the other hand, there are still many questions to be asked about this dossier in the future. This also indicates the importance of this dossier for Flanders and for the whole country in the event of enlargement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u92	Mr Minister, my question concerns a camping in Ghent on an area of SNCB. We read that the Ghent mayor Mathias De Clercq has contacted the CEO of SNCB with a request to take action to remove those people. It's mainly about homeless people and people without papers. What's the status today? How many people are we talking about? Is it also about families with children? Does SNCB have a procedure for putting people in such a camp of its sites? How's it going? Is it the role of SNCB to release people from its territory? What solution can SNCB offer these people?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u93	Mr President, SNCB tells me that it is not up to her to count how many people are present at the camp in Ghent. SNCB has visited the site and has established that people have built up a camp along the tracks. That situation has been reported to the services of the city of Ghent. After all, the presence of a camp so close to the tracks poses a safety risk. In consultation with the mayor, SNCB has given residents the opportunity to leave the occupied places voluntarily. On 18 January 2021, posters were added to the camp in three languages, Dutch, English and Romanian. On these posters it was reported to the residents that they had the opportunity to leave the SNCB sites voluntarily until 25 January. It is important that the posters also mention the temporary housing options that the city of Ghent made available to them. As the people have not left the site, SNCB has initiated the usual judicial procedure. It consists of having the ideal occupation determined by a bailiff. The court will soon rule on a possible evacuation. It is not for SNCB to find alternatives to those who illegally occupy its territory. Nevertheless, the social assistant and the field expert of the Corporate Security Service visited the site at the end of January, in consultation with the city. Their mission was to enter the conversation with the occupying forces. They were thus able to provide them with the contact details of the associations that could help them. SNCB sincerely hopes that the competent authorities will find a solution to deal with these people in good and safe conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u94	Minister, it is a good thing that SNCB is dealing with the people who are there in a humane way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u95	Mr President, Mr Tusters, from a historical point of view, Belgium is directed towards the world and it is not for nothing that Belgium is at the root of the European Union and of the Schengen Treaty which allows the free movement of persons. The ability to travel to other European countries quickly and smoothly in a sustainable way is therefore a very important freedom, before Corona, but even more after Corona. I would therefore like to make sure that the temporary travel restrictions, which are unfortunately needed now because of the global epidemic, the preservation, development and revival of international train connections, do not make it difficult. Railway operators are hit hard by the corona crisis, and that is certainly true for international passenger transport. Traffic and passenger numbers have fallen sharply, while in the short term there is no prospect of a return to a normal situation. This threatens the survival of different operators. However, the track plays an important role in the revival of our country. The train is also crucial for the change in energy and climate that the federal government and the European Commission want to achieve. The cost of financial support for commercial rail passenger transport in the first half of 2021 is estimated at EUR 4.1 million. That measure involves a linear reduction of the infrastructure charge by EUR 1.5 per train kilometre and a neutralisation of the costs of cancellation of train path reservations. The measure involves an automatic reduction of the costs that Infrabel charges. A specific royal decree provides for compensation for Infrabel in accordance with the applicable European rules. If the crisis persists, a new estimate will be made for a possible extension of that measure beyond June 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u97	SNCB informs me that a zero measurement was indeed carried out in 2019. The parameters used to measure the level of psychosocial well-being were the need for recovery and the joy of work. After the first zero measurement in 2019, the management body was also reported on the results of that measurement. This was an earlier qualitative evaluation without the intention to provide a percentage weighting in the annual evaluation. The collective objectives and their proportional weighting for 2021 have not yet been finalized but are in preparation. This is common for this moment of the year. If the worker's welfare parameter is added as a criterion for the variable part of the board members, this will be applied in a similar way for all board members.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u98	Thank you for the answer, we'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u99	Mr President, Minister, skeyes, who manages Belgian airspace and part of Luxembourg, needs more funding to get through the corona crisis. Skeyes already received additional resources from the federal government, as revenues from aviation have fallen sharply. The Belgian air traffic controller skeyes has already been able to count on public support in recent months through a loan from Eurocontrol. In total, this amounted to 132 million euros. Because the health crisis continues, skeyes now requires additional support. I read that in I'Echo. The revenues of skeyes come to 86 percent of airlines, which pay for services provided. These revenues have been melted away by the corona crisis, while the fixed costs continue to run. In the meantime, has skeyes applied for additional aid? If so, when did it do that and what amount does skeyes put forward? For what period does skeyes require more public support? Will you give positive advice on the granting of additional support? Do you intend to impose conditions on this? If so, which one? What role do the Regions have to play with their local airports? Are they also called upon to contribute in support of skeyes? Skeyes also manages air traffic in certain parts of Luxembourg airspace. Will Luxembourg also contribute to the additional and temporary funding of skeyes? Have there been any discussions on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u100	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I agree with the questions raised by the previous speaker. What is the state of play with regard to the support package? What questions were formulated? What did you say?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u101	The majority of skeyes' revenue comes from airlines, mainly the take-off and landing at Belgian airports controlled by skeyes. The remaining revenue comes from government and commercial activities. Since the start of the health crisis in March 2020, air traffic has fallen dramatically. Air traffic was more than 85% lower in April and May 2020 than in 2019. Although a slight recovery this summer pointed to an improvement, the second wave came in October 2020 which destroyed the started recovery. As a result, the revenues of skeyes have fallen sharply. To ensure continuity of the air navigation services performed by skeyes on behalf of the Belgian State, skeyes submitted an official request for financial support to the federal government. This dossier will soon be discussed in the Council of Ministers. Therefore, pending the government's decision, I will not go into the question of skeyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u102	Minister, I have not received so many answers. I hope we will have more answers after the Council of Ministers meets. I am also not at all clear about the regions and the aid. You didn't answer that either. The situation at the airport is, of course, very difficult. We hope that the people there will soon be able to work normally again and yet there will be some continuity for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u103	Mr Vice Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. You say the matter will be discussed at the Council of Ministers. We'll look into it after that. Until then, I'm abstaining from commenting. It is always best not to comment until a final decision has been made. It is certainly important for the airport fabric that airport structures remain strong and healthy. Given the enormous impact of the corona crisis, especially on aviation, structural support is the only way to achieve this. I don't see any other way. I am not talking about the management of a particular company. I've been able to visit skeyes. There's good management there, but it can always be better. There should be better contacts between air traffic control and leaders so that social conflicts can finally be resolved. Apart from that, it is essential for aviation to maintain skeyes. That is also the opinion of our party, which I am happy to give to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u104	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed not going well there, additional money has been requested. So we have to wait and wait and we will continue to follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u105	Minister, it is of course good news that 204 M7 vehicles have been ordered. It is also good that the production is done by Bombardier Bruges, creating 180 new jobs. That is a very good thing. However, less attention is paid to the maintenance contract for the delivered train sets. That is why I have the following questions. Is it true that SNCB has concluded a maintenance contract with Bombardier for the new trains? On what terms is the contract concluded? In this case, can Bombardier Bruges carry out the repairs and maintenance work or will they be carried out abroad, possibly by subcontracting? What will be the impact on SNCB Technics workplaces if the new trains are carried out by Bombardier or a subcontractor of Bombardier? Will there still be enough work in the SNCB workplaces to keep all the staff working? Where do you think it is best to maintain the SNCB trains? In your opinion, is that best done by SNCB itself or by any other means?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u106	Mrs Vindevoghel, the order of M7 vehicles is indeed positive news for the environment, employment and passengers, but also for the accessibility of Belgian trains. Each M7 train will be able to run with an autonomously accessible carriage, supplemented by a carriage that can accommodate passengers and bicycles. I can also reassure you. SNCB informs me that the maintenance work on the new M7 vehicles will be done in its own workshops. There is no outsourcing to the supplier or to a subcontractor. In order to make the maintenance process of the M7 vehicles as efficient as possible, SNCB and its supplier have agreed to provide support in its workshops to optimise the maintenance procedure for the M7 driving during but also after the warranty period. It is only in very specific cases, such as the maintenance and repair of electronic cards, that SNCB will use its supplier. These things require specific know-how and are very important for safety. Moreover, this method already exists for other SNCB rolling stock equipped with electronic components. An example of this is the ECTS equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u107	Thank you, Minister, for the good news. I am glad that the maintenance is done by the staff of SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u108	Thank you for your question, Mrs Van Camp. As you know, my aim is to promote complementarity between the train and regional public transport throughout the country. For this we must switch and facilitate and promote connections. The train alone will not be able to offer a credible alternative to the use of the passenger car anywhere in the country. An ambitious modal shift requires a multimodal and coordinated approach. SNCB informs me that it attaches great importance to good coordination with the transport regions in Flanders and with the Bassin de Mobilité in Wallonia. Integrating tariffs is a subject that is indeed addressed in these fora. A possible alignment of tariffs by the various public transport providers is an ambitious task. When the various parties concerned support this wish, SNCB will help to explore the possibilities for doing so. I am not in a position to express my opinion on this issue at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u109	Questions Nos. 55013351C and 55013352C by Mr.Scourneau are deferred at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only say that I regret the judgment of the Constitutional Court on compulsory insurance, but at the same time that the judgment does not really come as a surprise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u111	On 6 January 2020, through the then Minister for Mobility, Mr Bellot, the then Minister for Economic Affairs, Ms Muylle, informed me of the possible problems arising from the amendment of the law of 21 November 1989 on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance. There is no reason at the moment to change my policy plan as a result of the judgment. We must now give my colleague, Mr Dermagne, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour time to analyse the judgment and, if necessary, to amend the 1989 law. I have asked my administration to contact the FPS Economy to see what corrective measures would be taken. Two things are indeed still important to me, namely that, firstly, the restrictions on compulsory insurance do not put a brake on the use of electric bicycles and that the persons driving an electric bicycle remain vulnerable road users and, secondly, the final decision takes account of the tendering procedure. Speedpedelecs must indeed be registered. The procedure normally takes place through insurers and webDIV. The abolition of compulsory insurance for some speed pedals has therefore had an impact on the smooth running of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u112	Mr President, Minister, I take note of your answer. I understand that the judgment must be examined first and that consultations must be held. We will continue to monitor this, because I believe that this can have far-reaching consequences for users.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u113	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. You give me two points that you think are important. I would like to add a third point, namely the constitutionality that we must not lose sight of. I understand that you will first make contact with your colleague, Mr Dermagne, make an analysis and then continue the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u114	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Parent, I can provide you with the following answers. We have no information about the recent presence of Antonov An-124 in Liège where the company Volga-Dnepr Airlines based in Ulianovsk, Russia and the company Antonov Airlines based in Kiev, Ukraine operate An-124 for about ten flights per year. However, flights with these aircraft are still observed in European airspace. No special restrictions have been imposed on this type of aircraft, either on the part of their parent State, the Russian Federation and Ukraine, or on the part of the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). Volga-Dnepr Airlines reports having resumed flights with An-124s since January 7, 2021, after working in December 2020, in collaboration with its supervisory authority, to determine the extent of the problem. Many inspections have been carried out particularly on the engines of these aircraft. The investigation of the above-mentioned occurrence is normally the responsibility of the Inter-State Aviation Committee established by the Commonwealth of Independent States for independent civil aviation safety investigations, according to ICAO Annex 13. As Belgium is not involved in the investigation, our services have not been notified by the investigating body in this respect. As with all safety investigations, details of the causes of the accident are usually published only after the investigation has been completed by means of a final report. To our knowledge, no investigation reports were published on the event. This does not exclude in any way the analyses and actions carried out by the designer-builder of the aircraft type and his supervisory authority in order to reduce any risks. The risk analysis of an air operation or a particular type of aircraft is the responsibility of the civil aviation authorities of the countries concerned, in this case the Russian Federation or Ukraine. To our knowledge, these two countries have not communicated on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u115	Minister, thank you for your response. The question about the presence of this type of aircraft, in particular at Liège airport, echoes various facts concerning the flying equipment present at that airport. To paraphrase a French president, troubles often fly in a squadron. In any case, it must be noted that repeated accidents occurred in the skies of Liege, which explains the concern about the overflight of Antonov aircraft. In any event, I would like to thank you once again, Minister, for your responses, which I have taken note of, by drawing your attention to the concerns of the Liegeians about the equipment flying over their area at present, but also about the flight lines, particularly above a nuclear site. As you know, this is a major concern for our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u116	Debates of the European Parliament 55013819C and 55014017C by Mr Roggeman and Mrs Verhaert have been postponed. Mrs Van Bossuyt, in relation to her question No. 55013826C, I have no news. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Roggeman's 55013829C has been converted into a written question. The same applies to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u117	SNCB informs me that you can find the following information on its website: all information relating to the data shared by SNCB, the description of the services and the procedure to be followed to gain access to data. For the provision of open data, SNCB has been using the standard functionality of the format GTFS since 2017. In 2021, SNCB will provide a new version of the GTFS data to third parties. For this purpose, expertise has been gained in cooperation with the public bus companies. This will take advantage of the new possibilities resulting from the evolution of the GTFS format over recent years. Infrabel tells me that she has also chosen to publish public data on a specific website. This site gives citizens, researchers and businesses easy access to the data. This information is available in French, Dutch and English. They can be consulted and downloaded in different formats. They are published under the Creative Commons Zero license. It allows everyone to re-use, improve and adapt the data, regardless of the purpose and without any restrictions, except, of course, those imposed by law. Open data is considered by Infrabel as a strategic project that contributes to innovation and is registered in the general management of company data. In line with Belgian and European legal requirements relating to the re-use of public sector information, Infrabel has initially focused on the publication of certain types of information. You can find it on the sites opendata.infrabel.be, data.gov.be and transportdata.be. It is still too early to deal with this aspect of the new management contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u118	Mr Minister, it is clear that the dates opened by Infrabel are much wider than those of SNCB. I hope that SNCB will also do so, as provided for in the coalition agreement. This can produce positive results. Just look at the Netherlands, where innovative apps are developed in parallel that really add value to the traveller. I refer, for example, to GoOV, where people with disabilities are accompanied so that they can travel completely alone. I would therefore ask that SNCB should also pay sufficient attention to these open dates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u119	Minister, you will recall that a FPS Mobility survey in November 2020 showed that no less than one in three women and one in five men avoid public transport due to undesirable behaviour by fellow passengers. That number is awfully high and it is terrible. I believe that we should consider all possible ways to make travelers feel safer and to actually increase safety on public transport. At our northern neighbors, near the Dutch Railways, people can send a message via WhatsApp or SMS since 30 April when they feel unsafe. Those messages are effectively viewed by a dispatcher. Depending on the situation, assistance can be provided by a security and service team, similar to our Securail, the police or the conductor. The fact alone that people, besides calling, can easily send a message, appears to be very appreciated by many travellers in the Netherlands. That's why I've been looking into what's possible with us. With us, 24/7 calls can be made to 080030230, the number of Securail, but whatsap or texting is impossible. Nevertheless, I can perfectly imagine that in some situations it is not obvious to call. Sending a message can sometimes be faster or more discreet. If there is a reaction, then that means a big step forward. In the media, I have expressed the proposal to introduce this into us. I have received incredibly many reactions from both men and women who find it obvious that, in the event of a threat, a message can also be sent to the SNCB security services, to Securail. Minister, what is your view on the proposal to contact Securail via WhatsApp or SMS, by analogy with the system of the Dutch Railways? Are you prepared to ask SNCB to take an initiative? Can you tell me how many reports from travellers were received via Securail's phone number? Is there any evolution in those reports? How many times have these reports given rise to direct support?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u120	Mrs Verhaert, SNCB tells me to attach great importance to social media contacts with customers. SNCB is therefore accessible via WhatsApp, Twitter and Facebook Messenger. Those platforms are accessible via smartphone. Both customers and SNCB are very satisfied with the current chat function. There is therefore no question of extending it. A comparison between the different platforms on which SNCB is accessible shows that in January 2021 58.5 % of the messages went via Facebook Messenger, 26% on Twitter and 16% on WhatsApp. SNCB's social media team consists of 13 employees. I'll send you the numbers by e-mail. Mr Vandenbroucke, I have not yet taken a thorough look at the Dutch Railways pilot project. I've read about that in the paper, but I don't know the project 100% yet. I therefore need to study the pilot project a little more thoroughly before I can consider whether a Belgian equivalent is possible and useful. I must also talk to SNCB about this. It certainly seems like an interesting slope to me. Furthermore, I regret to inform you that I have not yet received the Securail figures. This does not allow me to answer your question at the moment, for which I apologise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u121	Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u122	Minister, I have noted that you are prepared to look more closely at the situation in the Netherlands and that you will be sitting with SNCB to see if such an initiative can also be implemented with us. I can only conclude from the very many reactions I have received, that a lot of travellers would be happy with that service. I hope to receive the figures from you at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u123	Thank you for your question and your interest in our track heritage, Mrs Verhaert. SNCB informs me that their evaluation is almost complete. This evaluation shall examine the need for an exceptional framework for the relevant CF. Indeed, it is possible that the accreditation process would be sufficient in accordance with the current RB, provided that appropriate operational measures are taken. The conclusions are expected in the near future. On the basis of these conclusions, the accreditation process will start, linked to a prior conformity assessment. Depending on the scenario chosen, the DVIS will have to check the conformity of the historical equipment, either in relation to the defined and approved exception framework or in relation to the proposed operational measures to comply with the current legislative framework. The possible adjustments to the regulatory framework will therefore be determined in the coming weeks. The two relevant KBs are the KB of 8 May 2014 laying down the requirements for the movement of vehicles intended exclusively for patrimonial, historical or tourist purposes on the national rail network and the KB of 6 December 2020 adopting the applicable requirements for rolling stock for the use of lanes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u124	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I look forward to the results that will be announced in the coming weeks. We'll follow up on this, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u125	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Arens' 55013920C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u126	Minister, Interparking is the third largest car park operator in Europe and is part of the Belgian real estate group AG Real Estate, with AG Insurance as its main shareholder, which made nearly EUR 1 billion of profits in 2020. There are about 10,000 people working and the group is also active in the SNCB parkings. In October 2020 Interparking decided to remove 95 jobs. Meanwhile, trade unions are in the Renault phase, while millions of dividends have been paid to shareholders. Minister, how does SNCB cooperate with Interparking in Belgium? Does SNCB have financial interests in Interparking or vice versa? Are there any buildings or plots of Interparking in part or full ownership of SNCB? You are competent for mobility in our country. A good parking policy is, of course, part of that. Interparking chooses the map of full automation, with fewer staff, including parking in or at the SNCB stations, with all the consequences for passengers and users of the parkings. Those people eventually pay for it, while no security is provided. Will you contact the management of Interparking to control manned parking instead of automatic parking to save jobs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u127	Mrs Vindevoghel, the management of station parking facilities is the responsibility of SNCB and its subsidiary B-Parking. This applies to both cars and bicycles. B-Parking is 100% owned by SNCB. Interparking does not manage SNCB parkings. Interparking has won a market consultation as a supplier of B-Parking for the provision of specialized personnel. That staff has the task of helping customers remotely in the event of an emergency. Those personnel work under the name of B-Parking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u128	If I understand correctly, does the staff work under B-Parking? Is that right? Interparking is part of B-Parking?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u129	I said what I said. I can repeat that Interparking has won a market consultation as a supplier of B-Parking for the provision of specialised personnel. That staff has the task of helping customers remotely in the event of an emergency. Those personnel work under the name of B-Parking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u130	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u131	Mrs Vindevoghel, your question No. 55013961C will be answered by Minister Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u132	Minister, a number of months ago I asked you a number of questions about the Turnhout-Binche line. I do not need to repeat the whole history of this line, but the bottom line is that SNCB has indicated that it wants a solution to this line in the next transport plan, in 2023. The studies for this purpose would have already been launched.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u133	Minister, the punctuality of the trains has improved considerably over the last corona year. However, some passengers who still take the train do not notice that. For us, Kempenaars, it's sad. In 2019 we were still the care child of the class. When we look at the punctuality figures of 2020, little has changed, with almost every week a delay of more than twenty minutes and hardly any trains that are really on time, especially for the Binche-Turnhout line and the Brussels-Mol P-train. The subject has already been and will certainly be the subject of debate in this committee in the future. Your predecessor, Minister Bellot, put forward some reasons for the delay during a topical debate. For example, there are still old locomotives and old locomotives on the line, the line is saturated and there are some major bottlenecks to infrastructure. For example, trains often have to make crossings, for example in Lier, Herentals or near Mechelen-Neckron, there is the saturation of the North-South axis in Brussels, there are often problems with the many rail roads, there are no less than three single track sections and there are also the works at the Mechelen and Vilvoorde stations. Mr. Secretary, your predecessor promised to get better. With the influx of the new M7 the rolling railway museum of the Kempen would also receive new equipment with better punctuality and comfort for the traveller. A first step, but one that is not enough for the traveller. It was also examined whether the Turnhout-Binche line could be cut for the 2023-2026 transport plan. The question is whether this will cause much damage, since the delays are mainly between Brussels-North and Turnhout and not between Binche and Brussels. Firstly, what measures are being taken to improve punctuality on the Brussels-Turnhout line? What measures are being taken specifically for the P-train from Brussels to Mol? Secondly, with the arrival of the new M7 vehicles, will there be newer equipment on the line to the Kempen? Can you explain the concrete process of material renewal here? Thirdly, what infrastructure do you think is necessary to improve punctuality on this line? What period do you see for the execution of these works?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u134	Mrs Van Camp, Mrs Verhaert, the SNCB informs me that before the division of IC11 in Brussels there are several slopes on the table, namely a split of IC11 in Brussels or the linking of Turnhout-Brussels with another link. In order to allow for one of these options, several train connections operating in Brussels need to be adapted. In doing so, account should be taken of the available infrastructure and an adaptation of IC11 should not put further pressure on the robustness of the rail network. Finally, the possibilities for adjusting IC11's path are limited due to the numerous single track sections, the many crossings with other trains and the works at Mechelen station. For these reasons, the division of IC11 can only take place in the context of a structural revision of the train supply in and around Brussels. Currently, SNCB is exploring different scenarios on how to adapt the train supply. Due to the complexity of the problem, a final solution can only be expected in 2023 when the next transport plan is put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u135	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I welcome your confirmation that the solutions will be examined and that they will be included in the next transport plan by 2023 at the latest. I would like to point out that we are a little suspicious and will continue to ask you the question with the Kempian colleagues. So don't be surprised if we're gonna be standing here again with the question again soon. We have been proposing it since 2014. So that's six years. In the meantime, we have one of the only working connections in the whole country as far as punctuality is concerned. Maybe you know that connection? Despite promises, it hasn't improved in all these years. I've systematically mapped the punctuality. I can mention the percentages here. Apart from the abolished trains, the percentages are 70 %, 60 %, 60 %, 60.80 %, the P-train is even 37 %. From the Kempen we have no options, with the saturated E313 and E34 connections, then to take the train on that route. It is a region with 500,000 inhabitants. We really insist on a solution. I am glad that you say so, but that will not prevent me from asking for the progress of concrete studies and pistes in the future, so that we do not have to hear in 2023 that the study work has yet to begin, because that was done last time when the transport plan was amended. We will continue to follow up on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u136	Thank you, Minister. As my colleague pointed out, delays are considerable, even in corona times The Brussels-Mol P train has a punctuality of 50 % to 60%. That's sad. It is regularly discussed here. There are a lot of Kempian colleagues here. I hope it will be done, because at the moment it is really dramatic for the Kempian traveller.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u137	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since Mrs Van Bossuyt has arrived, she can ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u138	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the courtesy of letting me ask my question after I was prevented from attending another committee. Minister, this question concerns the European Passenger Rights Directive. For flights cancelled as a result of the corona crisis, airlines must offer the consumer an alternative flight without additional payment, if not entitled to reimbursement. A voucher for a later date was also allowed but could not be required. As soon as it appeared that some airlines refused to comply with these clear European rules. I asked you in October for an update on these practices and you replied that there were no airlines that imposed a voucher instead of giving a refund and that your services were no longer receiving any complaints. I thought that was strange at the time, but that is all the more so now that I have received other figures which indicate that there are still problems with the reimbursement of flights cancelled as a result of the corona crisis. For example, the European Centre for Consumer Protection in Belgium has received 1087 complaints concerning the Passenger Directive in the last six months. That's not a bad thing. Minister, how many complaints have your services received on this subject in the last six months? Do you maintain your position from October that there are no more problems with airlines? If so, how do you explain the figures we received from the ECC? Will you contact the ECC to get a look at the ongoing problems? What steps will you take to ensure that passengers can assert their rights? How will you increase the awareness of the Passenger Rights cell so that the consumer knows where to deal with his complaint? Can you explain more about the complaint handling in the Passenger Rights cell? I am aware that it does not have the power to force airlines to pay back, but of course it is responsible for enforcing the rules. I would have liked to have heard how the consumer is actually helped and how they are trying to persuade the airlines to make a refund. Finally, has there been any further negotiations at European level on adapting the Passenger Rights Directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u139	Mrs Van Bossuyt, over the past six months, the Passenger Rights Service of DGLV has registered 1,430 files. This may be formal complaints or requests for information on passenger rights, but most of the files received clearly relate to problems related to COOVID-19. However, only 333 files have been registered in the last two months. We can therefore now see a relative reduction in the number of complaints received per month. In most cases, refunds are still longer than the 7-day deadline provided for in the European Regulation. However, in the meantime, the European airlines operating from Belgium have all made payments to the passengers who choose to do so, but with delay. Of course, the FPS Mobility has no knowledge of the number and type of complaints that come to the ECC, as that is another service that is neither covered nor funded by the FPS Mobility. The complaints received by DGLV's Passenger Rights Service now mainly concern problems with the repayment period. As far as your third, fourth and fifth questions are concerned, the passenger must first try to contact the airline in order to obtain satisfaction. Since the beginning of the crisis, a space COVID-19 Passenger rights has been created on the website of the FPS Mobility. Passengers can be informed about their rights there. In many cases, however, we note that only the travel agency or ticket vendor is contacted. If the passenger is thus not satisfied within a reasonable period of time, a complaint may be lodged with the Passenger Rights Cell, which will then contact the air carrier. The air carrier must provide a reply within nine weeks. If the DGLV finds that an air carrier systematically scans the obligations under the European Regulation, the DGLV inspection services may initiate a sanction procedure, as provided for in the Law of 27 June 1937. As provided for in the recommendations of the European Commission, consideration shall also be given, where appropriate, to the good will and financial situation of the air carrier. DGLV's Passenger Rights Cell shall remain in constant contact with the air carriers to which it receives complaints and shall draw their attention to the rules in force and the possible sanctions associated with its non-compliance. For my part, I will not fail to remind them of their obligations with regard to passengers' rights at every meeting with the airlines' managers and to insist that a favourable outcome be achieved as soon as possible in the area of reimbursement. For example, the CEO of Brussels Airlines confirmed to me that the airline had made up for all its delays and that only unclear or disputed cases remain. During this conversation, the airline was very open about this problem. There is still the intention of several actors at the European level to review the European Regulation. This translates into concrete proposals from the Presidency of the Council of the European Union at the beginning of 2020. However, this work was stopped because of the start of the health crisis. Today it is unclear whether the Portuguese Presidency will reconsider the proposal for reform of the regulation. However, the very special circumstances caused by the pandemic have highlighted whether there is a need to make further changes to the regulation in the short term to deal with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u140	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is strange that you should reply to me in October that there are no more problems and that you are now saying that there are 1,430 pending files from the last six months. That's not right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u141	There are so many files registered, but asking for information is also a registration. Those aren't always complaints.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u142	You say there have been only 333 files in the last two months. Even if there are ten, these are ten people who are unjustly unable to get their money back on a journey they have often been saving for for a very long time. I certainly wouldn't minimize that, as I have the impression you do. The FPS Mobility has no direct connection to the ECC, according to you. It would be a sign of good governance if you heard that there is a particular authority that is also working on this issue, contact you or your services anyway to see if you can work together to ensure that people can assert their rights. With regard to the regulation and its possible reforms, I hope that you will be very attentive to it. I have heard that in the changes that have already been made, the rights of passengers to a refund and the conditions under which they can receive a refund would be greatly reduced. Hopefully you will pay the necessary attention to avoid this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u143	Question No 55014049C by Mr Rigot is transformed into a written question. Questions Nos 55014092C and 55014093C by Mr Scourneau are deferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u144	Mr President, I had a number of questions translated into written questions at the committee meeting on 10 February. Then the agreement is that we will receive the written prepared answers, but I have not yet received them. It is important, however, to honour these agreements; otherwise we will ask for them much less and our committee meetings will be even longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u145	That's true. Can you tell the secretariat the numbers of the questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u146	Were they in the report, Mr Van den Bergh? We'll look into that, but the intention is to send those answers quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u147	Normally, the answers are sent quickly to the members. If it cannot happen quickly, we will not have the questions converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u148	Mr President, Minister, in November 2019 I asked your predecessor an oral question on the position of Mr Fontinoy as chairman of the Board of Directors of SNCB. The subject of my question back then was a preliminary investigation into accepting bribes. Mr Fontinoy was then suspected of taking bribes when selling real estate owned by SNCB. Now we read that he is once again suspected of accepting bribes. This time it is not real estate, but didier Reynders' former right-hand man, who is now the European Commissioner for Justice, would have been paid to find a solution for the blocked millions of Prince Laurent in Libya. So another shady story. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Did you address Mr Fontinoy about this accusation? What was his reaction? Can Mr Fontinoy still function as chairman of the Board of Directors of SNCB, especially in these turbulent political times? Does this not cause any serious reputation damage to SNCB? When will the mandate of Mr Fontinoy as Chairman of the Management Board expire?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u149	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, I have also taken note of the news reports on this subject. As Minister, I would remind you, to the extent necessary in a democratic parliament, that a fundamental principle of our institutional structure is the separation of powers. Another fundamental principle is the presumption of innocence. So I will not comment on this until the judicial investigation has ended. As regards your question regarding the expiry date of the mandate of the chairman of the SNCB Board of Directors, I can inform you that the administrative mandate and the associated Presidency ended in October 2019. Since the government was then in current cases, no decision was taken on this and other expired administrative mandates. The decision on the implementation of the expired administrative mandates will be taken in the following weeks or months. For me, it's the fastest, the best.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic382x.u150	Mr President, Minister, I was somewhat expecting this answer.
