ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u2	By letter of 25 March 2021 I was informed by the Chairman of the Special Commission for the Follow-up of Missions Abroad of the letter of 23 March 2021 in which the Minister of Defence stated that Mr. Theo Francken, a member of the Commission, had tweeted confidential information communicated during the meeting of the Special Commission on 17 March 2021. By letter dated 25 March 2021, the Chair of the Special Committee responsible for the Follow-up of Foreign Shipments informed me of a letter dated 23 March 2021 in which the Minister of Defence stated that Mr Theo Francken, member of the Committee, has distributed confidential elements communicated in the Special Committee of 17 March 2021 through a tweet. By letter of 26 March 2021, I asked for the opinion of the Special Committee on the possible breach of the obligation of secrecy which would have occurred there. By letter dated 26 March 2021, I asked for the opinion of the Special Committee in which it would have taken place on this possible breach of the obligation of confidentiality. The special committee, after hearing Mr Franken, delivered the following opinion on 28 April 2021: "The majority of the members of the committee consider that the obligation of secrecy has been breached." The Special Committee, after hearing Mr Francken, delivered the following opinion on 28 April 2021: "Most members of the Committee consider that confidentiality was infringed'. After hearing Mr.Franken on 5 May 2021, I found, pursuant to Rule 67, No. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, that the obligation of secrecy had been breached in a chamber organ in which the obligation of secrecy is applicable, under the decision of the plenary meeting of 18 July 2019, to information obtained in the context of closed meetings. After hearing Mr Francken on 5 May 2021, I have, pursuant to Article 67, no. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, established that the obligation of professional secrecy was infringed in a body of the Chamber in which, pursuant to the decision of the plenary session of 18 July 2019, a confidentiality obligation applies with regard to the information obtained following the restricted meetings. Pursuant to Rule 67(2) of the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the principle of proportionality, I have decided: - that Mr. Francken lose, until the end of the regular session 2020-2021, the right to be a member and to attend the meetings of any body of the House to which the obligation of secrecy applies; - that during this period the member may not be replaced in the special committee responsible for monitoring missions abroad; - the member is subject to a 20% deduction on his or her parliamentary allowance for a period of three months. For the purposes of Article 67 No. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, I have decided that: - Mr Francken loses until the end of the ordinary session 2020-2021 the right to be a member of and attend meetings of any body of the Chamber to which the obligation of professional secrecy applies; - the member may not be replaced during the same period in the special committee responsible for the follow-up of the foreign consignments; - 20% shall be withheld from his parliamentary allowance for three months. Although the Rules of Procedure do not permit this in theory, I have taken into account the principle of proportionality in taking my decision, in accordance with the jurisprudence of the ECHR and our Constitutional Court. However, it is clear that the rules set out in the Rules are too strict and I will therefore table a proposal to include the principle of proportionality in rule 67 of the Rules of the House. Although the Rules of Procedure do not theoretically allow this to happen, I have taken account of the principle of proportionality when taking my decision, in accordance with the case law of the ECHR and of our Constitutional Court. However, it is clear that the rules contained in the Rules of Procedure are too strict and I will therefore put forward a proposal to register the principle of proportionality in Article 67 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u3	This proposal was adopted by the Scientific and Technological Questions Committee under Art. 76 of the Regulation. This proposal was adopted by the Advisory Committee on Scientific and Technological Questions under Art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u4	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1947/2) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1947/2) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u5	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u6	The assembly would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, the issue now under discussion concerns freedom of expression. I will dedicate my speech to Bart Van Reeth, whom I would call a herald of free speech, because he was. Many of you will not know him, and then it does not matter. I'm doing this for those who do know him because he lost the fight against the covid virus today. Resolutions, ladies and gentlemen, are always widely discussed here. Sometimes it's a bit like occupational therapy. Sometimes it sounds strange for the majority to ask questions to the government. One would expect it to be more direct. As a result of the opposition, it is sometimes an instrument to do what it cannot through legislation. Resolutions usually don't break a lot of pots. They give rise to extensive speeches here. I apologise already, because I am going to make an extensive speech. In this way, the authors of a resolution can earn their leave for the afterlife of political correctness. It's been granted to them. The title of the resolution before us suggests best:Artifical intelligence and algorithms and the impact on social media in the democratic process. That's a mouthful. That promises to be interesting. After all, this is about social media and social media, a phenomenon that many citizens are working on every day and which is the only way for many of them to express themselves to the public, including political, substantive and social problems. That is therefore particularly relevant. The title also talks about the democratic process. We are all here together as a result of democracy. We cannot be too careful about these principles. We know that social media influences a lot of people. There is even established interference through social media from abroad, social media platforms, giants, private companies that have acquired a factual monopoly on the exchange of thoughts and opinions. This is a recent phenomenon, and it is in itself excellent that we are giving it a wide-ranging consideration. The title gives the impression that today we will look at the endangered phenomenon of freedom of expression. I am particularly concerned, not only theoretically, about freedom of expression, but also about a number of trends in our society that are putting serious pressure on this freedom of expression. The introduction to the resolution states that it was decided to take as the first theme for the 55th legislature the subject of 'Artificial intelligence (and algorithms) and the impact on social media and the democratic process (the Facebook case, targeted disinformation, fake news etc.). Then there's a word, fake news, that sharpens my suspicions again. Allow me to go to the principle of free speech. Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights says: "Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression. This right includes the freedom to hold an opinion without interference, and to detect, receive and pass on information and ideas by all means and regardless of frontiers." This House is a parliament, and a parliament is the fruit of free speech. That free speech, good colleagues, is not a "good weather" right. It is all too easy to applaud this freedom of expression when it comes to opinions that are pleasing to us. That's not an achievement. The core of freedom of expression includes the right to hurt, the right to shock, the right to worry. That's not part of it, that's the core of it. Professor Vrielink writes about this: "The price of living in a democratic rule of law is that you can sometimes be hurt." I noticed a sentence in the report. I quote: 'He's 'expresses' our fellow Member 'that freedom of expression must cease where it begins to harm the other'. That sounds nice in itself, we know the principle of damage, which is also included in civil law. But it is dangerous when the concept of damage and the principle of damage are extended to feel offended. Colleagues, I've been concerned about this theme my whole life. In the summer of 2016, I, ignorantly, caused some media commotion. I wrote a piece on my blog while I was at a swimming pool in the Marche in Italy, in excellent conditions. I think it's necessary to draw down a text. It was clearly cucumber time, because it has brought about something. I asked how we should deal with the glorification of terrorism. At that time, in 2016, we were actually still in the aftermath of the attacks. That has gotten me quite a bit of banlichtsems, but no more than I want to restrict my own right to be critical, I don't want to do that for others either. Let there be no misunderstandings about that. What I wrote at the time was not always correctly reflected, not even in Parliament, but again, politics is what it is. One should be able to take some heat in the kitchen, especially when one writes a text in a sun-drenched Italian village. It was then about the extent to which we can and must act when it comes to glorifying terrorism, which I know is a form of violence. I was also accused of restricting freedom of expression by people who are about to adopt the resolution. I admit that I was looking for the limits and I think it is a good thing that this exercise is being done, because everyone knows that a right always has a limit. I did not have any legislative initiative followed. The reason for this is that I did not actually find sufficient wording for what I consider to be a reprehensible phenomenon effectively to be able to fight the glorification of terrorism with legislative initiatives without compromising freedom of expression through a grey zone. I agreed that the existing arsenal probably provides sufficient resources to deal with it and that we should not do any additional legislative work. Perhaps more work is needed to ensure compliance with the legislation, but that is not the subject for us as a legislative body that we should be dealing with in the first instance. I'm going to give that story to say that I'm not only very concerned about this theme, but I'm also willing to help you see and define the space of it. Furthermore, at least in my mind, the full realization remains that we must be very careful, no doubt despite good intentions, to do things which, in fact, amount to the limitation of that sacred good. After all, freedom of expression is in danger. The advantage of a word processor is that it can count how often a word occurs in a text, which saves a lot of handwork. This resolution contains the word fake news 214 times, with which I refer to the text of the resolution and the report for the sake of clarity. Moreover, the resolution has the particular characteristic that it does not have an explanation; it has disappeared. Since the report is bilingual, the number of 214 has to be divided by two, because I think fake news is as common in French as in Dutch, but then I get to 107 keywords per language, not very little. The hearings have therefore dealt with this very carefully. Fake news, we are all opposed to that. However, the question becomes a little more difficult when asked: what is fake news? When are we gonna talk fake news? When is something demonstrably wrong? There is no such concern on the part of the government, because I read in the coalition agreement: 'The government strengthens measures to combat disinformation and the spread of fake news that pose a real threat to democracy'. Without defining the term, the government says it will fight fake news stronger. I have to tell you that, when reading that passage in the coalition agreement, I became extra suspicious. I think all the alarm bells should start ringing. I don't know where they got the inspiration, but maybe it was Robespierre. You can read the Bulletin des lois of 10 June 1794. For the real revolutionaries among us that is 22 prairial an II, according to the calendar used during that period. It defined the mission of the Tribunal révolutionnaire and Article 4 says, I quote: 'Pour puur les ennemis du peuple', and I will now continue in Dutch, 'Who is seen as an enemy of the people', according to this legislation of 1794, 'those who have spread false news to divide or disturb the people'. The punishment was not less, namely a visit to the guillotine. We do not call that period the Terror for nothing. Following the pandemic law, Mr Ducarme mentioned the name of Montesquieu in one breath with the Tocqueville and Bouchez. That's the first time I've heard Bouchez quote together with the Tocqueville and Montesquieu. I just want to say that the parents of the Tocqueville were in prison and barely survived the guillotine because Robespierre was allowed to experience the razor through the neckline just the day before they were next. That's a good thing, because otherwise we wouldn't have been able to enjoy the Tocqueville. Mr De Caluwe has made a very erudite remark, which you can find in the report. Besides, that's not the only one he makes. I don't want to give that impression. I quote him: 'Fake news is a container concept that can accommodate anything that is not also punishable'. I fully agree with that. That is a particularly dangerous concept that apparently did not only pay off in the period of Robespierre. I repeat, "those who have spread false news." Ladies and gentlemen, if we can all look so honestly into our own minds, this is a House and anyone who will read today's report tomorrow, and not just from this debate, but from the whole day, or from last week, will undoubtedly have to acknowledge that there is a desire to be creative about the truth here, if only to make a political point, a truth which, certainly in politics, is less incontrovertible than theoreticists sometimes claim. Yesterday we commemorated the 200th anniversary of Napoleon's death. That name should really be mentioned here when we talk about fake news, because he was a specialist in it. Napoleon was not only a commanding officer, he was also someone who sent his correspondents to Paris immediately after every battle to report immediately in his newspapers on the auspicious performances that had sometimes taken place quite differently in practice. He had painters for that, too. Jacques-Louis David portrayed him in heroic poses. In the painting "Napoleon crosses the Alps," David said, "I would like to paint you, but you must come and pose." To which Napoleon replied: "That is not necessary, no one will care when a portrait of a great man is not similar." Even Napoleon's paintings are covered by the word "fake news." We didn't find out until later. Sometimes people fall for fake news. Sometimes the opposite happens. Galileo Galilei was someone who at that time was condemned by the entire municipality for spreading fake news. That's where the reverse happened. We saw afterwards that this wasn't fake news. Should Galilei have been on Twitter then, I think he would have been canceled for proclamation of fake news. I think we should be careful to give the impression that somewhere when we go outside of the positive sciences, and even then, there would be an agency that can make that distinction in an objective way, let alone that we would somehow involve the government. A second phenomenon is, of course, that of hate messages, hate speech. Hate evokes all of us. Fortunately, we have the Constitutional Court which completes our legislation on inciting hatred by saying that this must be done with a special purpose. For hatred, ladies and gentlemen, is a very subjective and vague concept which, in practice, must be judged by a judge of judgment. Violence seems pretty clear to me, but still. Hate is from a distinctly different statute. Besides, I'd like to go to history, if you don't mind. Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights does not speak of hatred. In 1966 we were given the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. For the first time, the word "hate" is something that needs to be curbed through treaties and legislation. Good friends, when you look at the conclusion of that treaty, you will find that it came under the influence of the communist countries, which they had already tried in 1946 with the Universal Declaration. It was the Eastern bloc that wanted at all costs to include the curbing of hatred in the treaties. On Article 20 and the vote on it, it was the Communist countries that voted in favour together with countries such as Saudi Arabia and so on. The countries that have lost it were the United States, Great Britain, New Zealand, Canada, the Netherlands and Japan. Belgium also voted against it, because in 1966 the free West still stood for the idea of the free West and stood for the idea of freedom of expression. So when we see today that fighting hatred, but above all everything that is qualified under hatred, comes to the fore, I must congratulate the Communists of 1946 and 1966, that is to say, the Eastern bloc. After all, they have won the plea. The resistance of the West is apparently broken in that respect. However, the right to insult is, of course, not equal to the right not to be offended. Leo Neels writes about this: "The freedom of opinion threatens to change into the freedom of the violated feelings." May I give an example of two people from my area, who have recently been banned from Facebook for seven days? One had written after the storm of the Capitol: "They are strange boys, these Americans." Apparently, the algorithm has never read a book by Asterix and Obelix? Because with the lack of sense of humor that characterizes algorithms, it hasn't made that link. The other was banned from Facebook very recently because of the particularly hateful post: "The Suez Canal is again free. Dutchmen are still the most punishing sailors on the planet, to the regret of whom they envy." So far this hateful message, which, of course, implied that we are less punitive sailors than the Dutch. Perhaps that can be considered offensive; at least that was the case for the algorithm. A name that regularly pops up when it comes to the whole idea of hate news, even a few weeks ago in Parliament, is none other than Marc Van Ranst. He's even looking up the media to report that he's a huge victim of hate messages. Ladies and gentlemen, this is sometimes a firm call for violence, for physical threats. Marc Van Ranst is absolutely right not only to oppose this, but also to take legal action. Under no circumstances can a person be threatened in his physical integrity. Under the heading of hatred, we are given a number of examples, such as one which relates Mr Van Ranst to Hitler. That is absolutely unpleasant, but it is bizarre that he regularly connects others with Nazism, neo-Nazism or World War II. I don't want to take away that right either, just to be clear. I would just like to point out that the plea against violence on social media, which we fully support, is a step along the lines of what is laid down in the legislation today and can, according to the Constitutional Court, be interpreted very strictly as inciting hatred with malicious intentions. In the messy world of social media, of course, I am very quickly offended by a reproach industry, I am kicked on the toes, I am flooded with hatred, as if the debate leaves no room for that. I list a few names of people who, I believe, should be careful to be removed from Facebook today. For example, Marcus Tullius Cicero, whose texts we study at school, said about Piso, a man from Syria "the Syrian beast with the skin color of slaves, useless cattle, piece of rotten meat, pig with hairy jaws and dirty teeth, with your shameful manner of speaking." You will agree with me that he should be removed from the social media.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u8	Madam President, I will respond to a number of points during my speech, but I still wanted to point out, Mr De Roover, a point of your history and your rather complete historical description. You quote Galileo, Cicero, etc., which would now, perhaps, be removed from Facebook or Twitter, but it is precisely the heart of the issue. Today, who decides who is removed from Facebook or Twitter? It's Facebook or Twitter! These are these private multinationals, these "giants," as you yourself have called them. It is they who decide who remains and what accounts are blocked. They are the ones who, in your example, would decide whether Cicero and Galilee can stay. And that is precisely what we do not want! That is the heart of the problem. It would have been interesting for you to attend all the debates and hearings. We are at the heart of the debate, and that is exactly what we want to fight: we do not want to leave our hands free to these digital giants to decide who can say what on social networks, so that they are a public and democratic entity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u9	Mr Vanden Burre, thank you for your statement and I will come back to it later because I feel that I am getting an ally. So it may well be that this resolution is unexpectedly rejected. I had arrived at Schopenhauer. Don't worry, if you jump from Cicero straight to Schopenhauer, you'll go through history at a steady pace. He didn't speak for his good colleague Georg Friedrich Hegel. He wrote in a long tweet: "Hegel was a weak, tasteless, nauseating, illiterate charlatan. By joining senseless mazes of words, previously known only in madhouses, he reached the pinnacle of courage in serving nonsense." I don't know what Schopenhauer is allowed to do in social media. I'll jump straight to today. You all know Tom Lanoye, who recently wrote in the newspaper: "by deliberately looking out of their mouths looking professionally like Louis Verbeeck, Gaston Durnez or Jos Ghysen, and a few other, thank God all forgotten, abrasive hinges. Their prose didn't even strike me as melancholy, it was formless actorry, sprung from the pen of immortal fibers, patronizing, shitty and unsatisfied, smelling of starch, wandering at incense from the late evening mass and grape juice from the Sarma, marinated in rural satininess and embalmed by the forced cosiness that in advance took refuge in drooping small words that make us, Flames, for centuries Champion Self-Principers." End of the tweet. Lanoye commits to using more than 240 characters. I must tell you that this is very sharp, but of course they are beautiful sentences. They'll only be used against you. He also attacked Joël De Ceulaer and I spare you the way he did. When he writes about Joël De Ceulaer: "His charm is nonexistent, his rhetoric is too dull, his self-serving too transparent and his self-esteem too insurmountable," what does someone who is less gifted in the language write? Such a person writes: "Joel De Ceulaer is an arrogant bastard and I vomit whenever I see his name, typical of such a frustrated Kempian sandboxer." That is less talented than Mr Lanoye, and so we are inclined to delete it. That's what we call hate messages. So it is not just a question of fighting hatred, we are even threatening to go to a question of fighting the lack of talent. Anyone who is able to bring hate with quality gets literary prizes, whoever does it from a workman's pants, is cut off from the social media.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u10	Mr De Roover, I myself am very much in favour of free speech. I wrote an opinion piece on that in De Standaard not so long ago. In that I have the right to defend insult. You must read carefully what this resolution is about. I listen with great interest to your fascinating speech, but your speech is actually largely beside the issue. That's what I'm trying to tell you. The purpose of this resolution is to go through everything that is illegal in written publication and to be consistent in it, including the online world and online publications. The difficulty with these online publications is that there are a number of giants, such as technology giants such as Facebook, Twitter, who are not really clear whether they are authorised to intervene and who authorizes them to do so. Isn't it better to go there to a regulatory framework? So these are cases that are already criminal. Are the examples you mention, such as Mr Lanoye's books, punishable? They're not. So that problem will not arise. What is punishable and what sometimes appears on social media, but is not addressed there, or randomly with much improvisation and without a regulatory framework, are the things we all know, such as discrimination, child pornography, terrorist propaganda and hate messages. The examples are listed in the resolution. It is then a question of checking whether it is manifestly illegal publications. So there will always be an appreciation whether or not a hate message is illegal, because a hate message can be illegal. Inciting violence, for example, is illegal. In other words, you are looking for everything behind the resolution that is not really in it. I'm not even saying you're trying to figure out what it doesn't mean. I can even agree with 90% of your speech, but it is largely in addition to the issue. It is only logic itself that one tries to find a mechanism to prohibit what is offline, also online. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u11	Mr De Roover, I am very interested in listening. In itself you mention very interesting quotes. You have also given the example of the Suez Canal in committee. Today you give the example of the "weird boys." I'm a big fan of Asterix, so I know that quote: "Rare boys, those Romans." If something like that is removed, I am indeed asking myself why it is happening. That is a big question we are asking ourselves, just like you, and we want to be more clear about the reasons on which action is taken. You're right there's probably algorithms behind that. I also read the text of your party colleague Geert Bourgeois, who also quotes those algorithms. He calls that a very bad evolution and says that we must do something about it. What is your proposal to do about this? Either we do something and say to Facebook and other giants that they are allowed to draw up rules of the game, but that they must at least provide people with clarity and information on why they apply these rules, or we do nothing and we continue to ask ourselves why some posts disappear from social media. Finally, you have been very concerned about the container concept fake news. Indeed, this is very often mentioned in the resolution because it has been discussed very often in the many hearings we have held for a whole year. In the requests themselves, however, the term fake news is zero times, just because the experts have said that fake news is a container concept. There is a great deal to be said about this, but in essence there is very little that can be said about it, otherwise it will be a slippery slope. I therefore agree with you on this point. I see a lot happening under the term fake news, but it is very difficult to intervene legally. That was just the message we received over the past year. In the requests themselves, therefore, we are not talking about fake news. The term isn't even in it. I thought you'd spread a little fake news in that area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u12	Thank you, colleagues. We are celebrating freedom of expression here, but you will help me get to the resolution itself. I'd like to respond immediately to what was just said. May I establish that there is an evolution? I have heard Mr Verduyckt, I have quoted Mr De Caluwe. Can I say that within the majority there has been an evolution since the government agreement was approved? Then I would like to applaud that very much. I have just said what is in the coalition agreement and that combating fake news is explicitly in it. But there's always more joy for a returned sheep. So I hope the realization does indeed sound that the government there is the best to take its hands off. If that is the reason why you have been reluctant to take that word back, then you can see how useful a debate can be. Why do I think this is a bad resolution? As I said, research into algorithms is a good thing. There are undoubtedly many good sides to algorithms. But there's at least one very bad side to it: an algorithm has no sense of humor. Always pay attention to things that don't have a sense of humor. So also pay attention with algorithms, especially when they decide what is allowed and what is not allowed. I read the resolution which calls on the federal government to make every request to the European Union. It's kind of like a cascade. The resolution "calls for the large online platforms to be obliged to set up a system for moderating online content as part of an efficient complaint resolution mechanism." So here we are talking about obliging a system of moderating, which sounds very sympathetic. But a system of moderating means: deleting unwilling messages. I quote further: "...so that the online platforms are placed on their responsibilities in relation to the treatment of apparently illegal and criminal content." Who is the one who, according to this resolution, is being used to determine what is apparently criminal and illegal? Not the judge I was talking about earlier. A judge of judgment must, within the narrow demarcation of the law, make such a careful assessment by the Constitutional Court, because the judge of judgment knows how dangerous it is to make a judgment on this matter. This is how it happens for offline publications: nothing is deleted offline, except after a judge intervenes. Now, with this resolution, we are getting the system that is being asked of the government to outsource its compliance to social media companies. That is what the motion for a resolution says. The judge no longer judges, but the social media companies have to moderate. If social media companies do not do so, they will be punished. "An enforcement system is provided in relation to the online platforms that systematically and repeatedly neglect their obligation to moderate online content," says the requests. So if they do not act enough, if they do not delete what should be deleted, they will be punished. This means that your resolution means that social media companies must assess what is appropriate or not. It is best for them to be extra strict, otherwise they will be fined. Mildness in the assessment of social media messages threatens to cost them money. That is the point: the proper assessment is replaced by a judge. Surely you don't believe that the social media companies will hire people to read and compare every message in every language worldwide with some Asterix and Obelix album to find out if it's offensive or some kind of reference? No, they automate that in their algorithms, with all the consequences. On that point, we see your good intentions, which I do not question, turning into pavement right into hell of restricting freedom of expression. That's what this is about. I am not saying that you want to do that; I am saying that you are setting in motion a mechanism in which you replace the normal rule of law where a judge judges with a system where you subcontract it to a truth police in the form of monopoly companies, private companies that seem to be unable to do the job that the government can't do. That is the point in your resolution that I am making here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u13	Mr De Roover, we are at the heart of the debate. Your criticism of the text seems to me to be quite different from what you expressed in the Opinion Committee. On this specific point, what are we asking? From the moment that reports are issued on social networks by what we call trusted flaggers – NGOs, recognized groups, identified bloggers, institutions, citizens, etc. –, platforms must respond. If they do not do so, they must justify the reason for maintaining the messages in question. If certain grounds are unlawful, in the first sense of the word – that is, as you and other colleagues have indicated – calls for hatred and physical violence – this will have to be brought before the courts. Nevertheless, you know, like me, that several behaviours in a public debate are not illegal, while requiring moderation. It's also going offline. You remind us that anything that is outside the internet must also be on-line. If you participate in Terzake or respond to an interview in a newspaper, or if you appear in an advertisement taken from a media outlet, the content remains subject to the rules issued by the CSA or the Journalistic Code of Ethics that determine what you can say to Terzake, Zevende Dag or in the written press. You can't say anything you want. In any case, a journalist will then question certain points. In short, what is valid for the off-line public debate is not for the internet: it is the Far West. Or, if regulation is exercised, it is done by platforms. It is therefore the digital giants who decide; and this is not going either, of course. This is what we want to put in place here, in connection with what is being done at European level with the Digital Services Act (DSA). It is the very nature of the mechanism that is desired here. It is absolutely not a censoring mechanism. That is why I wanted to intervene. It is really a moderation mechanism, where platforms are actually forced to respond; as in everything that happens offline, ladies and gentlemen. It is the same type of moderation that exists. I wanted to clarify this in order to make a parallel with what is possible in the offline public debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u14	I am a polite boy and have been doubting to interrupt you for a long time, Mr De Roover, but you have said so much in the meantime which is not right, that I feel obliged to take the floor. In fact, I will come back to a number of points in my speech on the motion for a resolution. You started by telling me what Twitter looked like two thousand years ago. Thank you for that, because I missed that chapter at the time. I do not blame you for reading the motion for a resolution differently from what it is intended to be. You have never taken part in the hearings because you are neither a member of the advisory committee. I have no doubt that you have reviewed the hearings or read the reports, but that does not give you all the nuances. The aim of the motion for a resolution is to regulate freedom of expression. You have just noted that freedom of expression is not unlimited, that my freedom ends where yours begins and that one can slip into insulting the other. Where you get that from, I don't know, because insulting has nothing to do with taking away someone's freedom. The aim of the motion for a resolution is, as a number of colleagues have already mentioned, to create greater transparency. Do you think it is normal, Mr De Roover, that someone who is a supporter of the PVDA, for example, should only see messages from the PVDA and not see your critical voice on social media in the debate? That's how it works today: social media determines what the voter of the PVDA sees. This also applies, for example, to the anti-vax movement in the current corona crisis. An antivaxer only sees antivax messages. That is precisely why we are calling for transparency in the proposal. This is also an important element for us to get out of the filter bubble or fabulous trap. It is with the greatest respect for freedom of expression that we are presenting this motion for a resolution. You also mentioned fake news a number of times and referred to the coalition agreement. By the way, the fact that you read 107 or 214 fake news in the report does not relate to the text of the proposal itself, but to the hearings. We have received a great deal of useful information there. For example, experts have warned us that fake news is a container concept. We also heard how the term can be used and what role artificial intelligence plays in this respect. It is truly the merit of the advisory committee that hearings on the subject were held in Parliament for more than a year, which gave us not only more insight into the phenomenon, but also into the challenges and problems we face.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u15	Mr de Caluwe, for me, an interruption in a proper way in a debate is not an expression of rudeness. You are undoubtedly a polite person, and that was not contradicted by your interruption in the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we will not vote for the motion for a resolution for the reasons I have indicated does not mean that every part of the proposal is inconvenient. On the contrary, if the work had been limited to the operation of algorithms, you would undoubtedly have found an ally in my group. For example, you pointed out that a trailer of the PVDA only sees PVDA messages. Honestly, I seem to be a supporter of the PVDA, because I regularly see PVDA messages or the algorithms don't work well with me. All madness on a stick, many years ago I indicated that through the social media, which give the impression that we are joining the world, in our own bubble that word has become a different meaning in the meantime, we hear less different opinions than in an average brown café. The algorithms work in such a way that someone through his circle of friends, who tends to resemble himself or herself, who tends to come into an environment in which the truth is repeated so much that he or she believes that there is no question of it anymore. That's interesting. That's what you should have focused on. I'm not saying it's not in the text. I would point out that you should have limited yourself to that. Perhaps that would have given the committee's mandate more legitimacy. Moreover, the work would also have been more interesting. Under the guise of your legitimate concerns, there is still hope of being naive. I hope you can see that. You indicate 107 times that this has given you certain insights. I am very glad that this is the case. I've been reading the reports. They are absolutely interesting, interesting and worth reading. Make no mistake, should I have given you another impression. You say that I read the motion for a resolution differently from what it is intended to be. That's not right. I read the text, as it says. I don't know what you mean. You can do that again in a moment. However, I prefer to read a motion for a resolution as written and not as intended. That is what remains and what needs to be voted on. Mr Vanden Burre, we need to respond to signals. I don't like that part too much. It's gonna get us into some kind of snitching system. One should sue other people, not in court, as is the case in a rule of law, but in a company of social media. You just said it yourself. The social media company decides. The proposal even stipulates that, if the social media company does not act sufficiently repressively, it will be possible to correct that nail again through the court. I can basically live with that part. That's what courts are for. Courts are meant to judge whether laws are broken. You argue that, in order not to overwhelm courts, you want the social media companies to do the job first. You will then have to realise that if someone is excluded from the social media because of a statement that according to that social media is wrong, because someone else has made that social media aware of the political non-correct statement, we will end up in a system for which I really want to warn, because freedom of expression is being compromised. But you seem to be refusing to see that mechanism. I come to my conclusion, Mr De Caluwe. Firstly, if the motion for a resolution had been limited to the operation and sometimes the damaging functioning of algorithms, you would have remained in a serious situation and would have had great value. Secondly, what is reprehensible is not equal to what is punishable. A court of law will make these nuances easier than a social media company. That wasn't established for that. I don't trust that social media company. Thirdly, outsourcing a core task of the government to address people who violate laws cannot be outsourced to, for example, Twitter, Facebook or Instagram. They cannot be used as truth police, what is actually happening here. You often refer to the philosophy of the Digital Services Act, which is in Europe and on which I am particularly concerned. I see a manifest contradiction with our Article 25 of the Constitution, which has deliberately introduced a cascade system: the judge will not target the publisher or the printer when the author is known. That principle has been registered for a very good reason, namely because publishers and printers would not refuse to publish a work for fear that they might otherwise end up in prison. What was decided in 1830? The writer must take full responsibility and that goes for Facebook and Twitter as well. They are no different than printers, they are no different from those who delivered the message. According to Article 25 of the Constitution, if the person who posts a Facebook message is known, that cascade system will never address the publisher. I also think that the grey area in which we shift from what is curbed by the law and from what becomes hate crimes and insults is very counterproductive. May I remind you, for example, that there was anti-hate legislation in the Weimar Republic, but it did not help. That is the least that history has taught us in this respect. On the contrary, there is a danger of hunting a phenomenon underground, and you know that there is a lot of ground in the digital world.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u16	Mr De Roover, I would like to interrupt because I want to highlight one important point. You say that in this mechanism, it is the platforms that will decide what remains or not. That's not true. That's not what we want. You may have understood it that way and it is your right, since we are in law and its interpretations, but it is absolutely not that system that we are considering. It is a reporting system, and the platform must be justified. She's not the one who decides. We ask that it be justified. As I was telling you, in off-line reality, it's the same thing. Today, let's imagine that you're sending a carte blanche to De Tijd or to the Standaard, and that you're randomly headlined: "All Ecolos are children's eaters." It's not illegal to say it, but we can still conceptually say it's not true. I don't think the Standaard will publish your carte blanche with this title. On the other hand, they will have to justify why they won't. It is exactly the same kind of mechanism that we want to put in place. Everything that happens off line for the public debate must also happen on line. My example is a little exaggerated but I think it is an example of what I wanted to demonstrate here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u17	Mr De Roover, you compare Twitter, and social networks in general, to simple media, to simple means of communication. But this reasoning is wrong. Why? Because they're not media like the others. They are algorithm-based instruments, which are themselves designed on the principle of the economy of attention. This means that the user's attention is required in a very defined part of a second. So they will select the information that creates the buzz. We know that the buzz is created by the most emotional, the most extremist, the most hateful, the most discriminatory discourses. They will not only select the discourses or means of expression they want to put forward to consolidate their economic model, but also they will profile. This means that they will target the people they want to reach. This system is therefore not comparable to that of the media. When you want to learn and watch a TV channel, or a TV newspaper, you are voluntary. You're a candidate for this information. When you buy a newspaper, you read De Morgen, Het Laatste Nieuws or Le Soir or La Libre Belgique, you choose to speak to the media and not the other way around. You therefore exercise your freedom to learn, your freedom to inquire. Here, the social networks you are talking about are not media in the strict sense but rather are sometimes propaganda instruments for very specific purposes. One of the aims of this resolution, because there are many of them, is to make the law coincide with freedom of expression. But freedom of expression is obviously conditional on the freedom of non-discrimination with the possibility offered by the resolution "to compel large platforms to put in place a system of moderation of online content under an effective complaints mechanism, so as to insist on the responsibility of platforms for the treatment of manifestly illegal and punishable content while respecting freedom of expression". I would add that point 1(b) of the resolution: "to provide for an obligation on the part of these major platforms to be able to attest to their good practices of moderation by publishing transparency reports every six months, mentioning on the one hand the theoretical way in which moderation is carried out and, on the other hand, the responses to complaints made by users and the effects of the moderating practice." This means, therefore, that this resolution does not mean that the judge should be replaced and that the platforms should not be given the right to do what they want when they want, since they will have the objective of responding to the law and of putting in place instruments of moderation and reporting on those instruments. From the moment the user of social networks finds that he has been moderated in an abusive way, he will obviously also have the possibility of a remedy, which does not exist today since social networks moderate or censor when they want to, who they want, when they want and what they want. No one has the opportunity so far to be able to counter this all-powerful censorship of social networks. Rather, the resolution seeks the opposite, as my colleagues in the majority have pointed out, that is to say, to ensure transparency. I continue to think, and I will come back to that in a few minutes' time, that, contrary to what you say, this resolution is an additional instrument to guarantee the freedom of expression and the right of appeal of those whose freedom of expression could be violated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u18	I repeat, the section on the functioning of the algorithms is fascinating. The word moderating is something that really bothers me in your text. It certainly bothers me, because it is moderated on the basis of mechanisms which in practice mean that social media must be spreaders of socially desirable messages. That's the mechanism you're setting in motion. Mr Vanden Burre, your comparison with newspapers is not true, because there is a factual monopoly here. What should the person who can no longer use Facebook do? For most users, this is a unique and monopolising means of interfering in the social debate. Fortunately, there are several newspapers, there is a competition mechanism there. This competition mechanism does not exist in this world. On the contrary, and then I come not only to my criticism but also to a few suggestions. The government can and should, and this is in this, never act as guardian of the truth. Parents, teachers, journalists, scientists, pastors for all I care, those are the ones who have to raise to proper language, to correct debate techniques and to a little civilisation. However, it is absolutely essential for the government to stay out of this. This is the beginning of a totalitarian regime, from the moment the debate is moderated through the government. That is why we must do the opposite of what is essential here. We must ban social media from removing messages when there is no judicial ruling. That's the opposite of what you're doing. Only those judges can make that judgment. We must oblige these social media, given the actual monopoly position they hold, to ensure a universal service. This means that as a private company they do not have the right to restrict users in the use of that platform for venting opinions. Colleagues, I will conclude my speech. You've been waiting a long time for that, I suspect. In 1665 now I go back into history; I see you cramping. Francis van den Enden wrote his Free Political Stellings. Not in modern Dutch, because since then our speech art, our grammar, has been regularly adapted. He was the teacher of Spinoza. He was an Antwerpian, fairly disappeared and forgotten in history. He was a herald of free speech, and that didn't work out for him. In November 1674, he ran into the Sun King's lamp. He left him hanging on the noose for majesty desecration. The man was 72 years old. They had to take him there on a palanquin. But fortunately his student, Spinoza, has been able to spread the idea of free speech. That is why I would like to warn you, in this spirit, by means of the Digital Services Act, because that is what legislation is about, in this case European legislation, not to push you in the direction of encouraging social media giants to block Cicero, Socrates, Schopenhauer, Lanoye, Galilei, or, for my part, Napoleon's Twitter account or to delete them from Facebook. This century, ladies and gentlemen, which has been going on for 21 years, has become a century of long toes, a century in which the government, which is apparently once separated from the church, is today evolving into a church. By way of a detour, it encourages the social media giants to act as Guardian within the faith of social and political correctness. Let us not go along with this nonsense that threatens to suffocate the real free word. As far as I'm concerned, the choice is crucial, the choice between Voltaire or Robespierre. In the spirit of Voltaire, I would like to pay tribute to the great and uncensorable bakkes of Bart Van Reeth, who today has technically fallen silent, but hopefully will continue to inspire me and many others not to be silenced, especially by a government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u19	Madam President, this subject unleashes political passions – I say this in a positive way – but is above all at the heart of a great deal of discussion and debate on the future of our democracy. I would like to pay tribute to the quality of the work that has been done for more than a year. The theme of the debate was chosen unanimously. The impact of algorithms, social networks, digital platforms on the future of democracy is clearly a huge and very large, and sometimes very cruel, topical issue. For more than a year, we organised hearings for some 20 people: European academic experts, elected representatives from other countries, notably from France and Germany, and European representatives. The exchanges were of great quality because this debate is at the heart of a great deal of concern, whether it is about freedom of expression, the fight against hate speech, the fight against discrimination, the fundamental issues in terms of education, media education, message education, the challenges in terms of the potential manipulation of elections. I must not recall the scandal around Facebook or Cambridge Analytica. We know how important these are. My group and I welcome the fact that this debate has been made possible. It is clearly not finished, but it has been possible here in the House for over a year and it is important. I am not going back to history, as Mr De Roover did - it was interesting, even though in some respects he was talking about something other than the resolution! I will also quote some people, but I will focus on those who are being interviewed; it seems to me to be about work. I will take up a few passages which seem very revealing to me of the work that we have wanted to do and the problems that arise today. I will start with a hearing that does not happen every day in the Federal Parliament, in Belgium in particular. The boss of Facebook - not global, you would have noticed - responsible for public policies for Benelux and the Nordic countries, Mr Martin Ruby was auditioned and explained to us a whole series of interesting and equally challenging things. He has redone the chronology since the last U.S. elections, not the ones we've just lived through, but the ones in 2016, when Facebook was at the heart of the Cambridge Analytica scandal. It is interesting to give some figures. He told us that since 2016, Facebook has been associated with about 200 elections around the world and that in Belgium, Facebook was one of the first times most active in the 2018 communal elections. I quote what was said at the hearings and which appears in the report: "We can confirm that 15 profiles were removed in the course of these elections for participating in a wave of coordinated inauthentic behaviour. These facts were reported rigorously at the time by an article in the newspaper De Tijd dated October 11, 2018." Subsequently, I asked what actually led to the removal of these profiles and what the profiles were. We never had an answer. Facebook has made it clear that revealing it is contrary to its privacy policy. Of course, that's not right! This runs counter to everything we have at the democratic level on transparency. It is precisely these types of behaviour that we want to avoid and that took place during elections in Belgium in 2018. It is according to the rules of Facebook that this happens, without any transparency. Indeed, at this stage, at least according to the rules in force in 2018, they cover themselves not to transmit the information. Of course, we are in a situation of confiscation of democratic transparency by a digital giant, a multinational, also monopolistic, I agree with you on this point, which is contrary to any democratic rule of public transparency. That is precisely what we wish to avoid. In addition, he later spoke of "the evolution of these non-authentic coordinated behaviors". I quote because there is such a lack of transparency that this becomes incomprehensible. I had cited a more recent example, namely the fact that Donald Trump's account - I will not repeat how much he is a political figure I reject from every point of view - was refused by Facebook for a period of six months. Once again, it is not right! It is not normal for this decision to be made by a multinational, a private digital giant. Another element that we consider to be truly fundamental and at the heart of this debate is, as many of us have pointed out, the fight against hate speech and reports of discrimination. According to the Unia report, messages and hate crimes increased by 13% in one year between 2018 and 2019. Unfortunately, this has continued to increase as a result of the various confinements, as has often been denounced in this House through a series of inquiries. Similarly, there has also been an increase in false information related to confinements and even commercial advertising around the coronavirus. In particular, I wanted to focus on hate speech, discriminating discourse, the number of which has greatly increased. The third person I wanted to quote in connection with the hearings is Mr Bruno Schröder, who works at Microsoft in Belgium. He reminded us - I am going to make a slight leap in history - that in fact, as soon as, in history, different media have been used to broadcast news, whether false or not - whether it is printing, radio, television or, more recently, social networks and the Internet - this phenomenon went hand in hand with appropriation of the codes of production of truth. For him, who is one of the technical directors of Microsoft in Belgium, and also an academic in Belgium, this is not a technological problem, but he insists precisely on media education, on education to receive messages on online platforms. According to him, it is in fact a new channel, whose codes have not been incorporated into society, and a modification of the institutions, associated with what it is constructed as being true. As has been said, the algorithms and community of everyone on social networks make one feel like one is in a truth that may not be THE truth or that does not concern the entire population. However, through the algorithms, we are immersed in it. We therefore insist in the resolution on the need to launch research and development projects on the subject in order to better understand algorithms and, above all, to allow for greater transparency. There is also the issue of the protection of minors in relation to this decoding and these publications, videos, etc. on platforms, on social networks. For us, the protection of minors, especially those under the age of 16 - this has been the subject of a very intense discussion - is really fundamental. Today, we can have a Facebook account from 13 years old. Thus, at this age, unwanted publications are likely to be received financed, for example, by brands, political parties or organizations that sometimes have laudable objectives and sometimes not. We therefore believe that under the age of 16, we are not always equipped to receive all these messages. Special protection should therefore be provided for the control of microtargeting. I would like to quote Pr. Picone from the VUB who, speaking of algorithms, explained to us that they are commercial, as was said by our colleague, Mr Christophe Lacroix. It is obviously commercial companies, such as Facebook or all digital giants, that develop algorithms to make us consume more, whether they are brands, "usual" consumption, politics, content or ideas. In any case, it is about consumption. In fact, political parties like brands pay to broadcast videos, messages. We are therefore in line with a completely commercial logic. It is these algorithms that make such advertising more projected because the issuer will have paid more. In other words, if you pay more, you're more projected on the digital platform, which is quite challenging. Pr. Picone also reminded us that the diversity of algorithms had been researched in different universities and that he was a member of an expert group. It was Mr. De Croo, at the time, in charge of the Digital Agenda which had dealt with these issues. The last speaker I wanted to mention and who raised a real difficulty is Commissioner Alain Luypaert, who runs the Internet Referral Unit – the unit within the federal police that is responsible for tracking illegal and problematic online content. He explained to us that his team regularly faced two problems related to fake news, an expression that he himself used during his hearing in committee – so that's one of the 110 or 115 occurrences of this speech that you have identified. First of all, with regard to classical conspiracy theories, it is extremely difficult to act, for lack of a legal basis defining what a fake news is. In addition, it identified commercial-type fake news, which consists of using rumours and scandals for mercantile purposes, for example by using shocking content clicks for the purpose of selling certain products. In this sense, he had mentioned the example of sites on which articles supposed to cure the public of coronavirus were sold. The announcement was, of course, completely crazy, but people unfortunately let themselves be fooled and paid to receive liquid doses which, in reality, had nothing to do with the fight against the virus. He explained that, as of 31 January, 575 content had been discovered and reported to the platforms and that 297 content had been removed. In the first wave, the number of scams reported was 449, 240 of which were removed. What problem did the police officer highlight? The absence of a legal basis for action. As a result, the federal police had to systematically contact Facebook in Ireland to determine whether or not to remove such content and therefore had to negotiate on a case-by-case basis. It was therefore decided in a completely discretionary manner. The lack of a European legal basis is obviously problematic. Dealing with digital giants in this way does not match our way of thinking. The requests in our resolution relate to the four issues that I wanted to put forward, as well as to others. There is a need to advocate at European level, in conjunction with the Digital Services Act, to enhance the transparency and transparency of algorithms, and to show how they work today. There is a very high degree of opacity, for commercial purposes, in this regard. This transparency must be strengthened in order to combat manifestly illegal and punishable content and to force platforms to respond and to take responsibility. Platforms don't have to decide. I think I said it enough. For us, it's really important. At the Belgian level, there are also things to do for the well-being of users. This is included in our second request. We talked about the fight against hate speech. A draft will also be carried out by the Minister of Justice Van Quickenborne and the Secretary of State Schlitz to amend the Constitution, in its article 150. There is also a need to strengthen the means of justice and training related to crime, cyber-harassment and other matters. I would remind you that we are not trying to define what a fake news is. We concluded that there is no legal definition. We do not mention this in the recommendation. But, for us, it is essential that rules exist to deploy and encourage freedom of expression and democratic debate at best, and I will conclude by that. These rules exist outside the platforms, off line. Codes, moderations are also needed. After that, justice has to do its job. There is no question that platforms should replace a judge. That is absolutely not what we are proposing. Today, de facto, it is the Far West on platforms and social networks. We want to put an end to it. We want rules, just as there are rules when we debate here, or in traditional media that are not online, etc. This is important for us, as well as fighting against opacity around algorithms, and their commercial purposes, which ultimately divert political ideas for commercial purposes. You share that concern, I think. For us, democracy and freedom of expression can only emerge from such a resolution. That is why we will, of course, support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u20	Madam President, I thank you for giving me the floor in this very interesting discussion, even though the arguments of each one - sometimes some developed with a form of syllogism - are nevertheless persuasive and are the subject of a lively debate which is the subject of this House of representatives where the different opinions can be expressed. Colleagues, social networks are an incredible space of freedom of expression - it is true - that allows simple citizens to make themselves heard, to come together to defend together the often just causes, the convictions that they have deeply pinned to the heart. The Arab Spring was carried by legitimate demands through social networks. If, today, China's internet lock, it is because it has understood its libertarian potential. On the other hand, the economic model of social networks is not based on reason. It is not based on a Voltairian concept and, again, one can say again about Voltaire, the great apostle of tolerance and freedom of expression. He often signed many of his letters with the phrase "Let's crush the infamous! "" For him, the infamous, it was the Catholic party of the time or at least the Catholics of the time. His phrases about the Jesuits were abominable. So let us relativize what Voltaire said and stop those comparisons that are syllogism on the part of the interlocutor who spoke them! Yes, the economic model of social networks is not based on reason, on seriousness, on reflection, or on retreat from events. It is even less based on the principle of the emancipation of the population. Today, this model is based solely on emotion, immediacy and unreasonable emotional commitment. Whatever the veracity of the words or their authenticity, the most shared publications are those that strengthen us in our convictions and antagonize the public debate without any more nuance. This becomes even more problematic when social networks are the main or even the sole source of information for our citizens. Algorithms that offer only what they already love only strengthen beliefs and beliefs, and we come to the opposite of the virtuous circle that freedom of expression wants. In an ideal world, freedom of expression makes it possible to confront opinions. It is the debate, the meeting of opinions that the reflections and conclusions refine and the nuances appear. But the system of artificial intelligence and algorithms develop the principle of information asymmetry, information by silos. You love; you will receive all this information. You do not like; you will receive all the information that confirms you in the sense of not loving. Now, when everything you see confirms your opinion, those of others are all the more inaudible and completely illegitimate. If everything you hear, everything you read, everyone you interact with shouts that Joe Biden stole the U.S. election, then is it not legitimate for those people who just hear this and receive it as information to act to recover capital? Today, the social media model exponentially reinforces extremes, justifies, bases and supports them. With this resolution, there is no question of censoring opinions at all. Social networks must not become new censors. We do not want a world where everything would become lukewarm politically or politically correct to serve the interests of companies richer than states. But we don't want a world where incitement to hatred can be a business model. With this resolution, we remind the networks of their responsibilities. Social networks must act in the face of manifestly illegal content when it is reported. They must provide an effective complaints service, which does not exist today. They can no longer hide behind algorithms that automatically highlight illegal content. Ladies and gentlemen, the resolution calls for the creation of new rights, including the right of appeal, if it is felt that the content we wanted to publish has obviously been censored wrongly by the social network. This right does not exist since there is no transparency, there is absolutely nothing that governs the functioning of social networks and they therefore already play the role of censor, which some today denounce. That is what we want to frame and fight more against. Transparency is an essential condition for democratic debate. The arguments and counter-arguments must meet to enable the citizen to form his or her opinion. The damage to the micro-targeting organized by Cambridge Analytica for Trump's campaign is still in our memory. In democracy, online political campaigns must be identified as such and be part of a public debate. With this resolution, we give the government a clear mandate in European discussions. Reconciling the right to freedom of expression and thought with the right not to be discriminated against, the right not to be segregated, the right not to be subjected to hatred or violence based on the climate created by social networks is a necessary but complex search for balance. Here, we take nothing from the jurisdiction of the judge, but on the contrary. We were clarifying it, particularly with regard to incitement to online hatred, which also did not exist. We invite the government to provide the necessary clarification. In conclusion, I fundamentally believe that social networks, content and online information can seriously endanger our democracy because they have developed the capacity to guide our electoral behaviour and thus to shape the government in a completely undemocratic and non-transparent manner, simply adjusting their algorithms and having no legal framework that forces them to transparency. Artificial intelligence, which is misused, without ethical reflection, without serious safeguards and without strict control, can constitute an overriding and serious threat to democracy. Vigilance in the face of the unbridled and tenfold ability to manipulate the masses through social networks must guide us in our reflections and actions as parliamentarians and legislatures. Artificial intelligence in its implementation reflects our values, our principles, our society and our conscience. The well-structured artificial intelligence can no doubt help us and progress, but it needs a legal, rigorous, clear, transparent and democratic framework. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not list any historical events or quote insults. Mr De Roover has already done so in detail. It was very interesting. I'd like to quote one event. Today is May 6th. Many of you may not be awake but today it is exactly 19 years since Pim Fortuyn was murdered in the Netherlands. He was demonized and silenced for wrong opinion. On this very day, a resolution is being adopted in this House in order to silence people with false opinions on social media and to deprive them of the fundamental right to freedom of expression. This is a resolution which is the result of almost one and a half years of hearings. Originally it would also be about artificial intelligence, but that it would not be about real artificial intelligence quickly became clear. Colleagues, books used to be burned. Books are still being burned, but they want to go even further. It is not only wrong books that should be burned at the stake, but also wrong opinions on social media should be able to be destroyed. International media giants such as Facebook, Google, Twitter, can be a threat to freedom of expression and democracy if they only allow these messages that fit into their own political vision, or if they do censorship under pressure from their advertisers. These international giants do not have the right to impose their ideal world view on us. They have to comply with the laws and culture of the countries in which they operate. However, the resolution before us today aims to turn on the social media and provide the tools to prevent the wrong content from their platforms. We must not give these monopolists the tools to impose their views on the people, but we must be able to impose sanctions on them when they censor content that is not contrary to the laws in force here. Freedom of expression is a right enshrined in the Constitution which must be respected. Who checks the fact-checkers? They want to have the content of messages checked by so-called independent fact-checkers, a list of trusted flaggers made available by the government, which means institutions and NGOs in which all too often individuals who belong to the left-wing political spectrum are waving. Actually, that's some kind of ministry of Truth. It goes without saying that such an audit can hardly be described as neutral. Expecting neutrality is never a sufficient guarantee to achieve real neutrality, examples of which can be found, such as Mr Baudet in the Netherlands. In this country too, several accounts of mainly right-wing politicians have been blocked or deleted. The monitoring of messages must be carried out on the basis of objective and transparent criteria and must under no circumstances have a political background or purpose. However, when media platforms even engage in blocking or removing accounts from politicians, this is a direct intervention on the right of a politician to express his or her views. A politician was democratically elected for these reasons. I would like to remind the Liberals of the words of one of their ministers from not so long ago. "Freedom of speech, anytime, anywhere." The resolution therefore seems rather to be aimed at creating a framework to censor or remove politically incorrect messages, at the penalty of fines for the social media that do not do so quickly enough. However, there is no call for respect for our local culture and traditions, and little attention is paid to the freedom of expression and the rights of the user. I have just looked it up: freedom of expression occurs exactly once throughout the text. With regard to sponsored political advertising on social media, I would like to point out that such messages already contain a label from the creator. As a political party, it would be totally illogical to post advertisements without branding. That is the essence of advertising. In order to improve this dragon of a resolution somewhat, our group tabled a number of amendments during the discussion in committee aimed at obliging the media platforms to respect the law and culture in that country. These amendments were not supported by any other group, not even by the N-VA, who abstained. They were retabled in plenary and will be put to the vote shortly. We hope that the Flemish interest is not the only party to speak out for the preservation of our culture, traditions, freedom of expression and against the censorship of false opinions. Apparently not everyone realizes that George Orwell's 1984 book was a warning and not a manual. Freedom of speech always and everywhere, restricting freedom of speech will not be with the Flemish Interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u22	Dear colleagues, social media and internet platforms, we know them all and we use them daily. Many millions, many billions of people in the world do that, and that makes those companies behind those platforms and social media become big-tech giants. That is why in December the European Commission proposed two legislative initiatives to reduce the dominant position of this big tech and at the same time to give more oxygen to smaller companies, including in our country, and to protect private individuals. These two legislative initiatives are perhaps the most ambitious since the introduction of the GDPR, the privacy legislation. We all know that it has had a lot of effects for the protection of privacy. Why do I say that? Well, these two legislative initiatives have two issues that are interwoven, because they are both about that big tech. I am now making a small step in relation to the resolution. One of these initiatives concerns the reduction of the dominant position of those big-tech companies, the gatekeeper function. The way in which those big-tech companies are actually trying to compete off the field by exploiting the data and platforms they have at their disposal. It is important that this is restricted. The second initiative, and then we come to the subject of the resolution and the discussion here tonight, is about the fight against illegal content. If we want to fight this battle, I think that there are three important principles in the assessment, also in view of what is going to happen in Europe over the coming months. They are also important for CD&V. The first principle is that online should be a safe environment. It cannot be that some sites are a breeding ground for hateful messages, a call for terror, the spread of counterfeiting and so on. The Eurobarometer shows that a large number of people encounter illegal situations, and 65% of Europeans say that they do not think the Internet is safe. Those numbers prove there's a problem. So we need to work on a secure Internet. I shall now turn to the second point of departure. If you want to be safe online, this means that a quick response must also be possible. A certain response rate is inherent in the social media platforms. If we want to act against illegal content, it must be done quickly. It is then important to look at which system to roll out. The third principle is that it is important to protect freedom of expression. When we see what is happening now, without regulation or European initiative, we find that the big-tech giants themselves decide what is being published and what is not. These foreign companies filter the content themselves, they take initiatives without any transparency. However, there must be transparency in the system. If we bring together these three principles of online security, speed and protection of freedom of expression, then this resolution can perfectly be the starting point for European legislation. There will be a clear system of moderation by big tech, with the obligation to be transparent and to make risk analyses. In this way one can offer guarantees. At the same time, appeals and enforcement systems are also provided. These are all elements that can be taken into account in the debate that will follow at European level. The fight against illegal content and against these dominant positions are elements that we in Parliament must give to our government. This will enable us to become a leader at European level, in order to defend these two important elements. That way we can get good legislation there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u23	Madam President, I expected to be able to leave at 7 p.m., but it's 10.25 p.m. However, everyone has the right to exercise their right to freedom of expression as much as possible. I have listened to the historical reconstruction of the concept of freedom of expression and the way in which it has been defined by history. Defining is also a form of limitation. Some will judge that they were held hostage, but that's in the eye or better in the ear of the bearer. We see some problematic aspects of the motion for a resolution. They have just been explained in detail by Mr De Roover. When we read the motion for a resolution, I get the impression that hatred, fake news and harassment are confined to the digital platforms and social media, but unfortunately the problem is manifesting itself in all sections of society. No one mentioned that move. In this sense, I regret the lack of self-criticism of politics, but also of the political system. If people believe in conspiracy theories or fake news, it is also due to a lack of confidence in politics. The way in which we have tried to manage and combat the corona crisis over the past year with a great deal of conflicting communication and with measures, some of which, we believe, were not acceptable, think of the tacit extension of some of the corona measures, has not contributed to this confidence. This, combined with the fact that more and more people no longer feel democratically involved and have the impression that they do not really count and are cut off from society, makes them resort to other information flows, where they are often confronted with disinformation and where conspiracy thinking becomes attractive. It also has to do with a certain social displeasure and with the contradictions and social inequality, which is constantly increasing. In this sense, we feel that this motion for a resolution combats certain symptoms without addressing the causes of these symptoms. I will make it no longer than necessary, as it has already been discussed in detail, but we also ask questions about how the digital platforms will work. It is said that there must be democratic control somewhere, because this cannot continue to be untransparent. A sort of monopoly of thought is threatening to sneak in and we want to put a stop to that. According to the text, the digital platforms need to be responsive and moderate themselves. But according to what criteria do we need to moderate? How will the moderators be employed? We have also heard fairly ominous reports about the working conditions of the moderators. The main problem is also being bypassed here. The platforms are useful for citizens to establish and maintain social contacts. However, for private companies there is only one thing, namely: making profits. In this sense, we have the impression that the motion for a resolution is a diversion, ignoring the real causes of the symptoms it is trying to combat. That is why we will abstain from voting on the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the speakers very much for the very comprehensive explanations. We have had a rich debate here, with many arguments for and against. In the meantime, however, it is also clear that many of the arguments put forward are not correct. Thanks to the lengthy speeches, you were able to read the motion for a resolution yourself. For say it yourself, a motion for a resolution which is not discussed in a committee of which one is a member is not usually read in detail. In any case, I share the concerns of the first speaker and those who followed him in relation to freedom of expression. Freedom of speech is sacred. That is why I had already mentioned this proposal, which calls for greater transparency of the social media platforms, including with regard to the working methods of algorithms and the reasons why they block people and remove posts. Mr Gilissen, you yourself came up with a reason why your chairman's account might have been suspended, but you are not sure if that was the real reason. Now, with this text, we want to clarify it. Your chairman is entitled to that, too. Mr Buysrogge, Mrs Gijbels, your group chairman has just vigorously defended freedom of expression. It is now clear that this is also the intention of the proposal. So his voting advice to you is actually wrong. You should approve the motion for a resolution, since, as I understand it, your party is in favour of freedom of expression. I can only applaud that. I am therefore pleased that you will support the motion for a resolution before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u25	Madam President, I did not intend to interfere in the debate, but I do so because of a personal fact. In the context of freedom of expression, I will nevertheless follow the opinion of my group chairman. I can reassure you in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if there is one thing that is clear in the debate, then social media are a large part of our lives today. Online is a piece of who we are today. Most people really think about the pictures they put on their social media accounts, about the tweets they put on them, about the messages they put on them, because this is also the image of who they are. It is today. For some people, this is even more important, as for entrepreneurs who develop their business on the Internet. There are even those who have made it a earning model: influencers who generate their income for a part on social media. That's a first observation I'm making. The second observation is that those platforms on which we do so are commercial private companies that determine their own rules of the game. There's nothing wrong with that in itself. I know in our neighborhood cafes where there's a sign: no bachelor parties. If the boss thinks that this doesn't fit in with his case because he wants to run his case in a certain way, that's his right. However, these social media platforms have become so important in our lives today that we cannot just allow them to draw up house rules without at least knowing why they draw up these rules in a certain way. That is the transparency that I believe is the essence of this resolution. So we are asking for transparency about these algorithms. Mr De Roover said that these algorithms can sometimes have very positive effects. I am a member of the website hebban.nl. On hebban.nl you can review books. Occasionally that site tells me that I can read a certain book because I like certain books. That's an algorithm that's being applied, and that's working pretty well. In itself, that's cool. It's just that at some point, we're just fixing something. I think it was colleague Lacroix who said that those algorithms also made sure today that we don't see what we're seeing anymore. Your concern about freedom of expression and free debate is also mine. I see today that many people on social media, almost everyone, are in their bubble and only see those opinions that they express themselves for a part and that are strengthened in that way as by a loudspeaker. That's a problem that's sometimes in very small cases. Mr De Roover, you have started by paying tribute to someone you know well. I learned from social media at the beginning of the year that a young girlfriend, a pen girlfriend, had died. I was wondering why I didn't know that. I've seen on her profile that there were a few messages about a disease. I missed all that. How come I missed this? Because Facebook had decided for me that I wouldn't see her profile anymore. We're friends, but we still can't see each other's profile. Those are the algorithms that make a lot of people think they have a grip on it, which is absolutely not the case. I think it is very important that we give back power to the users of social media so that they can at least determine how they are informed, what they are seen and how they are put together. That's very important. A second form of algorithms are the algorithms that intervene, which allow posts to be removed. Of that we should know the rules of the game much better. We have already discussed this in detail. It is an observation that social media is intervening today. The most famous Twitterer or Facebooker, Donald Trump, has already been mentioned. This week, Facebook had to give text and explanation, which is new, about why they removed the good man from their platforms. They had to do that to some kind of oversight board. This is a new independent body created last year in America. That is what we are asking for in this resolution. That is what the European Observatory is about. Such business is being done in America today. I have a feeling that freedom of speech in America is also very much in the DNA. Particularly crazy questions don't seem to me to be. We are indeed offering a number of tools through this resolution. One of the handles is the moderation. I think you're making a mistake. Moderation is a limitation of opinions for you. For me, this is mainly a message to the social media to organise their trade. It has to be clear. Facebook, the most famous social medium, has been particularly active in our country for more than ten years. It has existed since 2005 or 2006. It was originally an online book of friends. For many people today it has become a news medium. It is as Mr Vanden Burre said. We're trying to figure out how to deal with that. This is a very important news medium today, which was not originally the case. How do we deal with that? How do we make sure that the commercial algorithms do things we don't want to see happen? You say the government can't handle it. I'm gonna ask if this is something the government should do? That is why we propose that the social media regulate their business through this moderation. Let me give you an example of what I think is also moderation. We always talk about Facebook and Twitter, but there are many more social media. To me, TripAdvisor is also a social medium. All kinds of platforms where we create profiles and where we communicate with each other, I think, are forms of social media. You say freedom of speech is your right to hurt. All right, I often do not see the added value of that, but I understand your point. Right to hurt, I'd like to, but then there's got to be an honest way to do that with each other. At Booking.com, a website we all know, they had the opportunity to review a hotel in the initial period. Pretty soon Booking.com had to modify its website to give hotel operators the chance to respond to what some customers wrote. I think that's fair. It can be said that everyone can say what they want, but unfortunately there are still people with bad intentions. With this kind of word and reply, we at least give each other an opportunity to get in touch with each other. That's also a form of moderation. Moderation as such enrollment in the resolution may be a fairly general concept and may need to be handled and organised differently by medium, but you see it too much as a restriction. Rather, I see it as an appeal to the social media to regulate their affairs and to ensure that freedom of expression can be properly organised. In that respect, I am sorry that your party, and other parties, see things differently. Flemish Interest also remains on the sidelines. Mr Gilissen, you are here today to talk about the social media platforms. Facebook came to the committee. I would advise all colleagues to read the report again, including the very critical questions of Flemish Interest. It was more like a coffee chat than anything else. I'm sorry about that. If that company is in the House, ask the questions that need to be asked instead of criticizing them by means of amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u27	Mr Verduyckt, when I said that the right to freedom of expression also includes the possibility of insulting, I would like to make it very clear that I did not say in any way that I am in favour of it, that I am in favour of it. I am only defending the fact that rebuke and rebuff are part of that. I have clearly made the difference between defending that right and making use of that right. That's a distinction we have to make. When you gave your nuance to that moderators, that was very interesting, but it would have been nice if it had been reflected in the lyrics. In your opinion, I interpret that rather narrowly. That is correct, but it is an interpretation that fits perfectly. This is a missed opportunity because for example you could have made an exception or a difference between moderating and deletion. You'd better define that. However, none of this has been used. Those interpretations, which you say are possible, only show that the text is unclear, and so we assume that worst interpretation. It could be in there, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u28	For me, hurting criticism can be a form of hurting. It's all about me being organized. People should be given a fair opportunity to respond to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u29	Colleague, with all due respect, but if I ever missed a committee meeting, it was because I was stuck on the Health Committee. So you've already exercised your right to distribute fake news and your right to insult me. You also say that social media must be responsive when it comes to their moderation. They need to moderate quickly and properly. If I say something that isn't right, you have to correct me. If the social media do not do so, we must be able to remind them of their responsibility and then we must be able to punish them. You also say that the social media do not like to be punished and that they do not like to be fined or subject to restrictions. By the way, who likes to be punished? I think we agree on that. The social media, in response to this, will moderate and censor any opinion that they find to be a little suspicious, any opinion that is being sued by people, so we fall very quickly into the society of those with the longest toes. I find it very bizarre that people say they want to counter censorship. I follow your good intentions in terms of algorithms and pseudo-artifical intelligence, and I fully agree with you that there is no longer any possibility of holding a contradictory debate for itself. It seems in the long run that we are looking at the VRT, where to some extent we are always hearing the same opinion. I rarely hear my opinion there, so I also occasionally look at other channels, I have to admit. I fear, however, that this is how we are going to bring about censorship, contrary to what you probably want to achieve with the resolution, even with good intentions. Do you not fear that instead of promoting free speech, you will restrict her? Once again, in terms of algorithms, I agree with you, but as far as fake news is concerned, which I often translate as unpleasant opinions for me or anyone else, I fear that we are more likely to restrict free speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u30	That's what people are doing today. People are being resisted from the social media platforms. We do not believe that this is a fair fight because we do not know why they do so. Let us be transparent about this, then at least we can have a fair debate. Today, posts are removed, examples are given here, while we don't know why. We believe that transparency should be provided, so that we can at least judge what is going on. Today, neither can I, nor can you. We have now discussed the most important points in this resolution, but there are two other issues which are briefly referred to and on which Parliament must continue to work in the near future. For example, artificial intelligence is still very limited, although algorithms are of course a form of it. On the other hand, the resolution calls for additional resources to be made available for research into artificial intelligence, as some scientists warn of its impact on our fundamental rights. We can therefore take a great deal of further steps in this regard. A second element that is equally addressed at the end of the resolution is microtargeting of children and young people. Like many parents in this country, I am concerned about the impact of social media on our young people. Most parents are not so much concerned about the commercial impact as about the exposure to videos about suicide or abuse of animals. Young children are also exposed to this. There are also young people who suck with their self-image because of social media. So there's still a lot of work to be done. This resolution provides an impetus for microtargeting and advertising, but we will have a lot of work to do in the coming period.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u31	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that the debate we have this evening is exciting, even though some arguments have almost made me fall off my bench. But it is also, in the end, democracy. If this debate so unleashes passions, it is probably because digital platforms and social media are ubiquitous in our lives for the best, but also for the worst. For the best, in other words, to keep in touch with our loved ones on the other side of the world, to inform us, to defend causes, to exchange advice with people who are experiencing the same situation or problem, or to carry them to the media and the authorities. We talked about covid-19 patients long. It was precisely thanks to their Facebook group that they were able to carry their message to this House. We will also talk earlier about explosive weapons in populated areas. It was precisely through social networks that the petition launched by Handicap International was able to obtain so much support. But these media are also used for the worst, in other words to influence our choices, our desires, to isolate us, to lock us in a certain stream of thought, to hate anyone who thinks otherwise, to get insulted or harassed, with consequences that can be dramatic. This virtual space has become a reflection of our real space with its lot of hatred, discrimination, threats to our public safety. But those who are at the origin of it act with impunity or, in any case, that is what they think. They think this is all the more so because algorithms that are ultimately unknown legitimize certain messages and form around the user a universe of messages and information that reinforce, or even radicalize, these thoughts. Digital platforms and social networks significantly influence our behaviour at all, especially those of the younger ones who are looking for benchmarks and models. As Mr Vanden Burre pointed out, they must be 13 years old in order to register on social networks. However, we all know that they are not waiting for this age to open a Facebook or Instagram account. It was therefore essential that the Scientific and Technological Issues Advisory Committee of our Assembly should be able to address this issue. This is what he has done by conducting no less than twelve hearings on the subject of artificial intelligence and on the impact of social networks in our democratic society. In this regard, I would like to thank the fellow members of this Committee for their long work, which led to this motion for a resolution. At the outset, I would stress that my group fully subscribes to this text in that it sets out essential and binding benchmarks for large digital platforms in terms of content moderation, risk assessment, algorithmic transparency and collaboration with what we call "signators of trust" in the fight against discrimination, the fight against child pornography, terrorist propaganda and hate speech. As has been said, this text will also create new rights, particularly for legal action, not only when a platform has not moderated or removed contentious content, but also when it has deleted content, a post, a video or a photo that should not have been. This remedy is therefore in no way a supposed "censorship" in favour of an alleged "good thought", as some of my colleagues feared earlier, but an additional opportunity for each user to see his or her rights and freedoms respected. The challenge is clearly to have legal instruments that are adapted to influence these digital giants and to achieve the removal of illegal content, whether racist, sexist or negationist. This withdrawal will have to be carried out as quickly as possible, because these contents disperse like a drag of powder on the web, with sometimes awkward clicks, sometimes clearly cowardly and ill-intentioned. A withdrawal which, if it takes place within a legal framework in which this motion for a resolution is advocated, is necessary and is justified precisely in the light of freedom of expression and its contours. Because this freedom of expression, even if fundamental, is not absolute. This freedom does not justify everything. A freedom which, as recognised by the European Court of Human Rights, applies not only to the information or ideas received with favor, but also to those which clash, shock or worry, is true. At the same time, this freedom, as stressed in Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, also implies duties and responsibilities. It is a freedom which may be subject to certain formalities, conditions, restrictions or sanctions which constitute necessary measures, in a democratic society, to national security, territorial integrity, public safety, the defence of order and the prevention of crime, or to the protection of the reputation or rights of others. It is on the basis of this article of the European Convention on Human Rights that our Assembly has adopted our laws, which punish racism, sexism, xenophobia and negationism. Laws that we must all respect, in real life as well as in virtual life, while knowing that when things go wrong, when evil is done on social networks, it is in real life that we see the damage. I think we should be humbled to recognize that this is not the only resolution that will move the lines, since this issue is mainly at European level. However, it can encourage our Government to push for greater consideration of these issues at European level, so that the European Union realizes how much we need to protect ourselves from abuse of rights, namely the use of freedoms to harm others' rights. The creation of the European Digital Observatory, in favour of which, in particular, the resolution mechanism is calling for, deserves to be noted in this regard, because the establishment of such a body can inform future European Union regulations in this area. The commitment made by this text is therefore justified, reasonable and, above all, as I have said, indispensable. The web must become a space no longer of hatred, ignorance and vulnerability, but of sharing, openness and security. My group will therefore support this motion for a resolution with great enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u32	Madam President, I will be brief even if the subject is important. This resolution entrusts the government with an important and delicate task. Everything has been said, however, there will still be a lot of pages to write together. I would like to thank you and commend the important work that has been done for more than a year. It is a rich and dense work that is overly inspiring for all the discussions that will take place shortly when the Digital Services Act is drafted. This is an important debate because digital today has a profound influence on our democracies. For example, today, 7 million Belgians are connected to Facebook. The contents exchanged there are algorithms, are the result of computer calculations whose transparency is particularly challenging. There will be no simple solution. We can hear it here, if it were simple, we would all agree and things would be settled quickly. I welcome the Commission's initiative to have dared to bring this debate to the very heart of European democracy. I would like to point out that the ambition – and Commissioner Breton has mentioned it – is simply to be able to consider that what is banned offline must also be online, neither more nor less. Indeed, the DSA points out, in my reading, three fundamental concepts that we will find in the whole digitalisation of our states and our societies. The first is freedom of expression. I think that most of us in this House are deeply committed to it. This freedom of expression is obviously essential. It is intimately connected, as has been said, to responsibility. Second concept: there is much talk in the Digital Services Act about the responsibility of broadcasters. I think we should also not forget the responsibility of the transmitter or the receiver. Today we have actually talked about exposure to content, in a critical spirit. I think the responsibility, when we talk about digital, is in more than one place. Finally, the third essential concept is transparency. We said so. Readability of things and understanding of what governs exposure to one or another content will be essential. I don't want to be much longer. You suspect that my responsibility will be great in the coming weeks within the government. It will be a matter of bringing the concerns of Parliament and our country as a whole into the work of the Digital Services Act. This debate is inspiring and enlightening. I fully measure our responsibility for democracy. We will deal with this issue with complete determination, but also with essential caution for democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, I have a small question for you. I clearly agree with you when you say that what is offline should also be banned online. That is very clear when it comes to issues such as calls for violence, child pornography and so on. We agree on that. But what is allowed offline, should it be allowed online? Let me give you an example: people will always be affected around 6 December. I myself, along with many other colleagues and other people, a few weeks, or a week, have been banned from Facebook because I posted something about Black Piet. I asked myself what that was racist about. I may assume that you will join Facebook so that I can also express my opinion on Black Piet. I would have liked to know about you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u34	Madam President, I think everything has been said in the text. It is now a matter of transparency with regard to Facebook's current decisions and moderations. This is about the readability of algorithms. That is my answer to the question asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u35	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u36	* * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u37	• 2.. Erik Gilissen (1947/3)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u38	• 4 – Erik Gilissen (1947/3) * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u39	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u40	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Samuel Cogolati, Wouter De Vriendt, Georges Dallemagne, Nabil Boukili, Sophie Rohonyi, Guillaume Defossé.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u41	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1222/5) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1222/5) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur is Mr Verduyckt, who refers to his written report, I suspect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u42	That's right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a resolution on which I do not know whether the debate will last as long as the previous one. This resolution is an attempt to continue on the path for which this country, this Parliament, has played a leading role in the field of international humanitarian law. We have dealt with inhumane weapons and so on in the past. We did that for landmines, for cluster munitions. We did the same in the previous legislature for killer robots. In the past, this Parliament has proven that it can play that leading role when it comes to the use of terrible and degrading weapons. I do not doubt the noble intentions of the proposers for a second. I do not think there is any doubt about that, but I would like to say this explicitly here. A global ban on the use of explosive weapons in densely populated areas, who could possibly oppose that? Once and for all, the N-VA, our party, our group, is opposed to the use of dangerous weapons in densely populated areas. Especially when there is a risk of civilian casualties, we must be very careful at all times. And yet, colleagues. We have held extensive discussions in committee. We have organized hearings, all of which were very interesting, in which we have heard different points of view and we have raised a lot of points of view. I will give you a number of reasons why we believe that this may not have been the best attempt in this House. First of all, I make a remark, then two criticisms. I will begin with the reflection, which is mainly directed at the colleagues from CD&V and Open Vld. Today, a resolution which also bears the signature of the PVDA is adopted by the majority. Members of the PTB submitted this resolution together with members of Ecolo-Green. Under pressure from the left and even extreme left, if I may call it that, a resolution is being pushed down our throats. I don't want to say there's a cordon of sanitary around the PVDA. There doesn't have to be a cordon sanitary for me. A cordon sanitair I find something with a rather curious reason for existence. However, I note that the majority parties are breaking the cordon with this resolution. Apparently, there is no doubt about that in those parties. I now turn to our two fundamental criticisms of this resolution. Firstly, the text of this resolution gives rise to a fundamental distrust of our people in the defence sector. We're really having a hard time with that. After all, thanks to the commitment of our military in the international coalition against IS, the West has succeeded in suppressing the established caliphate in Syria and Iraq. Among other things, thanks to our professional F-16s, we have managed to break that caliphate effectively. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would advise you to read recital I from the resolution adopted in committee. I quote: 'In the framework of the military coalition against ISIS, of which Belgium was a member, Colonel Legrier, who led the French troops in Iraq and the Levant, has strongly challenged this strategy and indicated that we have massively destroyed the infrastructure and have given the people a horrific picture of what a western-style liberation can look like, leaving behind the seed for the development of a new opponent'. So we have left a horrible picture of the West, according to the colonel. We have sown the seed for the development of new opponents. So it's our F-16 pilots. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot say much about it, because it has usually been reported in a closed session, but Parliament has always been very well informed in the Committee on the Succession of Foreign Shipments about the deployment of our military. Each time we could hear when there's doubt, there's no doubt. If there's any risk of civilian casualties, our F-16 pilots won't be deployed. However, the present proposal for a resolution is now trying to give a different impression. So we have left the seed for new opponents. My fellow Members argued that it was only a quote and that it is not really the view of the authors of the text. We have tried to get that out by means of an amendment, but apparently that was not possible. Is it really necessary to retain that provocative quote in the text? I find it particularly regrettable that the deletion of that section has clashed with the iron majority discipline. This is particularly regrettable for all parties who felt that we have done a good job in Iraq and Syria. I really do not understand why the Swedish parties can support this provision, and that is all the more regrettable for all our soldiers who, with success, gave the best of themselves there. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a second reason, which is more of a strategic nature, why we are questioning the text, which is actually even more serious. During the hearing, it was also confirmed by the defence representative himself. With tonight's approval, we can show all the good people of the world that we are opposed to the use of explosive weapons in densely populated areas. That's nice, noble and a step forward. However, this does not necessarily mean that all the bad guys, after all, there are good and bad people in the world who also agree with that provision. I'm not convinced of that. In the past, we had to experience that IS uses citizens as a human shield. Ladies and gentlemen, if we now explicitly state that we will never again drop bombs in densely populated areas, do we not run the risk of IS or future opponents using it as a strategy and withdrawing into cities, in schools, in hospitals, in densely populated areas? In other words, will they not use these citizens as human shields more often? So what's our strategy? So how can we respond to that? In his criticism of the text before us, the lawyer of Defense reported the following. I quote: 'This is contrary to Belgian politics, by the way, to use Air OPS more and more often against boots on the ground, including in order not to allow our Belgian military to operate in unnecessarily dangerous operational theatres'. Colleagues, what is our strategy? Are those who approve the present motion for a resolution and therefore do not want explosive weapons in densely populated areas, then in favour of more boots on the ground, with all the consequences? How else do we intend to continue fighting IS, Al-Qaeda or other non-state opponents now or in the future? Colleagues, I really do not understand that. I'm rounding up. You will know from my explanation that our group will not approve this motion for a resolution just because of this frivolity and the lack of a military strategy. An amendment that we had already tabled in committee has now been retabled in order to remove that really striking provision in relation to our soldiers in Iraq and Syria. Please approve that amendment, but still remove that provocative provision. We certainly have fundamental criticism, as you have noticed. We are not in favour of this proposal. I hope that the proposers and all those who support the proposal will still have some insight.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a historic moment because this evening the Belgian Parliament may well become the first in the world to vote for an international declaration to protect civilians from explosive weapons in populated areas, ten years after the start of the war in Syria, six years after the beginning of the war in Yemen, after months of discussions and hearings with National Defence, ICRC and Handicap International. I really want to thank from the bottom of my heart Handicap International for its mobilization. Even though he spent 11:00 p.m., they are here tonight in the public gallery to attend this historic vote. I really want to express to them the full recognition of this very large parliamentary majority who will support this motion for a resolution this evening. Yes, in early 2020, Handicap International came to meet several parliamentary groups, regardless of the party, and showed us images. Here they are. First of all, there's this child, Ali, a one-year-old boy. When he was bombed in Mosul, Iraq, his legs were exploded and he lost both his parents and his brother because of the bombings in populated areas. Then there's this picture of Aidi who was only eight years old when she first heard the bombings in her hometown of Yemen. What's crazy is that finally, she wasn't touched directly. She wasn't the direct victim of a bombing. It is nothing but the fear of hearing these bombings daily from the age of eight that finally paralyzed her for life and traumatized her completely. What was touching, and I must tell you sincerely, is that when these people from Handicap International talk to you, they don't just show you abstract photos and images. They actually talk about their daily lives and their real experience because they come back from the ground. They have been kined, doctors and speak with some experience of life and daily life during an armed conflict. Then, this last photo: Amina injured by a rocket in the nineties to only ten years in Afghanistan. She lost a leg and suffered discrimination, she could not continue to go to school.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u45	Mr Cogolati, I fully understand that as an Ecolo representative, you are putting human rights first. Your coalition also considers this to be particularly important, it is a cornerstone of the coalition agreement. What I don't understand and what I find striking is that you're dragging Yemen's civil war into it. You even bring out photos of civilian casualties, horrible images of tragic victims of violence. What I do not understand is the blindness of the Walloon government, to which Ecolo belongs, to the arms supplies of the state company FN Herstal. FN Herstal supplies weapons via Saudi Arabia directly to the Yemeni civil war. I personally believe that it is an incredibly hypocritical fact that you are showing pictures of victims of civil war here, while they are covered by the weapons you produce and supply with your government and state-owned company FN Herstal at 100%. You're creating a war in the Middle East. I understand that Green wants to be an international champion of human rights, but I would like to ask that at least in your government with Ecolo, with the PS, consider the MR to stop supplying arms to Yemen. I have already mentioned this to Mrs Kitir, because she gives a great deal of humanitarian support to Yemen. You're giving us moral lessons about how to behave on the international stage. You show pictures of victims in Yemen, but you create and organize them yourself. It's been bothering me for some time now. I've mentioned it here a few times. It is said that Flanders does the same. No, Flanders doesn't. Flanders does not supply weapons to Saudi Arabia, or other regimes in the Middle East, nor does it supply Yemen. Prime Minister Geert Bourgeois has drawn a very clear line there. I'm very proud of that. This was in consultation with the entire Flemish Parliament, the entire Flemish democracy, on the proposal of the Flemish Peace Institute. You don't do that. You must submit a resolution using PVDA. By the way, PVDA doesn't have the guts to say anything about lesson old-timer FN Herstal. Those are the saints. We can't say anything about them. Here moral lessons are constantly being learned, but perhaps you should start with yourself. A better world begins with yourself, which is a very important lesson. I think it is magnificent what you are doing and I truly believe in your commitment to human rights. You destroyed Parliament the day before yesterday... that is not your fault, of course. You're blacklisted for China. I'm on a lot of blacklists, but I'm not on that list yet. Maybe that'll come. There is a lot going on in Parliament over the last few weeks, including your actions. I respect that. The Uighurs also have rights. I like that. In this respect, I am proud of your actions, and you will certainly know my support in continuing to raise human rights in China. But I don't understand the blindness. You'll have to bring that up within your party. You can spell great lessons here, but perhaps you can start with the Walloon Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u46	Mr Francken, your comment is unfortunately irrelevant. FN Herstal doesn't supply explosive weapons to Yemen. You should know that, because that is just the subject of today's resolution. This resolution is about explosive weapons, so your comments are totally irrelevant. Secondly, one cannot compare apples with pears. For the people of Yemen, it doesn't matter if the weapons are supplied by Flanders, Wallonia, China or the US. Mr Francken, I say honestly, we have a shared responsibility to protect those civilian victims. That's our mission. That is the objective of this resolution. And I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u47	This is the eternal straw. I've heard that a few times. Elio Di Rupo once told me that fantastic. The man is also a real realpolitiker. He says, "Whether we make them, or the Chinese, or the Russians, peu imports them, that's gonna get us 3,500 jobs." I understand from the wage agreement that they will be paid out this year for the particularly poor Walloon budget. What difference does it make? It's our business to let that factory exist. But that's not how it works, of course. We cannot advocate pacifism, human rights and, at the same time, continue to produce and supply weapons in this massive way. Besides, you say you don't supply weapons to Yemen. That's right, but you deliver weapons to the royal guard of Saudi Arabia who finances, pays and supplies the rebels in Yemen. That's not right again. You know that, and you're really bored with it. I can't believe a human rights defender likes to defend all of this here. You knew I'd sit here and make this point. You've prepared yourself, but it doesn't make any sense. The Walloon government indirectly supplies weapons, explosive weapons, at least firearms, to the civil war in Yemen. Not to Yemen itself, but to the rebels in Yemen. Furthermore, there is the argument that someone has to make them anyway you or someone else. I expect such reasoning from the MR, but not from Ecolo. Would Flanders supply weapons to the civil war in Yemen, what would you say here? If I were you, you would not be standing here, but Mr De Vriendt would teach me a lesson from here to Tokyo. You also know that I continue to appeal to you about this. You really need to raise this within your party, because no one believes you, and credibility is important in politics. It is incredibly at risk here when you argue for great moral principles and human rights, when you supply arms to those conflicts. You're just making money out of it. You are trying to get the Walloon budget out of the deep drain by continuing to supply those weapons. That is the reality, those are the facts. Look at the financial statements of FN Herstal. That's one of the few lucrative companies in your region. We have to be a little intellectually honest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u48	With regard to sincerity and political credibility, I must return the compliment to you. This is about the use of explosive weapons in populated areas. You should know that nine out of ten victims of bombing in urban areas are innocent civilians (children, women). And you're talking about arms exports. I fully agree with the challenge of banning exports to dangerous areas, areas of conflict. We have signed and ratified the Arms Trade Treaty. Today, we are taking an additional step as it is the use of weapons in populated areas. It is therefore particularly hypocritical to raise the first point in order to prevent, in fact, the debate on the real subject that is being discussed this evening. I'm sorry to have to tell you that you're refusing to take this problem by arm-to-body, which is unfortunate. Indeed, when we know that nine out of ten victims are innocent civilians, the question of the use of weapons in populated areas deserves debate and deserves the adoption of the motion for a resolution by a very large majority. A person is injured or killed every 24 minutes as a result of a bomb explosion or the use of an explosive weapon in urban areas. This is the reality of the wars of this twenty-first century. It is important to be aware of this. More than a century ago, it represented just 15% of the victims. During the Second World War, 60 per cent of the victims were victims. Today, 90 per cent of explosive weapons are used in populated areas. The war in the city, in populated areas, has exploded. By voting on this resolution, ladies and gentlemen, we will send a very strong message to the international community. At the same time, our National Defence is already playing a model role. The specialists, the experts, including Handicap International, were still telling me, this afternoon, that with its Red Card Holder system, Belgian National Defence is really one of the most cautious in the world with regard to the protection of civilians. It is precisely this model of the protection of civilians, of the protection of the lives of innocent people that we want to export abroad. We refuse that these deaths remain fatal because, yes, bombing a target today, in an open battlefield or in a populated area, it's really not the same thing. I'm sorry, but here, we're just responding to an international call. We have the impression that this would be a resolution coming from nowhere, which would have been born in the end funds of Parliament of some isolated political groups in Belgium. Not at all! We are responding here to the call of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, António Guterres. We are responding to the International Committee of the Red Cross. We are responding to a very broad coalition of civil society led by Handicap International, among others. I'm proud of that. I am proud that this Parliament is the first to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u49	Mr Cogolati, you speak very nicely about the people of Defense and I am glad to hear them. Then why should there be provocative language in this resolution? Why must it be said that the West's commitment to IS has led to horrific acts? Why does that have to be absolutely in there? Can you please just say that that provision is being deleted from the text?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u50	It is a question of political and intellectual credibility, because that is a quote from a French general. It's just a quote. It is simply an observation coming from the ground: when we target civilian areas and we kill 90% of the civilian population, it is disastrous. It is essential to be able to respond, in particular by adapting and better controlling the use of explosive weapons in populated areas. That is the whole meaning of this statement. This is not an isolated gesture in Belgium, it is a declaration that is carried out at international level by a country such as Ireland.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u51	Mr Cogolati, you say that it is simply a quote, but you do include it in your motion for a resolution. Do you agree with that quote? Do you think that, among other things, the operation of the Belgian troops has given rise to further problems in the Middle East? Do you agree with Colonel Legrier's quote? Do you think that through the performance of our soldiers, our pilots and technicians, we have left our boots on the ground in the fight against IS "(...) the seed for the development of a new opponent"? I would like to know that and I would like to ask this question to the colleagues of the MR, Open Vld, the PVDA, Mr Flahaut for the PS and Mrs Depraetere for Vooruit. If you approve the motion for a resolution, you will, otherwise you will have to leave that quote out. So I would very much like to know, and our boys and girls, who have fought there for years and won that battle, would also like to know whether you think that their actions have given rise to additional escalation in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you that this is not a question of political observation. This view is not limited to Ecolo-Groen, Vooruit or another party. This is an observation made on the ground by civil society, the ICRC and international officials, who tell us that because of its technology, weapons are made extremely dangerous for civilian populations. When you bomb such areas, whether you target them with rockets or artillery strikes, you are by definition targeting areas populated by innocent civilians. That is why I think that this noble commitment should make us proud to fight to try to protect them a little better. Again, I would like to point out that this is simply a matter of avoiding explosive weapons. I have spoken to you about an international declaration, not a binding treaty. In this case, we are simply talking, through a resolution, about supporting a statement that will not even be binding, but that will aim at trying to protect civilians in this urban context as much as possible, because we note once again that nine out of ten victims are innocent civilians. Frankly, I consider it our duty to protect them. The effects of these explosive weapons are not limited to the moment T of detonation, because they also cause numerous domino effects, particularly on civilian infrastructure such as schools and hospitals. That is another reason to protect them, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u53	I assume that the main author of this text speaks on behalf of all the proposers and also on behalf of all the parties who have supported this resolution when he says that the observation made by the French colonel is correct and that the seed has been laid for the next opponent. You're actually right about that. I would like to ask the other parties, the other groups, CD&V, Open Vld, MR, the parties that have co-approved the mission against IS: do you agree? That's outright provocation, it's a sheer disgrace. We take offense at that, but I believe that our people in the Defense Department are taking a lot more offense.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u54	Madam President, allow me also to intervene, as we have also been addressed. First of all, when we look at the quote, we believe that the quotation is in itself. This need not necessarily be associated with the Belgian participation in the coalition against IS. The way I read it, the spirit of that quote is actually that we have to ask ourselves why it is that IS has come in the first place. That quote can be applied perfectly to the way the illegal disproportionate military intervention and occupation of Iraq took place in 2003. The Americans and the British actually gave proof of what the use of weapons of mass destruction, which were not there in Iraq but which they did use in densely populated areas, has resulted. That has just increased the recruitment base for extremism and for religious fundamentalism. It is the war criminals Bush and Blair who destroyed the whole of that country because of their undifferentiated bombings. That's exactly what that quote means. If we continue to do so, organising illegal, disproportionate interference, including in Iraq, including Libya... Look at Libya. NATO intervened there after UN Resolution 1976. There was a no-fly zone. Then what happened? The NATO alliance facilitated a regime change and bombed all of Libya. The result is that the whole Sahel region has been destabilised since 2011. The terrorist groups have multiplied, Mr Francken. That's what that quote is about. That is not necessarily about the fact that we want to discredit the boys and girls of the Defense Department. No, that quote is in itself: if we continue to operate and intervene in the West in this way, we will strengthen terrorism and under no circumstances will we fight terrorism. Then we will give terrorism a further breeding ground. You also asked us about the arms deliveries from FN Herstal to Saudi Arabia. That is indeed a problem. Our party also believes that these export licences should not be granted. We would also like to bring this back to the federal level, because you are always turning it into a Community debate. We need a European arms embargo on Saudi Arabia. Europe must also ensure that compensatory measures are put in place to guarantee income and employment at FN Herstal. That is our position, Mr Francken. If you say that Flanders does not produce weapons, that this is monitored, I believe it. I also attach importance to this happening. However, you cannot tell me that Flemish companies such as Barco, which make parts for weapons, always know where these weapons end up. You say they're delivered to the United States. The US is not exactly a country that violates human rights, we can also discuss it, but nobody prevents the US from assembling those parts that we supply and passing them on to countries such as Saudi Arabia. I am thinking, for example, of the $1 billion deal of the century made by Trump, with huge quantities of weapons being delivered to Saudi Arabia, which were also used in the civil war in Yemen. So it is much more nuanced than the story you are always trying to impose so unilaterally on us, Mr Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u55	Madam President, I wanted to respond to what Mr Buysrogge said about that quote. You pretend that's an investigative report. It doesn't say who did what. That quote is about a military concern about security. He says that the actions we take can have consequences. That's what I believe. The use of such weapons can leave scars. Then I'm not talking about buildings or infrastructure being destroyed, but scars on the soul of people who have lost their loved ones. I can perfectly imagine that. I understand the concern of that soldier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u56	That is, of course, the disadvantage of submitting your resolution together with the PVDA, colleagues of the Liberals and of the Christian Democrats. You will then be taken on a tow with an extreme left discourse. That quote has nothing to do with the invasion of Iraq by George Bush and Tony Blair in 2003, with weapons of mass destruction. That has nothing to do with it. This quote is very clear about the operation against ISIS, and then we are 15 years later. You have to put things in perspective, because every time you speak in the Committee on Defence or Foreign Affairs and talk about military interventions, you start again about the great trauma, the invasion in Iraq. In fact, we have all organised these refugee flows ourselves. We have to welcome them, because we started it ourselves 15 years ago. That is the discourse of extreme left that I have heard for 20 years. That doesn't make any sense. This quote is not about the invasion of Iraq, but about the war against ISIS, which we have fortunately won. You shouldn't throw everything together. You support that quote, just like Ecolo. So you think that our soldiers, our pilots, our soldiers have laid the seeds for a new war in the coming years, a war between Sunnis and Shiiten in the Middle East. That's what you think. That Ecolo, Green, PVDA, sp.a. and PS think so, so far, but that Open Vld, MR and CD&V think so, I'm really looking forward to that. I actually think that is a huge blow to people's faces, and I've met a lot of them in the many years that I've been a member of the Defence Committee. I also went on the scene when I was a member of the government. I think that is a blow to the face of those who defended us after the attacks in Zaventem and Maalbeek and I am very proud of what our people have done there in a very correct way. So I find this quote a disgrace. You say that it is not true that weapons are not produced in Flanders. I didn't say that. I did not say that there are no weapons or weapons produced in Flanders. You need to listen better. I told him no weapons are being exported. It's not the same thing. You mentioned arms exports to the Middle East. You think this will happen. You think that it is via the US or Canada and Bombardier and that the weapons end up in the Middle East after all. That's what you're saying. You said that in committee. I asked you where you got that. Can you make that clear on the basis of reports from the Flemish Peace Institute, Human Rights Watch, Handicap International or other organisations? Can you show them to me? After all, what you're spreading here is completely fake news. The government is going to fight that, but this resolution does nothing but spread fake news. There is a very clear agreement within the Flemish government to look at the final destination. If that is Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Iran or any other country in the Middle East or the Levant, then that permit is not granted. If you have evidence to the contrary, please put it on the table. If you don't have it, stop whining. I would like to make a number of corrections to them because I find it extremely tiring to have to hear the same counter-arguments over and over again when they do not refer to anything. We understand this resolution and we have heard that Mr Cogolati and Mr De Vriendt have a lot of international support for it. I even think she'll be copied. I certainly understand the design of this resolution, but there are a number of shortcomings. We would like to raise them. Mr Buysrogge referred, among other things, to recital I, which in our view is too provocative. I understand you can do this, but I don't understand why you can do that for parties like Open Vld, MR and CD&V. After all, that puts a lot of bad blood on the military, that is just a fact. Besides, there's this unlikely hypocrisy when it comes to FN Herstal. You say you're not really a fan of that either. However, the largest union of FN Herstal is the FGTB, which is completely infiltrated and dominated by your party, the PTB-PVDA. When they get to the streets, your people will be on the barricades and on the pickets. If you say that the arms supplies can be returned to federal jurisdiction for your part, I am eagerly waiting for your bill on this matter. Please submit. The power for arms deliveries was divided at the request of the French-speaking socialists, communists and ecologists. Know your history! It's the only thing that's ever been quickly split up in this country. After a big discussion, a riot even within the government has been decided to split up because in Flanders there was no support for FN Herstal. If I am not mistaken, it was Mr Moureaux who said that it was over. A few weeks later, here in the Chamber, there was just a bill to split up. The power for arms supplies is the only thing that has ever been quickly split up in this country. Now, however, the same parties are coming here to say that we may need to bring that power back to federal level. Submit your bill, I'll think about it and maybe we'll even approve it. We will do so in accordance with the rules of the Flemish Government. However, you will not table a bill, because if we follow the rules of the Flemish Government, you can close your factory and write the dividends for your Walloon budget on your stomach. Please, what an unlikely lack of history and what an intellectual poverty that is here. Know your history! You must know that, Mr De Vuyst.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u57	Mr Francken, I am somewhat perplexed. I have just given my explanation and argued. Apparently, you didn't listen carefully, considering your outburst against me. I have already explained all the things you are telling me in my first speech and put forward arguments. Now you come back with the same allegations. You say I don't know history and I always make the same counter-arguments. Apparently, it is necessary to repeat those arguments. It's about the bilan of the interventions. It does not matter exactly which army makes the interventions, nor does the interventions take place in the context of the fight against Daesh, nor does it matter whether it concerns the invasion of Iraq in 2003 or the NATO operation in 2011. It's about the modus operandi. That is the commitment of this resolution. If we continue to use weapons of war and explosive weapons undifferentiatedly in urban areas, I believe that in some sense we will only strengthen terrorism. We then apply the same standards as the reprehensible standards that ISIS used by using people as human shields. We have to ask ourselves whether we are not going to go down to the same level. Perhaps then we might as well re-introduce cluster munitions and landmines. All these things should be strategically at our disadvantage. So no, Mr Franken, I think you did not listen very carefully just now. The Peace Institute monitors that and I think that is a very good thing. In my opinion, this should also be monitored and monitored at federal level. However, you cannot convince me that we will always be sure of the end-use of these weapons. I have serious questions about that. That's the only legitimate thought I've got. You have a problem with countries producing and exporting weapons and explosives. Well, you are talking to a representative of a party who also defines security in terms of disarmament. We are not in favour of creating military instruments and draining a huge amount of billions of euros into all kinds of collaborations. We want to achieve strategic autonomy, and we are participating in NATO's arms race, because in this way we are making our foreign policy partly dependent on the United States, which is responsible for 23% of defence expenditure in the world. They also drag us back into the new cold war. You are also an atlantean, who resolutely opts for a further spiral of armament. That is also inconsistent and in line with what you have just said. I'll keep the rest for my statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u58	Madam President, I would like to respond very briefly and leave it at that. Mr De Vuyst, I understand, first of all, that the motion for a resolution contains an international commitment. That must always be looked at. However, we cannot approve the proposal, as Mr Buysrogge said, not because we are per se opposed to the principle, but because we are calling for a measure which, in our view, is counterproductive. Are we calling again for the renewed use of cluster munitions or for the deployment of nuclear weapons? The ridiculous doesn't kill [[.]] Dat's a mess. That doesn't make any sense. We have never said that, nor will we ever say that. Secondly, I do not agree that we as atlantics go with the Americans in a spiral or escalation of violence. There is no arms race in NATO. There isn't one. I don't know where you're going with NATO participating in an arms race. The opposite is true. President Biden just explained the opposite. He is the President who is greatly supported by progressive Belgium, with which I have no problem, because he is someone who deserves every opportunity. In his first hundred days there is a lot to say, and internationally he has stated that his country will give NATO a new chance. He's here on June 14, 2021. I look forward to it. In fact, we will prepare for its arrival with the NATO Parliament. However, I have never heard President Biden or any other leader in NATO say that we should go to some sort of arms race, quite the contrary. If there is one party on the international scene that advocates clear arms agreements, both nuclear, strategic, tactical and conventional, it is NATO and President Biden. In that respect too, you stay in very left-wing dogmas, idea fixes. That is the discourse at AMADA meetings or whatever they call them. It is particularly painful that there is a total lack of knowledge. Where's President Biden's arms race? Come up with some evidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u59	Madam President, I did not expect to be interrupted so many times on a text that simply aims to support an international effort called for by the UN, called for by the ICRC and by a very broad civil society platform, including Handicap International, once again in order to try at best to protect civilians in populated areas from bombing. I am proud to bring this text, I must tell you, with a very large parliamentary majority. I am proud to bring this text with the Liberals, the Socialists, the Christian Democrats and other parties. A few days ago, we were at the inauguration of the Unknown Civilian Monument with colleague Rohonyi. I am proud to be able to carry this kind of text, with colleagues from both the majority and the opposition, to say no to the indistinct bombings that kill completely innocent civilians and to say yes to the most basic humanitarian assistance, to support health care, schools, just psychological support and support the education system in these areas ravaged by multi-year conflicts. I will continue to defend these kinds of initiatives, certainly when they come from associations as deserving as Handicap International. In conclusion, I would like to say that, here in Parliament, a very large parliamentary majority, more than two thirds, will support this text tonight. This is a very strong signal, not only to the people of civil society who are listening to us, but especially to the whole world, since we are once again the first Parliament in the world to vote when the same text is under discussion at the National Assembly in France, at the Bundestag in Berlin, Germany. I am proud that Belgium can take the lead in such discussions for peace and international humanitarian law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u60	Madam President, I have seen a lot of things in politics, but the PTB has seen the Liberal colleagues defend it. To colleagues De Vuyst and Francken, I would suggest that they share a terrace on Saturday at the reopening of the catering industry. That saves us here, as well as the staff of the Chamber, probably some time. Restal as a location might be a good suggestion. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make no mistake about it: the Flemish interest, perhaps like the rest of the Half-Round, is not in favour of being bombed in the wild. That goes without saying. Anyone who claims otherwise is of evil will, or in the context of the previous discussion simply wants a Facebookban because of fake news. I'll leave it in the middle. We consider the intention of the resolution before us today to be particularly commendable, because we believe, with Flemish interest, that the use of weapons, especially explosive weapons with a wide range, must always be considered. However, this principle should not prevent us from occasionally wondering how realistic and feasible the fine intentions of this resolution are. It's actually starting with the definition. We have already set up a tree for this during the debate in committee. The applicants do not give a final definition anywhere. Neither in the explanatory statement, nor in the text of the resolution itself, nor in the amendments there is a definition of explosive weapons with a wide range. In fact, there was an amendment No. Mr Buysrogge will correct me if I mention the wrong number in order to extract a definition from the government. Maybe it should have stopped there. The resolution calls for something to be contained which it itself does not really know exactly what to limit. I must at least call that bizarre. The great difference between the proposers and the Flemish Interest is, for this resolution, that we have confidence in our soldiers and our military staff, who are responsible and human enough not to use the weapons mentioned and, moreover, other weapons unwisely. Apparently, the authors doubt the sense of responsibility and humanity of our military. So we don't do that. Moreover, the reality on the ground is in stark contrast to the beautiful, idealistic attitude of this resolution, which we agree with. We cannot deny, ladies and gentlemen, that terrorist groups such as IS, Fatah, Hamas and many others who are unfortunately rich enough in the world like to use the civilian population as shields when it suits them and at the same time likes to fish the enemy civilian population. Colleagues, I wonder if there is anything to suggest that these terrorist organisations will simply reduce the use of human shields, to which Mr Buysrogge referred, let alone stop when we adopt this resolution? I hope so with you, but I fear this will not be the case. I'm pretty sure of that, actually. Terrorist movements do not take international humanitarian law into account. I think we should be very aware of this. Terrorists know very well that they cannot win a conventional war where everyone abides by the rules of the game. Should we give them that tactical advantage with this resolution? I ask myself the question, because in a bizarre and probably unintended way we are actually giving them a kind of manual on how to protect themselves from the Western democracies they hate so much. So I would like to know how we should deal with terrorist organisations that withdraw between the civilian population and therefore carry out their attacks. Is that by using more infantry, boots on the ground, as Mr Buysrogge said, with more casualties among our military? We know that even the deployment of infantry civilian casualties is unlikely to be avoided. Or should we simply leave these terrorist acts untouched? I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, I, like you, am in favour of avoiding civilian casualties at all costs, but I am very interested in the answer. I honestly don't know what the alternative is. During the discussion in committee, there was a lot of illusions about the fact that there are plenty of other means and methods, but much more concrete than that I have never actually heard it become. It was Mr De Vriendt, I think, who threw that at me. I am still waiting for a concrete answer, but I am afraid I will have to wait on that. I also have difficulty with the examples given in the resolution. However, I am not going to dwell too much on this, because in the meantime, the N-VA colleagues have set up a whole forest instead of a tree. It's about facts our troops weren't responsible for or involved in. However, Mr Buysrogge has already gone into this in detail, with the radical support of Mr Francken. So please do not reopen that debate, because then the sitting will only end after 10 p.m. Saturday, and we are all going to regret that. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution also suffers from 'coalitis'. I have already used that concept in committee. One may agree or disagree with the original version, but that original resolution was smashed by the majority's coalition partners. With the wine of this resolution so much water was done that it is probably even impossible for Jesus Christ to make wine of it. And believe me, that man had some experience with that. The amendment in question, which the government is asking what this resolution is really about, weakens the rest of the resolution to 'we must do everything we can to avoid the use of explosive weapons with a wide range in densely populated areas'. My son is ten years old. I'm very proud of him. He would respond to that with an elongated duh. I myself would like to respond with that well-known Anglo-Saxon expression "Let's keep it polite in the plenary session, plus a favorite curse word that starts with s plus Sherlock. Ladies and gentlemen, one can also vote tomorrow on a resolution on the fact that the sun rises in the east or that water is wet or that the Pope is Catholic, and so on. The question is whether this will contribute much to this world. The resolution urges us to avoid the use of large-range explosive weapons in densely populated areas. This has already been regulated internationally, and our defence is applying it in practice. It is already prohibited under international humanitarian law to carry out undisputed, arbitrary attacks and to cause unnecessary suffering. That is what this resolution is asking for, but it is a specific weapon. There is, therefore, already something broader that actually forbids this. So there is already a duty to avoid as much collateral damage as possible. The added value of this resolution is therefore a question that we are asking ourselves. It is these things, together with the weakening of the resolution by the notorious disease of 'coalitis', that have turned the resolution into a symbolic dossier that, frankly, does not mean too much and has made the resolution superfluous in the facts. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that the resolution has become meaningless in the facts and has made itself superfluous by over-ambitiousness, I have to admit that the intention is beautiful and, above all, human. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot, however, fully support the resolution because of the fact that, with all due respect, it is unnecessary. After all, matters have already been settled in international law. Unfortunately, as I said, we cannot give them full support. That is why we will abstain. I hope that you will appreciate this and not use too loose and too intellectually unfair arguments to blame us for not approving the resolution and therefore for throwing nuclear bombs and all sorts of other scum, as has happened in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u61	Madam President, before I begin my speech, I would like to return to the debate just now. Mr Francken, you blame me for a lack of knowledge, but you actually blame me for having a different view of the matter. It is your right to be an atlante and you look at the current world order in a very different way. You're more of a follower of Thomas Hobbes, with a hobbesian world, which wins one, loses the other. However, I and my party have a very different view of this. You may call that naive, but we believe in disarmament and international cooperation. You claim that NATO will not lead to a further arms race. I'm not sure, but I don't think we're spending 2% of our GDP on Defense right now. That is NATO's standard, isn't it? That is what was asked under pressure from the United States, especially under Trump. Biden hasn't spoken out on that yet. I suspect that 2% is the intention. If we go from virtually nothing to 2%, we cannot deny that a greater proportion of our available resources are being used for military purposes. You also say that NATO is not responsible for arms. I would remind you that, for the sake of NATO, we continue to adhere to an outdated strategy of nuclear deterrence. By the way, that strategy is completely bankrupt. It is no longer a question of having nuclear weapons; it is a question of using nuclear weapons themselves. The Americans are investing 12 billion euros to modernise their nuclear weapons. They have B61 and B61-12 bombs, of which twenty are located in Kleine-Brogel. This must not be said, or confirmed, or invalidated. This is how we break the Non-Proliferation Treaty. By buying the F-35, we have also entered into the foreign policy of the United Stations, because we do not need those F-35s. I do not want to start that debate now, which is also an ideological debate. We disagree on that. This purchase also haunts us at a cost. Moreover, the F-35 will be equipped with nuclear capabilities and will cost more. Why does Belgium need that? I would just like to comment on the suggestion made by your colleague earlier. It was pretended that some of the parties of this majority who tabled this resolution would have broken through the cordon sanitair. Mr Francken, you said this in committee, but allow me to give you a proverbial pedagogic touch for that and remind you of how the cordon sanitair was created. The cordon sanitair arose after Black Sunday, when the Flemish political parties decided that the 70-point plan of the then Flemish Block did not pass the test of the European Convention of Human Rights because the plan implied that people are not equal, certainly not immigrants. That's actually the origin of the cordon sanitary. I find it absurd that this would be applied to the Labour Party, because if there is one party in which anti-fascistism and anti-racism is embedded in its DNA, it is the PVDA. This will be all the clearer on 8 May, when the end of the Second World War was commemorated, when fascism was defeated. I just wanted to make that right. I would now like to begin my speech at 12:08 a.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u62	Mr Francken, you are asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u63	Mr De Vuyst, I did not speak to you about the cordon sanitary, but I did do so in committee. I'm 100 percent opposed to cordon sanitary, in all directions. I believe that democracy is a decisive factor. If a substantive agreement can be reached with any party, within the framework of the ECHR, business can be done. That's my opinion. This is the subject of some discussion in our party. You're asking me what my problem is with the PVDA. That is indeed quite a discussion. The only thing I have said about this in committee has nothing to do with the fact that there is cooperation with your party. After all, if one can reach an agreement on something, why not? It is about the MR, about Open Vld and CD&V who always claim not to cooperate with the far right or with the extreme left. (...):... was as simple as that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u64	That is a very clear position for us. Nous sommes le MR, fier d'être libéral. We are Open Vld, we are the real democrats, we are the ones who choose the middle and we are not going to run with the Flemish Interest, but we are not going to run with the PVDA either. That is a political line that was agreed. I understand that, too. This will be easier to explain why people do not want to negotiate with the Flemish Interest. I've been following the Chamber work pretty well for a while. It is striking that it is the first time that a resolution of the PVDA will be approved by the MR and Open Vld. It is the first time that CD&V will approve a resolution from the PVDA. I haven't seen that yet. This is, of course, due to the imbroglio of government formation. Ecolo, Green, the left-wing parties have no difficulty in submitting and controlling resolutions together with the PVDA in Zelzate, in certain Walloon municipalities. You don't mind any of that. The resolution was there and you wanted to go further. You've taken Open Vld and the MR tow to submit amendments, and CD&V too, but well, it's CD&V. It remains a motion for a resolution tabled by the PVDA/PTB. For me it is clear that for the first time the MR will approve a text submitted by the PVDA. I haven't been able to report it to my good friend Georges-Louis Bouchez, but I will. Not only is it about co-approval, but it is also about active participation in drafting through amendments and their defence. I don't think that's ever happened here before.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u65	What's your problem with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u66	I don't have a problem with that. I'm just noticing the inconsistency of your point of view. I suppose I still have the right to speak here, not elsewhere. I'd like to take advantage of that. I speak for a lot of people. I simply note that you are taking a position on the PVDA, but that you are breaking it now by simply cooperating with it. That's all. I'm allowed to notice that. You're asking me what my problem is with that. I'm just making a determination. You have a problem, because you have to explain that, not me. That's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u67	Madam President, I hear Mr De Vuyst say some very strange things about the cordon sanitary. He is convinced that the cordon sanitair has its origins in the 70-point plan, but that is not the case at all. The only reason the cordon sanitary was ever created is because my party wants an orderly division of this country. It had nothing to do with racism. Mr De Vuyst, even if you are convinced that this is about the 70-point plan, I have happy news for you, because my party has already renounced it, even before I have made my first communion. So you're digging up things from a distant past. I have even more joyous news for you from the more recent past. I invite you to read two judgments of the Court of Appeal. In 2016, the Brussels appeal court delivered a judgment in a procedure brought by my party, because you well-known weekly Bruzz refused to publish advertisements from my party. In that judgment, my party is right and in black and white that we are a democratic party and absolutely not racist. In 2018, there was another interesting verdict, this time in a case before the court of appeal of Antwerp, in which I was party together with Egmont publishers, because we were refused at the Boekenbeurs. My book wasn't supposed to be there and Egmont publishers weren't allowed to keep a stand open there. The verdict in that case is well known. The verdict also states that Flemish Interest is a democratic party and that Flemish Interest is not a racist party. On the basis of these judgments, there is no longer any reason to maintain the cordon sanitair. You refer to the 70-point plan, which hasn't been around for 25 years. If you mention this as a reason for maintaining the cordon sanitary, I am pleased to hear that all these reasons have long expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u68	There is a risk, if I go into that, that we have left again for back and forth replies. In view of the late hour, I shall not venture to read these two judgments, Mrs Pas. I can only conclude that the cordon plumbing was set against your party at the time and that the motives of the parties certainly do not apply to us at that time. Ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed signed this motion for a resolution and we will therefore support it wholeheartedly. I do not need to remind you of the story of the bombings in Mosul, Idlib, Fallujah, Benghazi, Gaza and so many other cities with immense suffering, resulting in enormous havoc, often additional permanent pollution and repulsive disruption. In Mosul, for example, 8 million tonnes of debris remained contaminated by explosive remains of war. In 2018, 600,000 civilian infrastructures were destroyed or damaged by bombing and shelling every month in Yemen. The continuing effects of famine, malnutrition and the endless Saudi bombing on civilian infrastructures, hospitals, community homes, schools have thoroughly polluted the country and the atmosphere and will have long-lasting and dramatic consequences for future generations. Recently an article appeared in De Morgen, in which a doctor from a hospital in northern Yemen testifies that the number of miscarriages, premature births and malformations has increased enormously. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to give many more illustrations. When states use inaccuracies or even accurate long-range weapons and explosives in urban areas, they know in advance that they will sow death and destruction. 90% of the victims are citizens. We must note that, unfortunately, international humanitarian law has not prevented and still does not prevent such tragedies. Therefore, this resolution proposal is nothing more and nothing less than an appeal to the government to play a leading role in diplomatic matters, leading to a declaration of commitment by as many countries as possible to ban the use of explosive weapons with a high impact radius in urbanised areas. Ladies and gentlemen, almost everyone in this House thinks that this resolution is a commendable initiative. Some have reservations about it. We have already discussed it and there have been many arguments. In particular, N-VA's colleagues believe that this resolution runs the risk that defence will no longer be able to act effectively or efficiently in a war situation. Once again, it has just been said by one of the proposers, it is not a binding legal text that would put Defence's actions in a straitjacket. The objective is simply to minimise humanitarian, economic and social damage, which can also destabilise entire countries and regions. Think of Syria, Iraq and Libya. Some also agree that Belgium is already acting in a very responsible and ethical way in this area. I myself was not present at the hearing in question, but my colleague Mr Boukili did, where Mr Lange told us that, in his knowledge, defence has not yet caused civilian casualties. What is the danger that the defence sector will no longer be able to act properly if we have made a virtually flawless course in this area? And I am sure that will be the case in the future. We must not forget that there is an international dimension to this resolution. The aim of this proposal is to continue, promote and deepen Belgium's leading role in other dossiers, such as cluster munitions and anti-personnel mines. If the Belgian Defence Department itself does not need a renewed effort to act more differentiated and clearly, then this resolution may serve as a signal to our self-declared allies, unless, of course, as I said earlier, we are satisfied with the bilan in Libya, Iraq and Syria. In those countries, we see what the current warfare of different coalitions of the will of NATO or NATO alliance members have done, which is described in detail in the winged quote that has just been quoted by the other speakers. I certainly won't repeat it to not reinvigorate the polemic. Colleagues, as I have just said, they are terrorist and fundamentalist groups such as the IS that are ruthless to their opponents, in their tactics and in the use of human shields in urbanized areas. However, we must not fall into the same trap by being ruthless and using explosive weapons ourselves in those urbanized areas to combat those groups. In that case, we are just playing into their hands. I have just pointed out that we are thus increasing the recruitment base of extremists and fundamentalists. So let us fight this scourge of terrorism and extremism by no longer organising ill-considered and unlawful interference. In this case, there should also be no recourse to military means to combat the former products of illegal interference once again. Let's pierce that spiral. We therefore welcome the resolution as a necessary and desirable step in the right direction. We shall therefore give them our full support, as has already been pointed out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u69	Mr De Vuyst, you say that we are nothing with international law, and a little later you say that it is not a binding legal text. It's true what I'm saying, isn't it? So what exactly is the added value of a resolution that we ask the government in a rather hollow way, when we ourselves do not know what the purpose of it is? What makes you think that this resolution is more important than an international agreement than international law, in which similar things are already banned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u70	The resolution is what it is. It is simply stated that we need to get as many countries as possible diplomatically with us to ensure that we do not use any more or no longer undifferentiated explosive weapons in urbanised areas in order to evolve towards a certain standard applied by all other countries. For example, if some countries join a treaty, but others do not, it should not be underestimated that the standard that is being achieved also puts considerable pressure on other countries that do not. It is very important that we play a pioneering role in this, as with cluster munitions, anti-personnel mines and so on. There will be no bill here that will bind the Defense Department with hands and feet. Defense is already operating in a way that doesn't involve civilian casualties. We're doing almost perfect. So I do not understand why this is immediately seen as a contradiction with the way in which the Defence Department now operates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u71	That's my point. You just said that we already have non-distinguishing ammunition under international law and that we avoid as much damage as possible and civilian casualties. You say we're doing almost perfect. And now you're submitting a resolution asking for the same thing. I do not understand the added value of this. It is a fine resolution and its intention is very good, but I do not understand its added value. That is also the reason for our abstention, but with your saying that we are nothing with international law...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u72	No, um...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u73	We are not complying with international law, which is what it comes down to in the end. It's not a binding piece of legislation. Then I wonder whether this resolution will weigh so heavily that we will impress the rest of the world. I hope so, but I doubt it anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u74	If the international legal framework and international humanitarian law exist, it is indeed a good thing, but it cannot prevent these bombings. Belgium is doing well, but we must somehow try to convince our self-declared allies that they must apply those rules of conduct in the same way. That is all this resolution requires. I believe that this is a step in the right direction, especially if current international law fails to discourage many countries from doing so. That is the purpose of the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, during the many moments of remembrance I have already experienced as a local mandator, it is always said: never again war, never again horror. We all agree with that. But once the subject is addressed in a text such as that before us, it is still a matter of debate. It is difficult to lay down by law that there will never be a war again or to prohibit atrocity by law, but with this motion for a resolution we are taking a step in that direction. Mr Buysrogge asked what the purpose of the proposal was. I think it's obvious. The aim is to achieve an international political declaration whereby the signatory undertakes not to deploy explosive weapons with a major impact in densely populated areas. Colleagues across the hemisphere raise the question of what to do if the enemy is hiding in those densely populated areas and not in caves or in the mountains, as is happening today in Syria. I dare ask them the question again. Shall we really deploy explosive weapons in densely populated areas and tell our military to press the red button? I'll give you the answer right away: we won't. Our enemy knows that today. He knows we don't. By the way, we haven't done that in a long time. In the debate on Syria and Iraq in Parliament, almost every group has called for all of our F-16 actions to avoid costly civilian casualties. Would we then be using explosive weapons in densely populated areas? There's no way I can reconcile those two things. People know we don't do that. The only thing we are doing today is saying out loud and clearly in this resolution that we do not think this is the way to deal with conflicts. I can't rhyme with those two things. That is why our group will support this resolution. We will indeed not prevent wars, but hopefully we will be able to avoid some unnecessary suffering by taking this step towards that international declaration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u76	Madam President, Mr Verduyckt asked for further clarification, which I would like to give him. I just want to quote what the report says on page 25, a quote from the mouth of the defense attorney: "When non-state actors know that explosive weapons can no longer be used in urban areas, there is a great risk that these non-state actors will concentrate their resources even more in urban areas." That is my answer, colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wanted to thank Handicap International for its presence in this late hour, but also and above all for its long work in raising awareness of the use of explosive weapons with a wide impact radius in populated areas – in areas thus destroyed in a few days but which will take decades to rebuild. I also wanted to thank Mr Cogolati for putting this item on the agenda of our work and for allowing me to fight it with him, but also with the other fellow signatories, both the majority and the opposition, of this text. These weapons are aerial bombs dropped on towns and villages, shell, artillery and mortar fire, grenade launches or multiple rocket launchers. It was said that during the First World War, 15 per cent of the victims of the war were civilians. Today, more than a century later, nine out of ten victims of explosive weapons are innocent civilians. In 2019, nearly 30,000 people around the world were injured or killed. Behind these figures, each time they are lives broken forever. Families who lose a child, a brother, a sister or a husband, children who find themselves orphaned because they have had the misfortune of being in the wrong place at the wrong time, citizens amputated with an arm or leg and thus seeing their dreams broken or compromised, families who see their city completely destroyed and contaminated with remnants of explosives and thus being forced to flee to seek refuge in a safer area to finally land in refugee camps. All their lives, these citizens will pay the price of this explosion that will forever change their destiny. Today, I am proud to ensure that our Parliament is indeed the first parliament in the world to launch the signal that the use of these large-scale explosive weapons should be avoided as far as possible in populated areas. This is a problem that is growing year by year as our world urbanizes. Yes, in armed conflicts, the zero risk of collateral damage obviously does not exist. Nevertheless, the principles of international law of distinction, precaution and proportionality require us to protect civilians as much as possible, to ensure that they do not knowingly become cannon flesh. As Mrs Méril de Handicap said in committee, civilians are no longer collateral damage. They are now the main victims of conflict. The collateral damage has now become international humanitarian law itself. There are such victims in Syria, Iraq, Pakistan, Nigeria, Somalia, Gaza, Libya, but also, still today, in Nagorny Karabakh or Yemen, where 49% of health facilities are no longer functional. The challenge is therefore very clearly to save lives. The challenge is to call on Belgium, through its role in the European Union, NATO or the Council of Europe, to make the voice of international humanitarian law loud and clear. The challenge is also to call on our country to change the rules on the use of explosive weapons, which certainly call on the belligerents to respect the principles of precaution, distinction and proportionality, but which do not explicitly and concretely protect civilians from explosive weapons in populated areas. The analyses conducted by Human Rights Watch and the Harvard International Human Rights Clinic set out solutions to improve the protection of civilians from these weapons. It is therefore not a question of penalising or stigmatizing the Defence, as I had the opportunity to hear earlier. It is simply a question of inviting countries to include these solutions in their political statements. It is simply a question of asking our Government to shoulder its responsibilities and honour its legal and moral commitments by defending solutions, these solutions, when adopting the international policy declaration against the use of high-impact explosive weapons in populated areas. We have already said this, but I would like to remind you that this seems fundamental to me. In this way, our country will be the first country in the world to make a clear and unequivocal commitment to avoid the use of large-scale explosive weapons in populated areas, to recognize the humanitarian effects and consequences resulting from the destruction of vital infrastructure for civilians: hospitals, schools, roads, electricity, gas and communication networks. Our country is also committed to assisting the victims of these weapons and to ensuring unconditional access to bombed areas for humanitarian aid actors. My group is therefore particularly pleased and proud to support this motion for a resolution. I would also like to point out that the defence of civilians and their rights in times of armed conflict goes beyond political differences as well as linguistic differences. I must say that I am particularly saddened to see that in committee my colleagues from Vlaams Belang abstained and that my colleagues from the N-VA objected in the vote on this motion for a resolution. I listened carefully to them. I understand that, indeed, it is not today that they will "change their shoulder rifle" to use a very bad pun. I regret that, in doing so, we are preventing this motion for a resolution from being voted unanimously, which would have really been a magnificent signal to society as a whole, but also to the other countries which, I must tell you, are watching us today. That is a shame, especially because the arguments you made earlier are not. We mix debates that have nothing to do with, that do not even concern the federal level and that do not even concern the wide-range explosive weapons that we are aiming for in this text. We will ensure that this resolution is the beginning of a new chapter, that of a State resolutely committed to the protection of civilians. It is for this reason that I am not happy to be able to support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u78	Madam President, in accepting this resolution, Belgium is part of a long tradition, which has seen, in particular, Mr Mahoux, a member of the Socialist Party at one time, set up the fight against anti-personnel mines, and also the same actors who wanted to fight fragmentation weapons. So we are in a long tradition for peace in the world, which is our pride.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u79	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. * * * * * * * Amendment by: Amendment tabled:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u80	* * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u81	The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u82	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: André Flahaut, Christophe Lacroix, Hugues Bayet, Malik Ben Achour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u83	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (985/4) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (985/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. Ms Julie Chanson, rapporteur, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u84	Madam President, we also had a good debate on this proposal in committee. We have worked well and organised hearings. First, this. Colleagues attending this meeting from the home front, I sympathise with you. At this late hour, sitting alone on the computer, is not obvious. I can tell you that the debate we had on this proposal caused less excitement than the previous debate. It was more serene, if I may use that word. The N-VA Group therefore wishes to express its appreciation of the two political groups that have tabled the text before us, namely the PS and the then sp.a Group, which have thus placed the item on the political agenda and on the agenda of our parliamentary work. We know better than anyone that we can't let the DOD stand alone. Military commitment must always form part of a comprehensive approach, the so-called comprehensive approach, with regard to the necessary diplomatic actions and the necessary development opportunities for the countries concerned. In short, the famous 3D approach is already very affectionate, being defence, diplomacy and development. Defense can drop bombs, train military from other countries or send Navy ships somewhere. Without accompanying initiatives such as support for early or non-democracys, the promotion of security and the economy in those countries, Defence may invest a lot of money in the military field, but it does not always lead to the so-called long-term successes and results. We fully agree with the basic idea of this proposal. Unlike the previous text, which we have just discussed, we will not vote against. We'll abstain. That abstinence is not motivated by the fact that this is once again the Team Belgium with which this government wants to unpack. We as a party fit for this forced ruse of Belgian nationalism and the massive communication budgets allocated to it. I would like to give two other elements why we will abstain from this resolution. A first element is the possible return to the Great Lakes. In our colonial past in the last century, we have been heavily oriented in our foreign policy and defence policy towards the vast region of Congo and the Great Lakes. Fortunately, in recent years, there has been a reorientation and Defence has been able to get rid of a possible image of Tintin in Africa. We are, however, somewhat afraid that this text of the PS and Vooruit Group wants to move in that direction again, especially when we read positive passages about the good cooperation between Defence and the BTC, the predecessor of Enabel with the Democratic Republic of Congo. We are in favour of developing a defence policy that would be subordinate to development cooperation or other economic interests in that region in the centre of Africa. A second criticism, or rather concern, concerns the budgets and core tasks of Defence. The minister, although not present here, likes to promise heaven on earth: investing in cyber defence, in additional capacities, in new barracks, in additional wages for military, in even more military. The budget Vivaldi tree is, as it were, growing into the sky, while the core tasks of Defense are already under pressure from corona and the associated help to the nation. What frustrates us in recent months is the lack of budgetary transparency that should be linked to it. First of all, the Minister says, for example, that the financing of these new barracks will be financed with the European relay funds. Then she says that it may not be possible to do so with European funds, but that we will finance it with federal relays. Now, specifically for those barracks and cyber defences, we hear that these funds would also be insufficient for this purpose and that additional investments should be financed through their own defence resources. Follow who can, but hopefully at some point we will get a clear answer and we will finally get ready wine in committee, because it is not clear to us anymore. At first sight, we are holding our hearts together for all those plans that are being announced, but at some point butter must be added to the fish. With this resolution, we want to strengthen cooperation between Defence and Development Cooperation. However, we do not know how all this can be done without additional funding. Additional funds will not be provided for in the general budgetary framework or specifically for this purpose. I would just like to read out what the resolution says on this point: 'The budget of Belgian development cooperation must remain precise and must not finance security projects'. So no money from development cooperation can go to the DOD. However, we do not read the opposite, namely that Defence should not finance development cooperation. Perhaps part of the defence budget, which is already under pressure, will be used for development cooperation. This resolution does not rule that out. Colleagues, as has been said, our group is in favour of a strong cooperation between Defence and Development Cooperation in the context of this 3D approach. We will therefore not vote against this resolution, but, in the light of the arguments put forward, we will abstain from the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the authors of this proposal, which we are discussing at this late hour. The proposal, tabled by the Socialists, is mainly aimed at strengthening the partnership and cooperation between the departments of Defence, Development Cooperation through Enabel, and Foreign Affairs. All this fits in with the idea of making Belgian foreign action more efficient by means of an integrated approach, the text states. This means, therefore, that we must work towards a comprehensive approach that would strengthen the coherence between the various public administrations and the policy areas of defence, development cooperation, home affairs, justice, migration and foreign affairs in the context of diplomacy and thus promote mutual cooperation. Colleagues, the search for enhanced cooperation and permanent consultation between the FPS Foreign Affairs, Development Cooperation and Defence is, of course, worthy of our encouragement. In this respect, we are largely in agreement with the intention of the proposal, as we have pointed out in committee. The coordinated approach and, in particular, the communication between public administrations working together in the foreign field can only be effective. Anyone with a little common sense realizes that only military commitment, no matter how solid and reliable, can bring little or no relief in certain areas or foreign theatres. However, I warned in committee that we absolutely must avoid losing sight of the core tasks of our defence throughout the debate. What are these core tasks? That is protecting our airspace, our territory and our territorial waters, defending the interests of our citizens abroad and taking up our international obligations in the framework of foreign missions. I must say once again that the proposal gives the impression that defence and development cooperation are almost to be merged into a whole. Of course, it is logical that our military sometimes have to coordinate or secure humanitarian aid or development aid in foreign conflict areas or post-conflict areas, but the priority must remain on the core tasks. In times when the Vivaldi government, with our defence, wants to move to a glorified civil protection service, forgive me for saying that it wants to move forward, these core tasks sometimes disappear in the background. Question 6 of the amended text states, for example, that we must take account of the achievement of the objectives of Belgian development cooperation. I can tell you that we do not agree with that at all. We also see that these objectives are reiterated in the proposal for a resolution in the context of coordinated cooperation or global cooperation. We cannot support that part of the proposal. As Mr Buysrogge rightly pointed out, the budgetary impact of the global approach was given little or no concrete substance during the presentation by the authors. Of course, there is little confidence in a motion for a resolution that sets this coordinated approach as its objective. If there is no budgetary framework or concrete implementation, it will of course be difficult to determine the future in this area. We also have an additional comment on the implementation of this development policy, which cannot be seen separately, because of course it is coherent. The Flemish Interest Group believes that development policy needs to be radically reoriented. Of course, we see little or no response to this in the proposal. That is not surprising, of course, given the names of the proposers. That debate on development cooperation would lead us too far today, and I shall not go into it further. In any case, this should be reflected in the proposal. Positive in the whole context of development cooperation, the call is for a list of priority partner countries for cooperation with our departments of Defence and Development Cooperation. In itself, that is a good thing. However, the question remains whether the composition of this list will take account of our security interests and also of migratory flows to our continent. In our view, however, the proposal focuses too much on the Great Lakes region, but that is not surprising either, given the main provider. I made those comments at the committee meeting. Madam President, I will conclude. We support the idea of an integrated defence approach, which promotes security in the world and in that country. On the other hand, the core task of Defence is not to cooperate in development cooperation, either at national level or at European level, in order to achieve the objectives I have mentioned. The objections I raised in committee relate to the budgetary approach, the focus on the Great Lakes region and the risk of underutilisation of our core tasks. Because of these three objections, the proposal does not gain our confidence. We abstained in the vote in committee, and we will do so here in the final vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u86	Madam President, I will try to make my speech brief and concise. Colleagues, a more coherent and comprehensive foreign policy is, of course, necessary. I'm kicking in an open door by setting that up. In this resolution, we still have a number of serious questions, as well as in the re-evaluation of the Strategy NoteComprehensive Approach. Linking and matching policy areas is, of course, crucial, but we read in the accompanying text, for example, that each policy area should retain its own identity and that cooperation between Defence and Development cooperation should also focus on areas where Defence and its partners have interests. We believe that in one way or another there is still a slippery slope to situations where development cooperation can be subordinate to Defence. Again, we do not think that is excluded. If we want to forge a coherent whole of these two policy areas with their different objectives, it is not enough, of course, to combine a number of activities of these two different areas. Then, of course, we must also set clear objectives to give these two areas a common direction and to make them truly coherent. Several experts also pointed this out at the hearing. In our view, the main objective of this cooperation should be to meet the human needs wherever they may be. If this is not explicitly included in the foundations of this cooperation, then we risk taking a walk with the intrinsic values and objectives of development cooperation. That is why we were alarmed and suspicious, because in the Comprehensive Approach Strategy Paper and in the original resolution, this cooperation was made conditional on the minimum condition for unbound aid. It is important to include at least the humanitarian principles as a guiding principle and to define precisely the issues and principles in the nature of action during a comprehensive approach in different circumstances in the context of development objectives. There was a certain sequence. There's also been a hearing. After the hearing, the resolution was, of course, amended, including by its authors. Some of the amendments were partly in line with the amendments tabled by our group from our point of view, in order to ensure the integrity of development cooperation. Unfortunately, our amendment was not taken into account. However, the amendment explicitly stated: '...to ensure that cooperation between Defence and Development Cooperation would be based on the official development assistance formulated by the OECD, thus addressing the human needs of the local population, maintaining the neutrality and impartiality of development cooperation and safeguarding the operational independence of development cooperation'. We will therefore abstain because our amendment has not been taken into account with the explicit wording. So we are still not entirely convinced that the objectives of development cooperation will be pursued in an unbound manner. So far, my explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u87	Madam President, everyone knows that we have divided our country into different areas and competences at every level. We give certain powers to the Ministers and Secretary of State, but in the real world that is different. These lines do not run there and we know that we must work together. I note that everyone in the hemisphere applauds this cooperation in themselves and supports its principles, but, as in the previous discussion, a lot is then sought in the text and the proposal is ultimately not supported. That's too bad. On the defence side, too, there has been a growing awareness that this cooperation is particularly important, because military conflicts are simply very complex: there are many things involved. There are many interfaces: political-strategic but also economic. In recent years, climatic aspects have also been taken into account, and I fear that this will only worsen in the future. Under the wings of Enabel, the concept Team Belgium arose. I am sorry, Mr Buysrogge, but that is still the name of our country until further notice, so it does not seem to me to be such a strange decision. It is intended that the embassies in our partner countries operate under Team Belgium as a single team and speak with one voice. I don't think you're against that in itself. I think it makes sense. Indeed, international development policy is an integral part of the wider foreign Belgian action, with respect for the rule of law, as several colleagues have said, management autonomy. Defence also has a role to play in this, especially because Belgium is also active in certain foreign theatres where we work together with several partners in diplomatic or development cooperation. For Forward, it is simple: with this text today we are sending a clear message that Parliament strongly believes in a comprehensive approach, not for reasons of efficiency or even financial savings, reasons that are very often expressed in cooperation, but in the long term. We all know that in conflicts we must also be able to look ahead to the reconstruction of the country and ensure that there is no breeding ground for any future conflicts. I certainly do not doubt the good intentions of the relevant ministers Kitir and Dedonder who will certainly agree with each other in the government, but this is an attempt at structural cooperation and we can only support that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u88	Madam Chair, this is a resolution, not a bill or a bill. In these circumstances, the presence of the competent minister or ministers is not required. In this case, the government is represented. This resolution follows on from the government agreement and from the statements of each international policy officer, since the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Defence and Cooperation are concerned. It is towards our strategy that she converges. The resolution is based on an observation that I have had the opportunity to make on several occasions, namely that military and humanitarian are sometimes very opposed worlds, while in certain circumstances they pursue the same objective: to help populations in difficulty to try to restore or maintain peace in the light of situations. Good cooperation between the three departments is essential for a coherent and efficient approach, also in the use of available budgetary resources without necessarily needing communication between budgets. A mutualisation is then useful and beneficial to each without merging departments, from one to the other. I will recall what I said in committee: when Germany sent troops on external operations, for example to Kunduz in Afghanistan – and we were there – one of their representatives in Development Cooperation was present alongside the military to ensure a coherent approach and rational use of resources. On the other hand, I would like to say that this approach seems to me to be coherent, strengthening our credibility. It is pragmatic and concrete. It has also been translated in another way, and not necessarily into war operations. B-FAST is an intervention group that we set up with the philosophy of implementing means of cooperation, foreign affairs, defence and even the interior. B-FAST, which had been created at my initiative and that of Mr Michel's father here, has intervened in many international theatres whose situations were difficult. Belgium was then identified as an important actor. I point out that I did not start by saying that I would be in a short time always wary of the speeches that start with this announcement, because they are usually the longest. Having not said so, I conclude, Madam President, by thanking the chairman of the committee for the way in which he conducted the work, the rapporteur and all the members who participated positively, after the hearings, in this work. The votes that will be cast today will either be favourable or will be abstentions for reasons that have been developed, reasons that oppose each other, attesting to the perfect balance of the text making the synthesis. I thank everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u89	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u90	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Buyst and Mr Roggeman. They shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u91	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain the amendment, as tabled in committee, to the plenary. The Flemish Interest Group would still like to add the following sentence in Articles 3 and 4 to the term "seafarers include crews of dredging vessels and drilling platforms'. This is, of course, important in order to underline the importance of these sub-sectors and their staff. The draft law as it stands should clearly apply to all nautical workers in the wider scope. We therefore consider it desirable to include this in the context of enlargement and to avoid confusion. The draft law itself is, of course, supported by our group. The monitoring of compliance with the working conditions and welfare of seafarers, including all nautical personnel at sea, should be strengthened by all means. We also consider the administrative simplification that this draft law embraces to be very important for the maritime sector and for everyone in it. So this deserves our full support. This is, of course, also an opportunity to reiterate that our Flemish world ports and all related sectors are the engine of the Flemish economy, which is also undoubtedly the driving force, or at least one of the driving forces, behind the financial transfers to the Walloon and the Brussels-Capital Region. Mr De Roover mentioned algorithms just now, including in the context of the Dutch supremacy in the nautical world, but fortunately there are also figures and statistics to support the theories I mentioned earlier. Therefore, the Flemish interest certainly supports the draft law in substance, but the place where it takes place is completely misplaced. The North Sea as the sixth Flemish province and all maritime activities associated with it, have geographical, substantive and professional interfaces with only one region, and that is with the Flemish Region. I would also like to clarify this, ladies and gentlemen, because we note in committee that this is obviously not very important for the other regions. They don't bother to cloak this either. For example, advice was sought from all regions for this draft law, but only an opinion was obtained from the Flemish Region. In committee, too, we find ourselves, and the Minister with us, that there is very little interest and enthusiasm from representatives of the French-speaking parties. We therefore hope that in future we will no longer have to discuss and approve such matters in this House, but in the only parliament where they belong, the Flemish Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u92	Madam President, Mr De Spiegeleer, the amendment you tabled was also tabled in committee. I therefore refer to the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u93	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u94	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1769/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1769/7) The bill has 39 articles. The draft law has 39 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u95	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u96	Not related Without report
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u97	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u98	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1876/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1876/3) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u99	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u100	Not related Without report
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u101	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u102	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1877/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1877/3) The bill has six articles. The draft law has 6 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u103	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u104	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Thibaut. It shall refer to the written report. Mrs Moscufo has the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u105	Madam President, I will be brief to justify our abstention. On the one hand, we support this allowance for all those who telework; this seems important to us. On the other hand, we join the criticisms of the Association Syndicale des Magistrats concerning the extension of the career of judges from 73 to 75 years of age. We are quite opposed to it all the more as we know that, for years, the government has not committed the number of judges provided for in the law, which is why it was condemned in March 2020. We believe that the proposal to extend the careers of judges is not the solution. It would be better to strengthen justice and make the necessary commitments to that end.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u106	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u107	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1922/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1922/3) The bill has 9 articles. The draft law has 9 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u108	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u109	By letter of 5 May 2021, the Court of Auditors informed the Court of Auditors of the death of Mr Richard Leclercq, Honorary President of the Court of Auditors, on 21 April 2021. By letter dated 5 May 2021, the Court of Auditors informed us that Mr Richard Leclercq, Honorary Chairman of the Court of Auditors, died on 21 April 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u110	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 18 March 2021, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Moniteur of 25 March 2021 for the term of a Dutch-speaking female alternate member. This is the term of alternate member of Ms. Shaireen Aftab who will complete the term of effective member of Ms. Yousra Benfquih, who has resigned. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 18 March 2021, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 25 March 2021 for the mandate of Dutch-speaking female alternate member. It concerns the mandate of deputy to Ms Sharieen Aftab. This will complete the mandate of Ms Yousra Benfquih, who resigned as an effective member. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Ms. Tine Claus, Head of the Equal Opportunities Cell of the FPS Justice; - Mrs. Charlotte De Mondt, UNISOC Legal Counsel. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Ms Tine Claus, responsible for the Equal Opportunities Cell of the FPS Justice Department; - Mrs. Charlotte De Mondt, legal adviser UNISOC. By e-mail dated 27 April 2021, Ms. Saloua El Massaoui applied. By e-mail of 27 April 2021, Ms Saloua El Massaoui submitted her candidacy. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 May 2021, I propose that you declare Mrs Saloua El Massaoui's candidature late and that the other two candidatures be forwarded to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 May 2021, I propose that Mrs Saloua El Massaoui's late candidacy be declared inadmissible and that the two other candidates be sent to the political groups. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u111	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u112	There is a question of urgency for a motion for a resolution, No. 1967/1, to ensure the availability and accessibility of the COVID-19 vaccine by removing the patents on this vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u113	Madam President, we are calling for the urgency of this motion for a resolution which seeks to ask the federal government to take a position within the World Trade Organisation in favour of the lifting of patents on covid vaccine. We had a debate last week with Minister Kitir, who said that she had never defended such a lifting of patents. We also heard the Prime Minister earlier, who was quite reluctant. We are not satisfied and we want to continue this debate. We know that the United States supports this proposal and we wonder why the European countries, and therefore Belgium, would not adopt the same position. In the meantime, a citizens' initiative called "No profit on the pandemic" has already gathered 185,000 signatures. This makes it possible to put some pressure on the other European parties, which are changing their minds. We would also like Belgium to change its mind because there is an urgent need. The humanitarian disasters in India and Brazil demonstrate this urgency. We would like to discuss this in the Health Committee next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u114	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u115	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 27 April 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission of 27 April 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 113/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Kattrin Jadin. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 113/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Kattrin Jadin. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, today you will be voting on our motion on the murders of Kurds in Europe against the Turkish regime. I did my interplay in response to the astonishing statements and confessions made by Ismail Hakki Pekin, the former head of the Turkish military intelligence service MIT, about murders on Kurds on European territory. Mr Pekin made it clear that the Turkish regime must do everything it can to eliminate Kurdish leaders. They are Kurds who are blacklisted and on European territory. In addition, he confessed that the murder of the three Kurdish politicians in Paris in 2013 was a state operation and therefore openly admitted that the MIT was the basis of the murders. The Turkish intelligence service would also offer incentives to encourage bounty hunters to take prisoner or even kill someone on the black list. As far as the Flemish interest is concerned, this is a gross violation of the sovereignty of European countries and yet another proof that Turkey does not want or cannot be an ally, both in NATO and in the capacity of the EU candidate country. It is also inconceivable that Belgium and, by extension, the European Union should continue to treat Turkey with velvet gloves. The list of violations of human rights by the Turkish regime is only valid. I am thinking of the many journalists and opponents of the Erdogan regime who are in prison in Turkey, the permanent occupation of part of Cyprus, illegal gas drilling, support for Azerbaijan's war crimes in Nagorno-Karabakh, not least through the Turkish jihadist mercenary militias, not to mention the outright blackmail policy at the European external borders, war crimes against the Kurds in the past and, now openly, the regime's statement on the murder of Kurds on European territory... It is hard to understand that Belgium and the EU have still not learned any lessons from this. We therefore call in the motion for a resolution for Turkey to be condemned at European level and for all accession negotiations between the EU and Turkey to be stopped forever.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u117	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u118	Yes 79 Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 126 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u119	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 28 April 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 28 April 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 117/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Marianne Verhaert. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 117/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Marianne Verhaert. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, arms legislation is a federal law which must be applied in the same way everywhere. At local level, the implementation of this legislation is in the hands of the provincial governors acting as a federal official. In this capacity, they must apply the arms law and implementing decisions consistently in accordance with the directives of the Minister of Justice and have no room to pursue their own policies. However, the practice is different. The interpretation of the arms legislation by the provincial governors results in sports and recreational shooters being in a situation of legal uncertainty and facing unjustified seizure or possible prosecution for alleged possession of prohibited weapons. I'm declaring myself. For example, a weapon falls under the category of prohibited weapons if it can be shortened by a folding flask, a sliding flask or a flask which can be removed without instruments. When that flask is secured, the weapon does not fall within the category of prohibited weapons. However, in practice there has already been seizure when the flask was secured, i.e. without a legal basis. The second example can be found in limiting the capacity of the charger of a gun caliber.22 to five cartridges. This is requested by the provincial governor to the sports federations, whereas there is actually no legal framework for this. The provincial governor then asks for a declaration on honour to sign that the loader capacity is limited. It is a very technical matter, but my motion asks the government to clearly inform the provincial governors that the arms law as federal legislation cannot be subject to the personal interpretation of the governors. I would also ask her to draw up a letter to clarify the possession of weapons which used to have a collapsible flask and the weapons with a loader capacity of more than five cartridges. I also ask for the necessary steps to be taken to return illegally seized weapons to the rightful owners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u121	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u122	Yes 103 Yes No. [[29]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u123	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u124	Yes 108 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 133 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1948/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1948/4) Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] [[)]] Reason for abstinence? (No)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u125	Vote on Amendment No 10 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 2/1(n). (1911/8) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 2/1(n). (1911/8) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u126	Yes 56 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 of Sofie Merckx to Article 7. (1911/8) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Sofie Merckx on Article 7. (1911/8) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u127	Yes 51 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck to Article 7. (1911/8) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck on article 7. (1911/8) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u128	Yes 56 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u129	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u130	Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1911/9) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1911/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u131	Vote on Amendment No 27 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to insert a recital A/1(n). (1861/6) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to insert recital A/1(n). (1861/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u132	Yes [[37]] Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No 37 by Sophie Rohonyi cs to insert a recital A/1(n). (1861/6) Vote on Amendment No 37 by Sophie Rohonyi cs to insert recital A/1(n). (1861/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u133	Yes [[35]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No 38 by Sophie Rohonyi cs to insert a recital A/2(n). (1861/6) Vote on Amendment No 38 by Sophie Rohonyi cs to insert recital A/2(n). (1861/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u134	Yes [[35]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 28 by Sophie Rohonyi cs at the request 1. (1861/6) Vote on Amendment No 28 from Sophie Rohonyi cs on request 1. (1861/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u135	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 39 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 29 by Sophie Rohonyi cs on request 2. (1861/6) Vote on Amendment No 29 from Sophie Rohonyi cs on request 2. (1861/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u136	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 39 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 30 by Sophie Rohonyi cs on request 3. (1861/6) Vote on Amendment No 30 from Sophie Rohonyi cs on request 3. (1861/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u137	Yes [[35]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 31 by Sophie Rohonyi cs to insert a request 3/1(n). (1861/6) Vote on Amendment No 31 from Sophie Rohonyi cs to insert a request 3/1(n). (1861/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u138	Yes [[18]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 39 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No 32 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert a request 3/2(n). (1861/6) Vote on Amendment No 32 from Catherine Fonck cs to insert a request 3/2(n). (1861/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u139	Yes [[18]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 39 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 33 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert a request 3/3(n). (1861/6) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert a request 3/3(n). (1861/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u140	Yes 36 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 39 by Catherine Fonck cs on request 4. (1861/6) Vote on Amendment No 39 from Catherine Fonck cs on request 4. (1861/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u141	Yes 36 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 34 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert a request 6/1(n). (1861/6) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert a request 6/1(n). (1861/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u142	Yes 36 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 35 by Catherine Fonck cs at request 8. (1861/6) Vote on Amendment No 35 from Catherine Fonck cs on request 8. (1861/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u143	Yes [[55]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 36 by Sophie Rohonyi cs to insert a request 15(n). (1861/6) Vote on Amendment No 36 by Sophie Rohonyi cs to insert a request 15(n). (1861/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u144	Yes [[37]] Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u145	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u146	Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1861/7) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1861/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u147	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Erik Gilissen to insert a recital L(n). (1947/3) Vote on Amendment No. 1 by Erik Gilissen to insert a recital L(n). (1947/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u148	Yes [[38]] Yes No. 100 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Erik Gilissen to insert recital M (n). (1947/3) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Erik Gilissen to insert a recital M(n). (1947/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u149	Yes [[37]] Yes No. 100 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u150	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Erik Gilissen to insert a request 5(n). (1947/3) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Erik Gilissen to insert a request 5(n). (1947/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u151	Yes [[38]] Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Erik Gilissen to insert an application 6(n). (1947/3) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Erik Gilissen to insert a request 6(n). (1947/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u152	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 100 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u153	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u154	Yes 88 Yes No. [[39]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1947/4) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1947/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u155	Mrs Merckx was wrong about this vote. She wanted to vote for abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u156	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u157	Vote on Amendment No 15 by Peter Buysrogge cs to dismiss recital I. (1222/6) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Peter Buysrogge cs to delete Recital I. (1222/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u158	Yes 36 Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u159	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u160	Yes 98 Yes No. [[20]] No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 135 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1222/7) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1222/7) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u161	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u162	Yes 88 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 49 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (985/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (985/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u163	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Pieter De Spiegeleer cs on article 3. (1769/8) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Pieter De Spiegeleer cs to Article 3. (1769/8) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u164	Yes [[18]] Yes No. [[120]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Pieter De Spiegeleer cs on article 4. (1769/8) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Pieter De Spiegeleer cs to Article 4. (1769/8) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u165	Yes [[18]] Yes No. [[120]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u166	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u167	Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1769/9) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1769/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u168	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u169	Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1876/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1876/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u170	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u171	Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1877/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1877/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u172	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u173	Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1922/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1922/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip102x.u174	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 12 May 2021 at 10 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Wednesday, May 12, 2021 at 10 a.m.
