ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u1	We are holding a hearing today on the Putting Data project at the Center. We have already heard the Secretary of State in that context. Today is Mr Robben's turn. An Integral and Brief Report is being prepared for this meeting. Mr Robben has a lot of slides, so we can start immediately. I am happy to give you the floor. Afterwards, of course, there is room for Members to ask questions and hold a debate on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u2	Madam President, thank you for the invitation. I will stick to the speaking time provided for the introduction, and I have put a lot of things on slides to clarify the details. You know that for over 30 years I have been developing information systems in the government, with a view to security and privacy. First of all, I would like to explain what vision we have here and then to indicate what functions I have. Then I will talk about two important institutions that I have been allowed to launch, the Crossroads Bank of Social Security and the eHealth platform. I will also mention how we are trying to achieve the balance that I will be talking about in the vision. The Information Security Committee will also be briefed. If there are any other themes you'd like to see dealt with, I'll have the slides ready for that. The vision I have always used is that there are different fundamental rights in the Constitution and in general. There is a right to privacy, social protection, quality health care and a fair trial, among other things. There is no hierarchy between these fundamental rights, so it is important to achieve them all in a good balance. I can give you plenty of examples of this, including from the fight against COOVID-19. There is always a need to strike a balance between health care and a good evolution of public health on the one hand and aspects such as privacy and data protection on the other. This means, when we create information systems to properly support other fundamental rights, that action must be taken from the outset. In the GDPR this is called data protection by design and by default, so that one does have the advantages and not the disadvantages. Preventive measures must therefore be taken, because problems are best avoided. In addition, it is necessary to monitor, monitor and ensure that these measures are applied correctly. These principles have been included in the GDPR in recent years. Parliament approved it in 1990 at the start of the Crossroads Bank of Social Security, which already contains all these measures. Now there are data protection officers, DPOs, provided. In the social sector, this has been the case since 1990, when we started with these systems. Such matters can therefore be found in the current texts. How have we applied this in the social sector and in the health sector? We have up to decentralised data storage, so no large central databases with personal data. The data remains with the social security institutions and remains with the care providers. Only when necessary will the data be exchanged in a secure manner. Before the information can be exchanged, an independent body, which has been in existence since 1990, has been multidisciplinaryly composed and appointed by Parliament, in order to determine in advance whether the exchange is relevant, serves legitimate objectives, is proportionate and can be achieved in a safe manner. I can give many examples of this. A doctor who wants to be able to treat the patient in a quality manner must obviously have information on the patient's previous state of health, but doctors who do not have a care relationship with that patient should not be able to handle that data. Social security institutions should be able to ensure that derived rights are granted. A person who is entitled to a disability benefit and is therefore entitled to a social tariff for gas, electricity, water and public transport would like to receive these rights automatically, not by having to beg numerous papers from all those authorities. However, those authorities which grant derived rights, such as a gas or electricity supplier, should not know in detail what this social status is. They just need to know if that person is entitled to that social rate or not. Those considerations of what is necessary and relevant and what should not be possible shall be made by the Multidisciplinary Information Security Committee. It is important that this is multidisciplinary, as both the subject matter and the basic principles of data protection and best also some ICT and information security must be known. Organisational or ICT technical measures can also be taken to protect this well, without the benefits, without restricting added values in an unnecessary way. Both the Crossroads Bank of Social Security and the eHealth platform are not actually databases themselves. They are clearing houses that ensure that the conditions are met in the concrete exchange of data after the authorisation of the information security committee. The method for that approach is risk analysis. We need to look at what could go wrong, what should be avoided and how to manage those risks properly. Now, as a data privacy impact assessment, there is a method or a means to do such risk management. How far do we go in formal legislation, in detail, in clarifying a number of issues? It is, of course, very important that it is sufficiently precise, transparent and predictable what can and may be done with data. When people make data available, whether in the public or private sector, they need to know what will happen to it. On the other hand, regulation is difficult to change. It's been evolving a lot lately. So if a very detailed regulation is designed, then there is a risk that technological and social evolutions will be unnecessarily slowed down. I will be able to give you some examples of this if I so wish. The same is happening now with the corona crisis. If Sciensano builds a database of the test results and cluster control and contact research are among the objectives, and at a certain point one comes into a situation where certain tests do not carry out rapid tests or self-tests through the laboratories while there is regulation that the collection takes place through the laboratories, then you are stuck. So the question is what you put in the formal regulation. How detailed should it be? What operational matters can be left to implementing measures? The next point is very important for the entire information system, both in its development and in its operation. There are a number of high principles. One is that there is a separation of functions. It is never a good thing that the person who develops a system also makes that same system operational. Functions need to be separated, in all organisations. Despite the fact that I run some, that is a very important principle. I can also explain that. On a website I wrote that in detail. You can read that there, but in summary I would like to say that four balances must be sought as far as I am concerned. Firstly, a balance between the different fundamental rights. Secondly, how do I have the added value and the risks? Thirdly, how do I make things transparent and predictable in sufficiently precise regulation, but do I avoid that scientific, socio-economic or technological evolutions cannot be used to make things evolve? Finally, a fourth point, which I have addressed a little less so far, is the accountability of the controller versus legal certainty. It is clear that when health data are exchanged between healthcare actors, this is best quantified. There is no doctor who will know whether to use an elliptic curve cipher algorithm or an RSA algorithm and whether this encryption should be 1024 bits or 2048 bits to be safe. If we do not allow specialists in the Information Security Committee to check what is safe enough and offers these services, we risk, because the clearing agent has the responsibility if something goes wrong, if it has fear and does not share data. And that's not good either. When I go to a doctor, he takes blood and sends me to a rheumatologist, I like that rheumatologist to have the results of the blood test immediately. That exchange must be possible safely. It is therefore a good thing that doctors know that if they use that system in that way, it is correct and safe. That is the balance we are trying to find in everything we do. That's not always easy. The Information Security Committee also has a very important role to play in this. The instruments to do so, as I said, are as follows. There is the method of risk management. There is an assessment of the data protection effect. Preventive measures, e.g. non-central storage but only, where necessary, the exchange of data in a safe manner, have been introduced. Transparency can be regulated, but can also be done in many other ways, and I will give examples of this later. Surely there must be a multidisciplinary approach. Also very important, all the institutions that I have been allowed to start are all managed by representatives of the data subjects, by the people about whom data is exchanged. At the Crossroads Bank of Social Security, these are representatives of employees, self-employed persons and companies. At eHealth, these are representatives of health insurance funds, health care providers and health care institutions. They determine what can be exchanged in which cases and have a permanent control over them. Those are system measures, system safeguards, no matter who's in charge. It is very important that there is co-management of stakeholders in the design of the systems, in which case the balance will be well monitored. That was the vision. I studied law, ICT and computer auditing. I just happened to be in public service because of a final work I did as a student. That final work was about the idea of the Crossroads Bank Social Security, with which I won a scientific prize. As a result, I have been asked to work out that concept, which I have also done since 1990. A number of things depend on that, such as being part of the User Committee and that's more. It's connected to that job. In 2008, I was asked to do the same in the health sector. It says in the regulations that the leading civil servant of the Crossroads Social Security Bank also coordinates the eHealth platform. To give you an idea, the Crossroads Social Security Bank is managed by about 85 people. For the eHealth platform, that's about 40. These are mainly ICT users, who build systems in a safe way and organise the processes, keep them under review and optimise them before we introduce them. A third function I hold relates to the public institutions of social security, which are united in the non-profit association Smalls. That non-profit has been around since 1939. Smals is oorspronkelijk de afkorting van Société de Mécanographie pour l'application de Lois Spécials. She was founded to buy together in the time of mechanographic material. I'm making a huge leap now. When I was asked at the end of the 1980s to shape the Crossroads Bank, I found that the government was barely affected by ICTs and that there was also little authority on information management at the social security institutions. Everyone was clinging strongly to one constructor. Those were then mainframes and expensive machines with lock-in in the field of software. There was no system to develop good (...) services. You should know that in the government, especially with the FPS, when one institution provides a service to another and receives income from it, that income goes to the Treasury and not to the assets of those institutions. This does not directly promote cooperation, because one works for someone else, but gets nothing in return. We have tried several times to correct this, but it has not been possible. I have been asked whether there is no other solution, and so we started using the Smalls vzw to get to IT users on the one hand and to use shared services on the other, because shared services, including re-use of services, make it much cheaper for everyone. The law on the Crossroads Bank then contains a provision authorising public social security institutions to enter into such partnerships. The governing body of the non-profit association consisting only of public social security institutions and gradually also FPSs, is composed of top people from the different members. In 2004, I was asked to be a delegate director in view of my knowledge of ICT systems. The functions thus all relate to the same subject matter, namely the development of information systems in the social and health sectors, although they are based on the design of these systems and the development of good architectures, to the management of those who operate them. About half of the people of Smalls are permanently employed by the various public social security institutions. They also work under the substantive direction of these institutions. One of the things I thought was important was that the institutions themselves should be empowered about the principles of information management. In the social sector, information is mainly used, in the health sector, in addition to patients, it is mainly information that is used, and so it is important to think carefully about how information management can be done in an efficient way. Finally, I will address my membership of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. I have been a member of it for a long time since the Committee on the Protection of the Personal Living Area was mentioned. When it was adapted to the GDPR, I applied again for the Knowledge Centre. I was appointed there in 2019. In my candidacy I have also explicitly mentioned my other functions. I also signed the declaration on avoiding conflicts of interest. When advice is to be given by the Knowledge Centre on matters in which I am involved, I also indicate that. I would also like to point out - there has been a lot to do - that the GDPR does not prohibit a person with a civil servant's statute or a public mandate from being a member of a supervisory authority. In France, for example, in the CNIL, 20% of people are active parliamentarians. In Germany, the Bundesdatenschutzbeauftragte is a former parliamentarians. Of course, it is important to avoid conflicts of interest when exercising that function. A conflict of interest is something other than incompatibility. So much for my comments on the vision and my functions. I will go into the Crossroads Bank and the Sharing Platform for a very short time. I have always built up my speech according to the same structure. I have done the same for the other initiatives I have taken throughout my career, if that is what you wish. What are the objectives of these institutions or projects? What is the legal framework? What are the governance structures? I have indicated to you that I think it is very important that there is co-management by the data subjects. You will see that come back everywhere. I will also report on the results achieved, on how transparency is created for the data subjects, on how data formation is done in design and on how it is recognised each time. Most of the things we've been allowed to do are internationally recognized. The Crossroads Bank has received a prize from the UN and the European Commission and has been followed up in other countries, worldwide. I will explain that for two institutions. What are the objectives of the Crossroads Bank of Social Security? This is to ensure that, with respect for information security and the protection of privacy, social security institutions or the social sector, in the broadest sense, can provide efficient services to citizens and businesses with a minimum of administrative burdens and costs and with optimal processes. When we started, there were 800 paper data flows, today there are 200 electronic data flows. Three out of four were no longer needed. We have been able to avoid a lot of data transfers, because they were no longer relevant. Employers can now contact social security institutions directly through their information systems on the basis of the only-once principle. We only collect data once. This principle, which has been applied in the social sector since 1990, has, moreover, been extended to other sectors. We also have a system to provide policy support information to policy makers and researchers. The legal framework is the law of 1990. By the way, that was the first Belgian law with detailed provisions on data protection. The Belgian law, in general, dates back to 1992, but when the Crossroads Bank of Social Security was established, we included a whole package of provisions. I studied in Germany, among other things, at the Max Planck Institute. There, it is very important that, if data exchange is to be organised, we must take sound data protection and information security measures from the outset. A number of other laws or implementing acts are still applicable. You can find them all. I've already reported the KSZ's organs. The management committee is composed of representatives of the data subjects, as they are called. There is a user committee, where everything is being prepared, and control is being done by the Court of Auditors and by the government commissioner. As far as the results are concerned, I have already told you that, in other words, all paper flows are gone. There's a one-time data collection. The Federal Planning Office has calculated that this will save around €1 billion each year on unnecessary avoidable burdens, especially for the Belgian economy, but also for the institutions themselves. In other words, all exchanges, including those from employers, are carried out entirely electronically, applicable as from 2004. We counted around 1.4 billion messages by 2020. That is about the same amount of paper that is avoided. As I said, there is no centralized data storage. However, we do have a directory of referrals, which indicates where the information is about who, so that we can ensure that only institutions which have a relationship with the persons concerned can, therefore, have access to that information only to their own health insurance fund and not to other health insurance funds. That Register shall also include the information in which cases who may be consulted by whom in accordance with the decisions of the Information Security Committee. The reference directory is also used to automatically notify certain changes. For example, someone changes their address or changes their family status. This information shall be communicated automatically to all institutions where it is necessary to be aware, in order to minimise the administrative burden. I repeat that before the creation of the Crossroads Bank, someone who was entitled to a disability meeting easily went out with fifteen papers and had to beg everywhere for his social rate. Unless the data subject does not wish to do so and indicates this via opt-out, those rights are now automatically granted and automatically taken into account. I can show you that in the framework of covid, for example, many municipalities, OMCWs and regions have provided additional benefits to the long-term unemployed. We have had about a hundred such applications, all of which have been safely worked out by that system in a few weeks' time. It is therefore a network setting without central data storage. It is therefore a kind of crossroads, hence the word 'crossroad bank', which ensures that this happens correctly and also checks in advance that only the institutions which have a relationship with the person concerned can access the data only by their own sickness fund or their own unemployment institution and, moreover, only the data authorised by the Information Security Committee. The system operates on public networks with end-to-end encryption. You can also see evolution on the slide. We have been able to control the costs tremendously. Those systems are 99.9 % available. So they don't fall out. They are stabilised with a processing time of 99.9 % within two seconds. So it works incredibly fast and incredibly well. In summary, there are lower costs and burdens for everyone and fewer contacts are needed afterwards. When we introduced the multifunctional declaration, the one-off collection of wage and working time data, with the companies in 2004, there were 40% errors in the RSZ declarations that happened. We gave the control programmes to the employers in such a way that they could check the quality before passing on the data, and so it fell to 2% errors. That all means less work for everyone afterwards. The data are actually collected and can be used for many purposes, always after monitoring the Information Security Committee, but it is no longer the case that, when someone becomes unemployed or ill, the employer must provide the same historical wage information according to other legal definitions. When I started, one had to fill in a RSZ declaration with one pay concept, read 80 pages to know what was in it. Today, eleven actual components are directly passed on in the application and it is done. Those same eleven components can be used to determine the rights when someone becomes unemployed or what. They should not be re-inspired and re-interpreted as a function of different regulations, hence the administrative burden reduction of more than EUR 1 billion per year, as calculated by the Federal Planning Office. Since 2004, these factual data have not changed either. Everyone can determine their pay concept according to their regulations, but the actual components that are collected are the same. There is stability and the 220,000 employers must therefore no longer change their system permanently. They are integrated services: once an event and one gets the information. It's much faster. So people don't have to wait for their benefits and so on. These are efficiency gains, but there are also efficiency gains: social protection is improving and there is personalised service provision. I can show you in a minute. You should go to the portals we have about your career and your pension calculation: you can do simulations there. None of that existed. In terms of career breaks, people can know much more easily what the outstanding rights are and so on. There are fewer opportunities for fraud, rights are granted automatically. We can even actively look for non-take-up of certain rights. So we can help people who do not know their rights, which is of course very important for people in precarious situations. These are all examples. We work as transparent as possible. All existing data flows, as you can see in the schedule, are documented and can be found on one web page, both within the sector and from the outside for derived rights, and from outside to inside. Citizens have "you can see it going up in the schedule "a portal where they can check all their data at the social security institutions themselves and improve it if necessary, with, of course, proper authentication. I was also involved in the development of the electronic identity card in 2000. The electronic identity card is an appropriate way of ensuring that citizens have access to their data. The same applies to companies. As I said, we have paid enormous attention to data protection from the outset. After my law and IT studies, I had a course on computer auditing and information security, which was one of my first training courses. We have always put enormous emphasis on data protection from the outset, but not from an ivory tower. Security and information security cannot be organised from an ivory tower, which must be done on the field. The weakest factor is man. We have always made a huge effort, on the basis of international standards, to ensure that action has been taken in many areas by identifying information security consultants in the institutions, by creating awareness in the institutions. This applies both to physical security, data centre security and so on, as well as to more logical security, such as the development of applications and so on. Safety is not only about confidentiality, but also about availability, because the systems will only end up for an important period of time, about integrity, because the data cannot be changed unlawfully, and about non-repudiation, because after that we must not see that someone denies doing anything. All that stuff's in there. We've always done that on the basis of older sets of standards. The current set of standards is ISO 27000. That is always with a set of measures. I cannot stress that enough. There should be structural measures, e.g. no central data storage and prior authorisation. There should be organisational measures, for example an information security consultant who keeps an eye on all institutions and creates awareness about the importance of complying with the measures. We can take as many technical measures as we want, if everyone keeps their password on their screen, the system is not safe. There must be ICT technical measures and personnel-related measures. When people leave the service, they may not retain their access rights. One is weak as one's weakest link and must be dealt with in an integrated way. Personal data are only used for purposes that are permitted by the decisions of the Information Security Committee - I will come back to that later - with very sound systems of access control. It's all logged. In a well-organised electronic information system, it is much better to carry out preventive and ex-post control over who has seen what, than with a paper system. You should be walking around in a big hospital. This has a paper archive that is only accessible to the competent staff, but it is not so difficult to get in there. If you do that in an electronic environment, you leave traces everywhere. We had a doctor who had a double role in a hospital in West Flanders. He worked in the hospital in the morning and in the afternoon for an insurance company. From his role as an expert for an insurance company, he tried to access a patient file. That is, of course, established, because there is a log of it. He was, of course, punished and that evidence was not taken into account. This can be done much better in a well-organised electronic environment. Since the data is no longer always requested from the people, it is important that when they are used to make a decision, so do the people. Therefore, prior to the regulation on the justification of administrative acts, there was also provision in the Cross Point Banking Act for information to be communicated to be used. There must be an internal information security service and right of access. All this has been decided since 1990 and these are all principles that came back 25 years later in the GDPR. You can read those minimum safety standards we have. Each year, each social security institution has been required to complete a checklist for 25 years and identify the minimum safety standards that are respected and which are not and are not sent to the Information Security Committee. That's hugely responsive. If that is misunderstood, it is falsehood in writings, especially when it turns out that this measure would not have been taken afterwards. So it's an annual self-assessment. That has to be reported. Those institutions where there are problems are being coached to take those measures. I am going to hold wood, we have billions of data exchanges, but we have very few complaints and it is very transparent for the people. That information security policy can also be found on the website. We have also had several international recognitions for these matters. The same principle applies to the eHealth platform. In 2008, based on experience in the social sector and after we had a recognition of the UN, we were asked to do the same in health care. In the social sector, cooperation is mandatory. In the health sector, I have suggested that this should not be made mandatory, but to work on the basis of added value. There are 170,000 care providers. They're all very autonomous. I didn't think it would make sense to say you need to use a platform. Make sure the platform is secure and show that it has added value. We had 18 billion data exchanges last year. This will, of course, improve the quality and continuity of healthcare and patient safety. It also simplifies administrative formalities. The principle is that a care provider only has access to data about a patient if he has a care relationship with the patient. The patient himself decides who he has a care relationship with. On the basis of the status, as a doctor, pharmacist, physiotherapist, it is determined what type of data one may see. A patient may exclude healthcare providers from access. Of course, it only happens if a patient has given his informed consent to the data. There are 9.7 million people today who have done so and therefore have confidence in the system. Again, that is not imposed. It's an organically grown system. Let me give you two examples of what this leads to. When my GP prescribed me a blood test 10 years ago and passed me on to a hospital for a gastroscopy or gastric examination, at the next consultation she was first working on her computer for 10 minutes, first to type in a password and then in the results server of the Medical Center for Family Doctors (MCH) in Leuven to look up the results of my blood tests, then with another code or device to ask for access to the results server of UZ Gasthuisberg to see the results of my guestrosscopy and look for where it was exactly, because that was obviously a different system. There were then 5 minutes left for me. Today, she only has to put her electronic identity card in the system once, gives her the PIN code and has an agenda of which patients she will see that day. By the time that patient arrives, she'll have the documents safely on her screen. She needs 1 minute to access the files and therefore has 14 minutes left for the patient. That is a first example. If she pricks blood today and sends me to a rheumatologist, where I have an appointment two days later, that rheumatologist will have instant access to the relevant data. This applies only to those care providers who have a care relationship with the patient. What is the legal framework there? The Act of 21 August 2008 contains a number of binding deliberations of the Information Security Committee (IVC). After all, a number of things need to be recorded, such as: how is a care relationship proven? What does the access matrix look like? Who gets access to what? That is once again specialist work, work of people who know the subject matter. I'm not a doctor, so I can't judge whether it's relevant that my ophthalmologist knows that I have an ulcer. The multidisciplinary nature and the fact that the regulations are drawn up by a multidisciplinary team are therefore important. You can read all that on the website. Once again, this is a management body composed of representatives of the data subjects. There's control by a Court of Auditors and math commissioners. You can see where we are. If a patient comes to a doctor with whom he has a care relationship, the doctor can request the relevant medical history via a Summarised Electronic Health Record. That doctor will know what medication that patient is taking so that he doesn't prescribe medication that is incompatible with other medications. If a patient has experienced a negative effect of medication in the past, the doctor knows that he should not re-prescription the same medicine. This is very topical with the vaccinations today. The doctor has access to the results in the labs, can send out electronic referral letters, can make electronic regulations and also has support systems. The data is structured. It used to be in free text. Supportive knowledge systems can be unleashed. If the doctor wants to prescribe a medicine to the patient, but his file shows a counter-indication, or if the patient has had a bad reaction to that type of medicine in the past, with that active substance, a pop-up appears. These systems are also supported in the supportive care process, for example at the administrative level. In the case of a computerized general practitioner, you no longer go outside with a piece of paper that you must bring in to the sickness fund to get your money refunded. A report will automatically be sent when you go to a watch doctor to the holder of your global medical file. The doctors no longer have to fill out a hundred different registers in certain situations and everything is updated automatically. 86.4% of people have given their consent. Last year, 18 billion data were exchanged. Almost all general practitioners use the system, with a very safe end-to-end rating. We are also gradually implementing quality criteria for information systems for hospitals. There is transparency there too. All services of the entire platform are documented. In the meantime, the citizen, the patient, also has access to a great deal of information. You put your electronic identity card once into the system and you can have access to your own summary record, your medication schedule, the state of vaccination administration. You can complete declarations of organ donation and follow up the systems with the sickness funds. All this can be done from a portal, but without centralisation of data and with proper control. The care providers also have a lot of services available there, a few hundred of them. As mentioned above, this can only be done with informed consent, only between people who have a care relationship with a patient and only according to the access matrix. I will not go into too much detail, if you would like more information, then I can give it to you. What we mainly do in the eHealth platform, with 35 people, is to build basic services to ensure that that is done safely. We do not make software for end users such as GPs and hospitals and we do not have data in central management, but we ensure that access control, end-to-end encryption, electronic signing and electronic dating systems are available. If that's what you want, I can explain it further. There is also a reference directory and therefore no central data storage. How does that work? I live in Leuven, go to the coast and get a health problem there. I then go to a general practitioner or emergency department and that care provider or care institution can then look where there are data available about me. One can then get it directly there. Where's the data? There are 4 hospital networks in Belgium and each network manages a referral directory indicating at which hospitals in that network information about a particular patient is available. It also indicates which clinical lab is involved. We did that in two steps. In fact, we have a directory of references to the repertoire of references. If I'm in Ostend and a doctor wants to know where relevant data are available to treat me properly, he'll end up with eHealth. We will then report that the patient's data is in the Leuven hospital network. The doctor can then go directly to the hospital network of Leuven. Why are we working in two steps? We also did not want there to be any central indication of a patient's pathology. The hospital in Melsbroek treats only MS patients and the hospital in Kortenberg only psychiatric patients. If we ourselves were to refer directly to the hospital, something could be deduced from that. We did not want that, so the system works in two steps, two steps. The reference to the hospital concerned is made under the responsibility of a hospital that manages the network and the doctors. We only have an indication that someone is known in the network around Leuven, but not whether that is in Melsbroek or in Kortenberg. About the vaults, then. There are sumEHR, electronic health records, summaries of the first line. Hospital information systems are available 24/7. The information systems of the general practitioners are not. A system had to be created where the summary of the primary care files was kept in a safe manner. It's in the vaults. We even got a patent for one of those vaults, which run in cloud environments, for security. Vitalink can be compared to a bank safe where two keys are needed to get in. If you don't have those two keys, you won't get there. One key is in the hands of the eHealth platform. This is only given if we have checked whether it is a care provider who has a care relationship with the patient and the patient has agreed to data sharing. The second key is in the hands of an association of patient organisations and care providers, in order to prevent the government from being able to access the data without the consent of the person concerned. So there is a lot of safety there too. Finally, I will talk about the Information Security Committee. I hear a lot about that, I read a lot about it, and I think there are a lot of misunderstandings about that. You should know that the Information Security Committee's concept already existed in 1990. I mentioned it earlier, and I have been trained in part in Germany, and there we attach great importance to such fundamental rights, also because of the past. When we built up the Crossroads Bank of Social Security, I said from the beginning that if we share data, we must also ensure that there is preventive control. This is about a fundamental right. At the end of the 1980s there was an Advisory Committee on the Protection of the Personal Living Area in Belgium. It depended on the executive and fell under the Ministry of Justice. It consisted mainly of a number of professors emeriti, especially legally trained, not multidisciplinary. Those who wrote out the Crossroads Banking Act, a man or three or four, thought it was about fundamental rights and that it should be a body that belonged to Parliament. In the 1990 Crossroads Banking Act, the Advisory Commission for the Protection of the Privacy of the Executive Authority is placed with Parliament. The Monitoring Committee was then set up to prevent who was allowed to exchange information with whom, for what purposes, only those necessary for those purposes, and only safe, with appropriate security measures. I speak 1990. If you see that now, those are the same principles as those in the GDPR. I have recently read a new draft regulation of the European Union, which deals with the re-use of data: one chooses similar systems in each country. When the GDPR arrived, it was clear that the Monitoring Committee, later sectoral social security committee, had a formal function in addition to allowing and regulating the exchange of information. They shall organise information security training courses for those information security consultants. But it also had an advisory, a complaints handling and controlling function. With the GDPR, it was clear that the advisory function, the controlling function and the complaint-handling function could not remain with a body that also authorised the exchange of data. Therefore, in accordance with the GDPR, all these advisory, control and complaint handling tasks were transferred to the Data Protection Authority, which is also responsible for the social and health sectors, there is no discussion about this. The Information Security Committee is therefore not a supervisory authority within the meaning of the GDPR. The GDPR or the General Data Protection Regulation now allows Member States to take additional data protection measures. This is stated in Article 6 for data in general. This is also mentioned in Article 9 for sensitive data, including health data. It clearly states that Member States may maintain or introduce more specific provisions or impose additional conditions. What it includes is that data can only be exchanged in the social sector and in the health sector if it has been verified in advance that the exchange is relevant, that there are legitimate purposes, that the exchange is proportionate and that it is safe. The Information Security Committee therefore determines the conditions under which such data shall be exchanged. All advisory and sanctioning tasks have been assigned to the GBA. There remain therefore two tasks: the granting of exchange powers and the promotion of information security. I would just like to clarify what the Information Security Committee cannot do. The Information Security Committee shall not lay down any purpose or legal basis for which a person may process data. It can't do that. Thus, if, for example, the RVA needs to know, in order to give someone entitlement to unemployment benefit, whether the person concerned is not at work and needs data for the RSZ, it will have to be a regulation applicable to the RVA that allows the RVA to process that data. The purposes of such processing should be regulated. The RSZ should also have a regulatory framework setting out the purposes for which such data may be processed. However, if the RVA needs data available from the RSZ for its purposes, it can retrieve them from the RSZ according to the only-once principle. It is that transaction that is regulated by the Information Security Committee. What's it going to be? Does the institution that needs the data have a legal basis? Does the institution that can provide the data have a legal basis? Is the data proportionate to the legal basis and to the performance of the assignments of the receiving institution? Is the exchange secure? That's what the committee does, no more and no less than that. Of course, these are binding measures. Where data are exchanged, those conditions must be met. I will now give you a recent example to show that it is sometimes better to have this than the so-called informed consent of the person concerned. About two years ago, we received a question about people who are older and who want to do some financial planning. For advice, these people go to a bank, financial institution or insurance institution. Those people should ask for their information in the pension database, where they have their legal and supplementary pension rights, and then submit them to the bank, so that the bank can form an idea of the income that the person will have if he is retired later and how much can possibly be passed on to the children. Instead, the financial institutions asked whether they could access certain parts of that data themselves, of course with the consent of the data subject. Then there are two possibilities. One possibility is that every banking institution and insurance institution will decide in fine print what they will do with that data. I wonder how many people read those letters. Another possibility is to create a binding legal framework around it, so if a bank requests that data, it can only use it for that purpose and for nothing else. If the data subject asks for advice from three banks, but remains only with one bank customer, then the other banks must immediately delete those data, they may use that information for nothing else. That condition cannot be waived. The banks should not therefore try to record in the fine print, in a kind of accession contract, on which the potential customer clicks, that they are going to do other business with that information. Well, I think it is much better to have a system of binding debate in such a situation, from which there can be no deviation. The data subject still decides which bank he may or may not allow the data to be retrieved from, by indicating a tick. If that check is indicated, then that arrangement, no other, certainly not something any bank can do its business with. I have thus explained the role of the regulation on the IVC. If the IVC takes a debate which is contrary to a higher standard of law or which the GBA considers to be incorrect, the GBA may ask for that discussion to be amended. The amended opinion should then be submitted to the GBA for an opinion. That way it's settled. When problems arise, I think it is right that this means and channel should be used. Finally, in December, a proposal was presented by the European Parliament and the European Council on data governance for data re-use. It is now recommended that each country, possibly even sectorally, should make such an institution. It also regularly asks whether the decisions of the Information Security Committee are unconstitutional. An appeal against the eHealth Act was brought before the Constitutional Court in 2010. It was not the means of the then sectoral committee that was discussed, but the delegation of powers, among other things to a number of bodies. It has been clearly stated that this was not contrary to the Constitution and that those provisions were sufficiently precise. One more case. I have made a short decision. I am certainly prepared to discuss other matters as well if you have any questions. There's gotta be something else I can do. How does Parliament see the role and mission of the Data Protection Authority? Is that a body dealing with one fundamental right, in particular the fundamental right to data protection, or is that a body seeking balance between the different fundamental rights, as I indicated at the beginning? In any case, I think it is important that it is a collegial body, with a unity of vision. Today, the positions of the various bodies are not always coherent. If that vision of balance is shared, I think I can help. If that vision is not shared, then I am indeed not the right person in the right place. I have indicated that the IVC, apart from the GBA, has an important function. The IVC is made up of people designated by Parliament. Those are doctors, lawyers and ICTs. We are preparing dossiers for this, but I do not have the right to vote. There are many other challenges ahead of us. I have already listed a number here, such as internet of things, wearables, self-driving cars, big data, artificial intelligence and decentralised autonomous organisations that work algorithmically and act in relation to each other in an internet environment. Those are the real challenges for me. These are all areas where there is enormous potential, but also huge risks and where it is found that a number of digital giants have a huge preponderance, take little account of local aspirations and where classic national regulations and national institutions will no longer suffice. If you ask me, the GDPR has one big problem. That's what I said before. It imposes a uniform data protection regime in Europe but does not provide for a European enforcement body. There is no European privacy committee. There is a privacy committee with 27 presidents and it is known that these matters are under less strict control in certain countries: in those countries, companies will establish their headquarters. This is much more than the right to privacy. The right to human dignity, freedom of expression, discrimination, clear liability regimes and fair trials are also at stake here. In my opinion, there is still a lot of work to be done to achieve technology-neutral, sustainable regulation with system approaches. I gave you examples of how we did it in the social sector and in health care. It is precisely in these areas that system approaches are indispensable. System safeguards are needed, as we are managed by bodies with representatives of the data subjects, and with emphasis on design approach. I hope I haven't talked too long, but you already have an overview. I shall also be happy to deal with additional matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u3	Thank you for the overview, which went beyond the subject for which we had asked you. When asking the question, I would remind you that it is not intended to talk today about the functioning or role of the GBA. In this context, the obligation of confidentiality applies, in view of the fact that it is always about personal matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u4	Madam President, I too would like to thank Mr Robben. I take the recommendation to stay away from the problem of the GBA to heart, as the committee is still waiting for opinions on this matter. Mr Robben, I am impressed; there is even too much information. There were incredibly many data provided, which was actually the question, especially because of French-speaking committee members. I'm like you, a lawyer, a multidisciplinary one, but not a computer scientist. You will forgive me if I ask too trivial a question. First of all, I would like to thank you for what you have meant for the country and the architecture of the government databases, which many abroad praise you and us for. This is to a large extent due to you, and that is your merit, which I would certainly like to emphasise in a preliminary manner. It is appropriate to do so. I return to the subject and refine your multiple slides. What are we here for today? Everything starts with an article on March 10th this year in Le Soir, you probably not unknown, about the plans to create a kind of electronic crossroads where all the large government databases would be linked I would stress "would". As a result, one could do some sort of data profiling. Small and you as CEO would be the initiators. The project would be secret and not covered by a legal framework. In the meantime, we know a little bit more, especially because Smalls himself has responded. The project does exist and is not secret. There is indeed a legal framework. That legal framework is the law of 15 August 2012. It has objectives other than those stated in the newspaper, namely the only-once principle imposed by Europe, that citizens have to transfer data only once to the government and that data already available is exploited and reused to the maximum extent possible. Meanwhile, this committee has received a detailed note from the FOD BOSA and has also heard Secretary of State Michel. That note from the FOD BOSA is a bit more technical than your slides, but of course it has brought about something. It seems that no limits on the protection of personal data have been exceeded. The fear of civil profiling has thus been convincingly suppressed by all concerned and also by Secretary of State Michel. However, the note is so technical that people are sceptical or suspicious, on the basis of which they may be misreported. Maybe those people are still hard to get out of that positioning. After all, there are some questions that are put here and there. It is up to you to answer that. In any case, I have a very specific question to ask you. Secretary of State Michel and the administrator-general of the FOD BOSA, your colleague Mr Smeets, announced at the previous hearing that a priority in the policy is the development of a unique portal where citizens could check who, when, what data entered, requested, exchanged, processed in which government database. You're a crack in your trade. When do you consider it practically feasible to get that portal fully operational? That is a very specific question, in line with the problem. There is, of course, a discussion that has shown a line between what I dare to call the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking vivaldists. Soon they will explain that themselves, I think. During the debate you regularly wear a different hat. These different hats are not in themselves the problem, but perhaps the changement des caquettes, to put it in those terms. You're a valued writer of certain legal texts. You are a member of an important advisory body for Parliament. You're a leading official. As CEO, you are also involved in one of the most important IT service providers. That is why the French speakers seem to have no confidence in you, whereas trust in information sharing is very important. For the Dutch-speaking vivaldists, the question is whether or not the message, to what extent the lack of trust, with related questions and demands, is justified. I believe that this should be clarified. These are my first questions. I'll study your slides carefully. I was sorry that we were not able to do so in advance, but we will certainly take the opportunity. Above all, I would like to ask you to answer questions that can be of confidence. We respect the work you do, but at the moment there is absolutely a lack of trust. I would also like to know how you see the development of this unique portal, which is often referred to. Thank you for your explanation, which is also appreciated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u5	Madam Chair, Mr. Robben, thank you for your very helpful briefing. But unless I'm mistaken, he's not talking about the subject we're here for today. You took advantage of this hearing to legitimize some of your functions, including some of the things you were accused of in terms of illegal data processing or the illegal substitution of the CSI in Parliament. You say the CSI has to decide what data can be transmitted, but I think it has to be regulated by law; and it is not the CSI that makes the law; it is Parliament. You have legitimized your presence in ODA by saying that you are not in conflict of interest because, when there are matters that concern you, you withdraw from the deliberations. Besides, I'd like to know if since you've been there, you've always been away from this kind of meeting. But the question here is your very presence in ODA. You say explicitly: "ODA does not prohibit having public mandates." Excuse me, but I feel like it's a counter-truth. When I read Article 38 of the APD Law, in its § 1, it is explicitly stated: "At the time of their appointment and during their term of office, the members of the board of directors of the Knowledge Centre - which is your case - and of the litigating chamber must meet the following conditions: (...) 6. not be an agent of a public service." I want you to try to justify that there is no conflict of interest because you are withdrawing from the meetings, but you should not even be at those meetings, since the law forbids you, since you are a public attorney. But these are other subjects. I hope that we will have other meetings to explore these points. Here you were invited about the Putting data at the center project. You have read like me the press, and the file of the newspaper Le Soir which put forward this draft data cross-reference, which is not legally regulated, since no law provides for it; of which no one was aware - neither Parliament nor the government. At that time, I wonder who requested to implement this project. You responded to the article in the daily LeSoir. In the press and on social media, you called this article fake news. It's a very serious accusation, a charge tinted with some nervousness perhaps. On the same day, SPF BOSA confirmed the existence of this project. I wonder what you mean by fake news because the SPF BOSA confirmed the existence of this project, while BOSA is a member of Smals and logically had to appeal to it for this IT project. So, as the managing director of Smals, were you aware of this project? The assurance you responded to surprised me. Can you confirm today that you were not aware and that Smals is not related to this project? In the denial published by the Smals after the revelation of this project, there is no allusion or infirmation of two other information published the same day and which are equally important. They concern, on the one hand, the State Security project, the amount of which has increased from 7 million to 23 million euros without any concrete result to my knowledge, unless error on my part and, on the other hand, the new ODA site for an amount of 150 000 euros, for a site called "glass window" with some PDF forms to download. I would like to hear you in relation to that. What is the amount charged by Smals to the State Security? For what benefits? Was there a call for tenders? How does Smals justify the amount of the benefit billed to ODA? As the press points out, is there not a conflict of interest between your ODA status and your position in Smals? These are the questions I wanted to ask you at this stage. Depending on your answer, I may ask additional questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u6	Thank you, Mr Robben, for your explanations, which I have largely followed from another committee, but I have heard them. I will also go back to that committee later, but I will certainly listen to your answer to my questions later. The President said that we should mainly restrict the debate to the project: Putting data at the center. I have a problem with that because I understand that your role in it is very limited. I myself heard you say on the radio that you were happy to come to Parliament to clarify a number of matters. I'm going to try to focus there, but I still have a few questions that differ from that. Then I will talk first about the Putting data project at the center. We have received a very technical note on this subject. As I understand it, this is a project where a data bank for citizens is provided. People want to give citizens the opportunity to show what information the federal government has about them. I know that there is a similar project in Flanders. To what extent can these two be compared? If so, it is even clearer for me than before. Questions have already been asked about your involvement by previous colleagues. How do you look at that? In fact, this is a kind of shift whereby we give the data more in the hands of the citizen, instead of leaving the data with the government or even with private companies. Then there's a more general question, because you've also finished in general. The discussion on this dossier teaches me that the sensitivity to privacy has increased even more. Corona obviously speeded that up. I think it is a good thing that we are talking about this. How do you look at that? Where do you see the greatest dangers in the privacy theme in our society? Do they belong to the government? You've already referred to private companies. How do you look at that? We will not talk about the functioning of the GBA, but I have heard your message clearly about the balances and interests. We will certainly discuss this later in this House when the audit of the Court of Auditors is completed. The previous speaker mentioned that you had different hats on. That is also the main reproach you are being made. What's your take on that? You rightly say that the challenges that lie ahead are artificial intelligence. I myself believe less in the self-driving car, but it is an interesting subject. We can disagree on that. Artificial intelligence certainly has to do with privacy, but there is still more to it. There are also ethical aspects. How do you look at that? How are we supposed to deal with the ethical questions? Do we have to do this in a different way? Do we have to create another organ for that? What's your vision on that? That is certainly an important aspect. Finally, I received a question about QVAX from one of our vaccination centers. I would like to take this opportunity to present it to you. The problem of bypassing the waiting list has already been mentioned. You said that is as rude as crossing an amusement park. Actually, that's pointless. I am told that it is possible for QVAX to enter the reserve list via the national register number and that there is no two-step verification. One can, for example, use the national register number of an old person and then attach his own name to it. I don't know if that's true. But if it is, it's a strange fact and it's a form of stabbing past that's more than rude. So much for my questions. I look forward to your answers. I'll definitely check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u7	Mr Robben, thank you for your briefing. I also felt it necessary for you to inform Parliament of your work. You have traced to us the role of digital in our administrative system of social security and health, the role of the CSI, as well as your presence in ODA. On the other hand, I didn't hear anything about the "Putting Data at the Center" project. Like my colleagues, I will not dwell on your presence in ODA, since it has been decided by Parliament and depends on a closed procedure. Another topic is the ITUC. Your entire career is brilliant. We are very impressed by the various projects that you have managed to achieve. However, there is legislation governing the operation of the CSI, and I have no doubt that you are applying it. Similarly, I do not think that your role in this body goes beyond the legally defined limits. However, it takes the place of Parliament. Perhaps you remain convinced that the function of the CSI is justified and that its evolution is normal. You are even telling us that the proposed revision of the GDPR should abound in this direction. At this point, I do not have the same information as you. However, I know that a complaint is pending with the European Commission. It would therefore be interesting for our country to know the outcome. However, I remain convinced that the CSI is replacing Parliament, given the absence of parliamentary debate and of a law, since this body allows data to be transmitted by operators other than those who initially collected it. Today, we are here to talk about the "Putting Data at the Center" project. So I'm going to ask you a few questions about that. We know that you are the head of the Bank-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale (BCSS), which collaborates with SPF BOSA on this project. We learned from the press that in January 2017, you mentioned the BeST Address project in the presentation of BCSS priorities and strategic directions. I would like to know if Smals is involved in this "Putting Data at the Center" project. We said you had an important role because you're the CEO of Smals. Our colleague from N-VA has just said that there is a lack of confidence on the part of the Francophone members of La Vivaldi. When I read many press articles, I see that this can be extended to citizens and civil society, since recurring concerns about the role of Smals and the ITUC, and about data protection, are expressed. My second question about Smals is the following. Do you think that Smals enjoys advantages over other companies in its relationship with the federal government? For example, when an SPF uses Smals, is it based on a specific, competitive specification that Smals responds to in the same way as other consultants and then wins the contract? Or does the fact that Smals is a state-linked LSO justify the State's failure to make specifications and launch a public procurement open to competition? Can Smals be, structurally, without ever opening up the market to competitors in the business world, a kind of subcontractor for everything that the federal government needs? As far as the Best Address project is concerned, I know, in order to be a communal representative for a long time, that it aims to integrate the data of the National Register with the urban planning data, in any case for all matters relating to the Brussels Region. I believe that the Brussels Region has not yet completed the implementation of this project. I wanted to know if the consultants working on this project came from Smals. In general, when Smals provides consultants to an SPF, is this done on the basis of a specific specification? If there are no precise specifications open to competition, how does this happen? Is there a mission letter or contract signed between the SPF and Smals? For the Putting Data at the Center project, can a SPF launch such a project without using Smals? How is Smals organized? Does it have a list of all the consultants working for it and a list of the projects on which these consultants work? If Smals has worked on the Putting Data at the Center project, does this appear in Smals data? There was a denial in the press that Smals was not in charge of the project. But it has also been reported in the press that Smals consultants may be working on this project. Could you provide us with further information on this matter? Like one of my colleagues, I regret that we did not receive your PowerPoint in advance because all the information contained in it is very interesting to understand the operation of the state and of this entire digital system. I therefore hope that it will be communicated to us. In addition, you will respond orally to our questions, but you could also complete your answers in writing. I come back to my question. Were Smals consultants working on the project today at a standstill? If so, how long? What were they doing? What amounts were invoiced by Smals to BOSA for the work performed? At his hearing, Mr. Ben Smeets explained to us that during the testing phase of the Putting Data at the Center project, it was planned to work on non-anonymized data and therefore personal data. I don't know if that was the case or not, but at some point we had to pseudonymize the data. In fact, when you pseudonymize, you process the personal data. And to process personal data, we need the opinion of the Data Protection Authority. Has an opinion been requested? You've often talked about pseudonymization of data. This is something that comes back when it comes to scientific research. In your presentation, you said that there was a support function of the latter when providing pseudonymized data for this scientific research. It was also found that in all cooperation agreements relating to screening, tracing, etc., it was envisaged that the data would be pseudonymized and retained for a very long period of time (20 or 30 years). The fact that data is pseudonymized instead of anonymized has been debated in Parliament. At some point, when the data is pseudonymized, we know that it is nevertheless possible, with certain operations, to trace and identify persons whose data have been pseudonymized. I have the impression that it is a doctrine to be convinced that it is better to have pseudonymized data than anonymized, as if scientific research would not have such relevant data if these data were anonymized instead of pseudonymized. I'd like to hear your opinion. Why is it so important to pseudonymize instead of anonymize? Does this change anything about how scientific research will be done? Since the "Putting the Data at the Center" project is quite complex and technical, I would like to know if it was possible to move forward on this project without the Smals' assistance? That is a specific question. I'll be back at the very beginning of your presentation. Like you, I'm a lawyer and a former lawyer. But I'm not a computer scientist. On the other hand, you go through these training courses, which makes your professional career impressive. You have indicated that for you there is no hierarchy between constitutional rights, and that all these rights must be combined between them. On the contrary, I have already read articles according to which the right to privacy is the basis of all other rights. I would like to obtain from you, if you have any, sources of doctrine or jurisprudence that illustrate your point. I also read this in the interview you gave on a Saturday in the newspaper L'Écho. You were photographed with a teddy bear behind you. You were at the window of your home. It was kind enough and it sent back an idea of benevolence. You also stated in this article that there was a need to combine the various constitutional rights and that the right to health could justify restrictions or violations of the right to privacy. It is really on this question of the hierarchy of constitutional rights that I would like to hear from you. We were told that you were involved in drafting legislation, intercabinets. Does this represent a large part of your working time? In your presentation, you highlighted the fact that the citizen can correct his or her data. Could you provide a little more information? How can the citizen see which administration has access to his data, but not theoretically? Can he view it on a platform? Can he view on a platform, right now, which institution or administration has had access to his data, and which ones? Can the citizen also correct the data relating to him/her in the possession of the State? I conclude with this subject; I may come back with other questions. Thanks already for all that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u8	Mr. Robben, I'm glad to meet you. I am delighted with the briefing you gave us. Perhaps it should have taken place at the beginning of the legislature with the contradictory view of the Data Protection Authority (PAD) so that the new Members could have a full look at this matter. We understand that Belgium is a pioneer in e-government. As Mr D'Haese points out, there is a process of distrust and distrust of data protection. I think the health crisis has something to do with it. I also think that, somewhere, your character, the architect you are, is also for something, because indeed, you are an out-of-standard character who has taken on an important role in the construction of database architecture in Belgium. No one denies it. This requires transparency and, in any case, explanations. In this context, I do not understand why you did not say a word about the Putting data at the center project. I think that Members and even Francophones understood at the previous meeting with Mr Smeets that this project has been in existence for many years, that it was initiated by Mr Smeets. De Croo in a digital agenda, that it has a legal basis and that the principle of the single collection of data and their re-use is quite understandable. That's not what the press said! So I don't understand how it happens that you don't get a word of it because, given your many caps, it's hard to imagine that you're not involved at any time. I would like to hear from you in a positive way about your involvement in this matter. It is legitimate and, moreover, it is the theme of our meeting. The mistrust is in fact linked, Mr Robben, to the health crisis which generates a huge collection of data. The citizen is therefore concerned today, because if Belgium was the pioneer, we are really worried about interconnection. Throughout your presentation, we have not heard much about the interconnection between databases. This is a matter of concern to the citizens and also a matter of great concern to us. I think we should be able to receive an update on the interconnection of the necessary databases and legal beacons for this purpose. I have one more question about the Information Security Committee. When you present it, we do not seem to have the same look at its role. Evidence of this is the complaint lodged with the European Commission. We will examine whether or not there is an infringement procedure and whether it is compatible with the GDPR. You did not mention that you were an advisor to the CSI. I was consulting Cumuleo very recently, and you are still – you were, at least last year – mentioned as an advisor at the CSI level. Do you confirm that you are also an advisor to the CSI? Finally, I think we can't leave this session without you explaining how you're doing. I have heard that you do not participate in the decision if there is a conflict of interest, but how do you manage all these files, what is your schedule? It's getting a little special. If you have to withdraw whenever there is a conflict of interest, how do you do it? It is a legitimate question that we are asking and that must be asked in full transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u9	Mr Robben, thank you for your very comprehensive and interesting presentation. You told us about everything except the Putting Data at the Center project. Is this a non-subject for you, or did you plan to speak about it in your answers and first use your presentation time to restore some of your truths? The questions that we were asking ourselves about this project still arise. Basically, what's the problem? Under the GDPR, this set of private, if not private, information must be manipulated for a specific, legitimate purpose and with a mandate from Parliament. Many of us have the impression that this project is not framed either by a provable legislative or administrative text, or by sufficient control of the Data Protection Authority or the Council of State. I have a few specific questions. You accused the press, in this case the newspaper Le Soir, of publishing false information and of deliberately undermining the confidence of the population. Perhaps there is an interesting substantive problem, in the sense that the "Putting data at the Center" project – as Mr. Ben Smeets of SPF BOSA to this Justice Commission – would present "high potential in terms of artificial intelligence". However, not later than last week, the European Commission issued recommendations on artificial intelligence and recalled potential drifts if these recommendations were not framed. On several occasions, the press – and not just Le Soir – revealed projects in which the plough was put before the oxen. It seems that it is often the same process. We do something because we realize that it is technically possible, and it is only after we sometimes ask ourselves the question of the legitimacy of our act. Since the beginning of the crisis, the government has been pinned several times because it provided for data processing without a legal basis and without parliamentary debate? Do you not find that what undermines the confidence of the population is to imagine and implement data processing by considering algorithmic treatments such as datamining without a legal basis, bypassing Parliament, without control of ODA or the Council of State? The CSI, you've told us a lot about what it does and what it doesn't. In the Putting Data at the Center project, what really was the role of the CSI? Could he "modify" the law if there was no legal basis to complete the project? The CSI does not make the law, as one of my colleagues said. It is striking that we are several parliamentarians, from very different ideological groups, to have the impression that the CSI is replacing Parliament. I think it's important that this be heard. What is the role of the G-Cloud Strategic Board in the Putting Data at the Center project? It is an organ which has no legal basis but which brings together all the bosses of the FPS and where it would be very surprising that this project has not been addressed. I still have a question about the articulation between BOSA and Smals. External consultants working at BOSA. Have they been recruited by Smals or by Smals member ASBl Egov? More broadly, I wonder how many consultants recruited by Egov are currently working in FPS? What is the cost? Is it possible to use Egov to benefit from the same conditions in house as if you go directly through Smals as a member? Finally, I will not talk about ODA because the President kindly asked us not to do so and because that is not the point. Since you have addressed the issue yourself, I would like to point out that it is not enough, in my view, to refrain from attending meetings to ensure that there is no conflict of interest or that the law ceases to apply. It is not because the previous Chamber would possibly be wrong in its designations that there is no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u10	Mr. Robben, they say you're everywhere. You are still demonstrating this today since you are the only one who is physically present and present on the screen. It's a first in this commission. I'd like to talk about Putting Data at the Center. Your presentation was strong, impressive and important. You'll have to take the time to read it, eat it and see what's in it. I would like to understand the mechanics that allowed this process, intellectually and materially. I confess that to this day there are still too many unknowns for me to ask the right questions today. Why are there too many questions? I have read the note sent to us by BOSA and I discover that the mandate for this project would have been formally approved on 1 January 2018 by something called Opéra. I'll tell you this was the first time I've read this. As a footnote, I see that 'opera' corresponds to the management team of the TD General Management. I didn't know that the management team of TD General had the opportunity to give a mandate to create something new. I find out. I wonder on what basis. I don't have that answer. Even more surprising, the project seems to have been presented to a steering group called "be digital" which would have been dissolved in 2019. Not only is the mandate given by the management team to a steering group whose composition is specific. In addition, it is dissolved in 2019. So it's been two years since a project continues to exist even though the steering group supposed to supervise it has been dissolved since 2019. Together, we need to look at all these safeguards that allow us to determine how we get there. In September 2018, a project was reportedly presented to a Federal Service Integrator Coordination Group. Critical questions were reportedly raised by two participating authorities. What were these critical questions? Have any answers been provided? It is said that a decision is made to reconvene at a later stage when more clarity has been made on the approach, the business case and the expected benefits. All these elements are discovered in a largely incomplete technical report, which is not available today. An architecture is presented despite this in May 2020. We're trying to answer legal questions. A demo is given in June 2020 but we don't know who. And so on. We have a series of waterfalls that finally lead us to an article in the newspaper Le Soir in March 2021. This cascade shows that there has been a whole series of items that are not available. The data are unknown to us and it is therefore impossible for us to examine them as parliamentarians and to see what was done, by whom it was controlled, when, on what basis, what were the objectives and safeguards. I therefore lack many pieces of information and I am unable, as I said in the introduction, to ask you the right questions to hope for the right answers. All this leads us to a particular sequence, the famous sequence of March 2021, where Secretary of State Michel publicly says: "There is no mandate. I ask that we stop the process." Then there are exchanges. My administration says she knew, the other says she wasn't. And one discovers, little by little, that this project was probably integrated into older logics, especially at the foot of the Only Once law of 2014, what one wanted to do through Fedit and through a whole series of things, but one also discovers that both databases Only Once, as well as Fedit, etc. does not provide a legal basis for this integrator and the choice that this data integrator must make, either to the integrator himself or to the Information Security Committee, which could still be discussed. So, today there are no legal bases to play this. I mean, "It's only a project, it's only a will, only a way to think about how to install the filter to facilitate exchanges between all this." What concerns me in my capacity as a parliamentarian is this Putting data at the Center project, as well as all these shortcomings, those questions to which I do not have an answer, which has led us to hear you today, and which will lead us to audition of other people - and which could, in similar circumstances, lead to other projects without transparency, on which there is no knowledge, of which we do not know who gives a mandate, who controls, on which bases, within what framework, with what objective and what test data. (In this case, it was the Banque-Carrefour des entreprises that was used as test data.) This is where I am uncomfortable, because I almost want, Mr Robben, to set you up a future appointment, on the one hand, to get to know your PowerPoint, and, on the other hand, to ask that all this information presented on a few lines but which we do not have, be communicated to us in order to get to know it and finally to be able to establish the clarity in this matter. You may be giving me some answers, but reports are likely to have been made in different jurisdictions. These reports are now unknown to us, unavailable, and are not presented to us. These are my difficulties! I'm telling you very sincerely today. You will no doubt give us some answers, but personally, I will ask the chairman of the committee to write in order to ask that all these reports, those data which are mentioned, as well as those which are not, be transmitted to us in order to gain full knowledge of them and to be able to analyse them in full transparency. I have no suspicion. It is only a desire to take full notice of a dossier before deciding on the method that made this dossier exist. My objective is also to avoid this method being no longer possible because it is unpleasant for the Secretary of State who seems to discover things, for the Members of Parliament who are in the same case, but also for all those who are not as well paid as us in politics and who discover many things, without the safeguards being known.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u11	Mr Robben, thank you for your very comprehensive presentation. This development was necessary, but we recognize that we feel – please excuse me for using this somewhat trivial expression – that fish have been drowned. Indeed, it is regrettable that it is only a little before noon that we really come to the subject of our meeting, namely the "Putting Data at the Center" project. I will be very brief because it seems to me that the key issues have already been raised. Members of this Parliament – I am not even talking about the Secretary of State – feel that they have a child behind their backs. It is extremely unpleasant to discover, through the press, the existence of such important projects in which Parliament has a fundamental role to play. I would also like to highlight the important role of the newspaper Le Soir. Indeed, if he had not been there, we would still be all in ignorance of this project. In summary, my questions are: Who? What? How? These questions have so far remained unanswered or partially unanswered. We would therefore like to obtain these answers today because a knowledge of what has happened may and certainly will – in any case, I hope – prevent this from happening again in the future. It may be necessary to use such procedures, but how is this justified? As a lawyer, you know that there is always a legitimate goal when it comes to data manipulation. I'm not going to go back to the role of the CSI. Many colleagues have mentioned this. It is clear that we will have to reshape, whether at the level of its membership or its missions. Others spoke of the issue of public procurement and the lack of transparency in public procurement. I would also like to ask you a slightly more precise question. We also know that the context of widespread mistrust of data processing comes in part from the pandemic situation, but also in part from the Pandemic Bill that we will have the opportunity to deal with tomorrow as a Pandemic Bill. My colleagues are not going to deny me, given the thousands of chain mail we've been receiving for weeks. The Crisis Centre had stated, at the hearings we had, that the GDPR was a hindrance - these are the words used - in the fight against the pandemic. I would like to have your opinion on this issue, which I believe is fundamental. We remain convinced that these two very important objectives, namely, the fight against the pandemic with health measures, and the protection of a number of rights and freedoms, which is another extremely important principle, are not incompatible. But probably, the Crisis Centre seems to think that this is not quite the case. I would very much like to have your opinion on this question, but also as I said, above all, I would like you to answer us in full transparency on the question of the Putting data at the center project which was unveiled by the press. Who? What? How? What control? What mandate? What progress has been made for what purpose? I think this is the very subject of this morning's meeting, almost this noon. I think it's time for you to answer us on these points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u12	Madam President, Mr Robben, thank you for your full statement. I would like to ask you two things which are not so much about Putting data at the center, but which are indirectly related to it and which may, in future, prevent this type of incident. The Information Security Committee allows, under certain conditions, the communication of personal data, in particular legitimacy, proportionality and finality. At the moment, and under the supervision of this Parliament, our right to share information in a transparent manner for the citizen. Those texts use words that are typical of lawyers. It says, for example, I quote: 'We shall proceed to a debate which will ensure transparency for the person whose data is communicated'. If we were to be transparent in this respect, and if everyone in these banks, who is responsible for supervising that Information Security Committee, had an understanding of that precisely means that, we would be farther ahead. You yourself have underlined that the Data Protection Authority can exercise a certain appeal against it within 45 days and not retroactively. That's what it is. That is, at least within the sectors that have been identified, an important focal point in this whole dossier. The legislator itself has authorised, under certain conditions, the sharing of information under the supervision of that Information Security Committee. I listened very carefully to colleagues, not just in this sitting. You have certainly seen with us, Mr Robben, that the fourth power has played a very important role in this story. I always thought this was the first power. Today I don't see the fourth power sitting on the benches, but she might be listening. We are the first power. It is strange that we depend to that extent on the information provided by the fourth power, precisely for a power where the legislator has given Parliament a very large space. The legislator, therefore Parliament, realized that this is a matter in which the executive must certainly not be given the monopoly. I've been in that executive for a while. The comparison is certainly not ironic, but when I asked Parliament to entrust the supervision of the prison system, it was because I thought Parliament would do much better than I did and much less biased. It is not so easy for a minister to admit that his prison system is not working properly. Madam President, I am now on the committee and I see how we deal with this monitoring. In particular, we are always relying on what the fourth power says. That is, of course, very interesting, but, and I also said it to the Secretary of State recently, when he was speaking to us in the Chamber, we have to deal with this in a different and much more professional way and not in this way accuse each other of all kinds of things that we hear from the press. That's crazy. Privacy does not concern the Constitutional Court. We have something to do with this, but that is truly independent. We are talking about the Committee I, the Committee P and, as far as I am concerned, the Committee J, because justice escapes any control of the legislator, and that is something that can still be discussed. But what about a Committee Privacy? I am very confident in the competence of the Committee on Justice, but not in the way we do it. You cannot do that, I cannot do that, but we must create this tradition, because we do not give the public the impression of being professional in this way. Mr Robben has been working on this for some time now, I understand. Of course, he's younger than me, but not much. The question is, in fact, how can we do that? Putting Data at the Center is an interesting point, but it is a very small part of that wide domain. I realize that there are also the Health Committee, the Crossroads Bank and the Social Affairs Committee, but everyone has been excused not to know until he reads it in the newspaper. I do not think that this is the appropriate way for a power of custody conferred on a Parliament. I will make the same statement for the prison system at another time. We have to take care of this. It is entrusted to us in a way that is thorough and professional. There must be money from the executive if it is to be necessary. At the time, I gave money from the executive for the prison system, which I remember very well, but probably not enough. (..) It is important to do so. I am deeply convinced, because this is a discussion we should not have.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u13	That's a lot of questions. I'll try to structure them. First of all, I apologize if I didn't talk directly about Putting Data at the Center, but I thought it was important that you were given the global framework. I was indeed a member of the informal body that Minister De Croo has convened around digital. A number of projects have indeed emerged from this. I don't remember being called Putting Data at the Center or anything else, but the idea behind it was to make sure that there are open data for a number of things. Those aren't personal data and it's not about profiling. They can then be used for a number of things. The second was to ensure that data can be safely exchanged within the framework outlined in the two sectors I am dealing with, but also in other sectors. I think that is a good idea, of course. It is not intended that people should give the same information x times. Nor is it intended that there should be inaccuracies and contradictions between these databases. The concept behind it is that of service integrator. You know that in 2000, after someone else had done that for a year, I was asked to put Felix on track. I tried that and then returned it. The concept of a service integrator in the other sectors according to the same principles that do not involve centralisation of data, but ensure that services are provided to citizens and businesses in an integrated way, of course, I support that. The fact that anonymous, open data are given that are used to make things possible, too. For the rest, you were able to read the note. I did not mention this in my speech because we were not at the wheel of that project. Maybe I can make a direct connection to Smalls. I explained to you why Smalls was created. Above all, we are trying to ensure that we can work properly with maximum re-use and with maximum shared services to keep costs as low as possible and to maximise the scaling impact. One of the things Smalls does is issue notebooks at the request of his members. These are framework agreements and sometimes also procurement centres. A framework agreement is an agreement which does not determine in advance how much reduction is to be made. A procurement centre is a legal system in which someone other than the one who puts the charge book in the market can also order on that charge book. By doing so jointly, there are, firstly, better conditions, given the scale effect, and secondly, we avoid that many public administrations have to do the same administrative burden to issue, evaluate and so on. All procurement centres and all framework agreements that Smalls issues and grants will be on the Smalls Board of Directors, with twenty members' representatives, including public social security institutions or FPS, and a representative of the Minister of the Budget and a representative of the Minister of Social Affairs. We do not need to know when they want to take off at such a workstation. I do not know exactly for which projects are all called on Smalls procurement centres. Any government institution listed in that charge book may take that away from it. That goes for those prices and they send those people. Smalls is not a system in which there is a central control of the content of all projects that attract people through those procurement centres or which attract framework agreements. The FOD BOSA will indeed have called on those contracts to attract consultants, but the substantive guidance is done by the FOD or by the public security institution that relies on them. As far as confidence is concerned, what Mr Geens said is quite right. Trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. I have tried to explain to you what balances we are trying to find. I would not prefer this to be the subject of a debate on essential issues on a regular basis. There is an annual report to Parliament of the Information Security Committee and previously also to the Sectoral Committee of Social Security. Perhaps that is an opportunity to talk about a number of things, not only ex-post, but also proactively. In any case, I attach great importance to trust and transparency. Let me give you an example. The first thing I did, you can check that when I received a phone call from Philippe De Backer's office in mid-April 2020 asking for a two-and-a-half week contact tracking system, a website was created that night, especially www.corona-tracking.info, because I fully realized that there was a lot to be communicated. I've been working on that a lot. Everything on that website is off my hands. These include all procedures, such as how doctors organise tests, how vaccination centres operate, how samples are taken, all regulations. I can show you a number of slides. When I was attracted or asked to do so, there was a working group of the GEES expert group. At that time, there was a proposal to transfer all of Sciensano's data with an indication of the identity of the person to an external data warehouse, to a private company, which would then make all kinds of cluster analyses. I said immediately that I can show you that this could not be done, that legal framework was necessary, that appropriate cooperation agreements had to be worked out, that this had to be proportionate, that security measures had to be put in place and that all flows had to be described in detail. This is how it happened, before the system entered into force. The cooperation agreement was not there, because unfortunately that cannot be made within a few weeks. For this reason, royal decrees were now being worked on. However, it was settled. The cooperation agreement was subsequently discussed in all parliaments. I would also like to point out that, before the GDPR, the sectoral Social Security Committee was actually set up within the Commission for the Protection of Privacy. The chairman and another member were members of the committee for the protection of privacy. There was, almost prematurely, a possibility of questioning. If there was a matter of principle, it was first submitted to the Commission for the protection of privacy. That is no longer possible because of the GDPR. It states that if one gives a particular order to a particular body, which can no longer be within the GBA. Hence the scheme described to allow for 45 days to review the system if there is a problem. Perhaps that is something that needs to be looked at, the GDPR is being re-evaluated and perhaps in that context one should also re-evaluate the place of the IVC. There is one point I strongly support. The basic principles must, of course, be laid down in laws, in regulations adopted by Parliament. However, one cannot regulate the details in laws because then one will stop useful operational matters. There must therefore be a relationship of trust, with reporting and transparency. Today all the decisions of the IVC are public, but I can imagine that it is not easy for citizens to find out what is happening in a particular situation. That's why we're creating the systems I've shown you. Citizens can then see in simple schedules where the data go in certain cases. They then have an insight into the content of the data about those who are being processed. We've been asked if a citizen can get access to logs about himself. That's not an easy question. I told you that there are 1.4 billion data exchanges in the social sector and 18 billion in the health sector. If I go to a hospital for a colonoscopy, there are 10 people who have access to that data, namely the care team inside that hospital. I may have seen one of those people, or even not, the anesthestist or someone from the nursing staff. When people can check which individual has had access to that data, they must make sure that this is understandable. After all, we must ensure that we do not lose a great deal of confidence. At the time, we gave access to a very detailed level in the social sector. An RVA inspector was physically attacked because a suspended unemployed person had established that this was the person who caught him. There too, a balance must be sought. I agree with that, but we must also ensure that there are no negative effects. It is useful to have an in-depth debate on the substance of the matter, so that there is confidence and a clear agreement can be made on what matters should be fundamentally contained in a law and what matters more in implementing measures, including possible decisions by the IVC. In this way, there will be no mistrust and no half-truths in the press. That's it for the main lines regarding Putting Data at the Center. Mr Aouasti, as you say, Opera is an internal organ of the Strategy and Support SPF. This is more precisely the management committee. BeDigital is an informal group that has met seven or eight times and consists of people gathered by Alexander De Croo to try to change Belgium in the field of digitisation in general. Of this group were some projects, including Putting data at the center. At the time, the project was not known by that name. The only operational part I've known is the Best project, which is actually an authentic source of addresses in Belgium, which do not contain personal data. The social sector also makes use of it; it is in its interest. For example, you know that some invitations to vaccination are not sent to the right addresses. The authentic source of the right addresses is therefore an extremely important tool. Since 2017 or 2018, this project has been inspired by the European Inspire Directive. It is the responsibility of each country to regulate the modalities of such arrangements. It is also used in the social sector. To my knowledge, this is the only concrete project that has been implemented in this area. About my time use, I do work a lot. You can see that on my website. But I don't have a problem with that. I'm very satisfied with what's being accomplished. I responded to that fake news because the article as it was written contained several errors. On various issues, it was completely incorrect. The contents weren't right. The involvement of Smalls was not correct, and it was certainly not the intention to profil without any form of legislation or control. In fact, the IVC has never been involved in my knowledge either, the Social Security and Health Chamber, or the Federal Government Chamber, in that project. I am also sure that if personal data were to be used there, this would be presented. As for Smalls, how do we work? I have already indicated to you what is happening in public procurement. It is stated in Article 30 of the legislation on public procurement that when a body which is fully controlled by the public authorities and which is financed by public funds at 80%, and which is 100%, the members of that body when they award contracts to that association should not be subject to any public procurement procedure. There must be no distortion of competition. A public administration or social security institution decides to do a project entirely on its own, with its own people, or decide to have a project done with the help of Smalls, or decide to turn to the market. If that service or institution turns to the market, with a notebook, Smalls should not reply to that. We never do, because that would be distortion of competition. Another provision provides that the value added provided by Smalls for its members shall not be subject to VAT. That would be a distortion of competition. That cannot be done; it cannot be done and it will not be done. Where Small calls on third parties, it should apply the rules on public procurement. That's the way the system works. I have already indicated to you that this is an operating and legal system, which is also European law. There are European Court judgments and directives on in-house regulation. As you know, that's a conversion. Public procurement rules are mainly European law and are transposed into Belgian law. So that's business that works. I repeat, you can see that everything that Smalls develops is in open source in a ReUse Catalogue. So everything we do with public funds, we offer, so that everyone can use it in private and other public institutions. We have been asked by the previous government to save 20% each year, including on ICT credits. This is only possible if we go to scale effects, cooperation and reuse. With the G-Cloud we made sure that we went from forty to four data centers, which is much less expensive. We also made sure that the monitoring could be done 24/7 by a team of fifteen employees, being three teams of three employees who monitor eight hours for 24/7 a week and two teams who do the same on weekends. In this way, we can bring it back intelligently to 15 people rather than 80 to 90 people on watch and have to follow up. Not everyone has to have their own infrastructure anymore. For example, the RSZ has peak moments, on which RSZ returns enter ten days a quarter. If employers are members of a social secretariat, they will have 20 more days and therefore have a month to do so. The fourth quarter 2020 will enter between 20 and 31 January 2021 and between 10 and 20 February 2021. Those 20 days out of 90 require the RSZ capacity at peak level. Those 70 other days she doesn't need that and one can use that capacity for others. That's like an electricity company. Not everyone has a wind farm in their garden to have enough electricity for when all your household appliances are running at the same time on Saturday. No, they take away what they need and pay for it. One can do the same for IT, use and share computer capacity. By doing so, we have been able to significantly reduce the number of servers and the number of software licenses we needed, and by working together we have managed to achieve 20% savings without having to touch the substantive applications. So one needs an organ where everyone sits around the table together, does business in confidence and where one can reuse business. I do not know how that could be organized if one does not have such an association. If today the FPS Finance lends its printing service to another FOD and gets revenue for it, then that does not go to the operating resources of the FPS Finance. This therefore reduces cooperation, cost sharing and savings. It has also been a huge tool to respond, as I said earlier, and to bring know-how into the government around information systems. That hasn't been so obvious. Thirty years ago, everyone was tied to one mainframe supplier. The National Register only passed two or three years ago from a mainframe of a particular firm to what we call a service-oriented architecture with servers. When one looks at the budgets that are needed, one sees that they were divided by four. I assume that we should not primarily invest in the hardware store, if I may call it that, but that we should invest and ensure that we have good services for citizens and businesses, and that we should work well together. Smalls is actually nothing more than a vehicle. I really don't have any sense whatsoever in anything that people on the Smalls payroll are sent out to institutions, let alone anything that consultants who are attracted to framework agreements or procurement centres are used in the different institutions that use them. It doesn't have to be and it doesn't make any sense. There were a few more ad hoc questions. I gave a presentation two years ago. She's on the website and I can also get them to you in the Senate on the ethical aspects of artificial intelligence. That was my original research domain when I graduated. I myself have developed expert system shells, who tried to implement, develop and also self-learning systems with feedback. There are indeed many things, but, as indicated, this will have to be looked at internationally. This will require system safeguards. These are often self-learning systems that adjust themselves and are very complex. There, ethical principles and measures will have to be implemented by design. If you would like to know more about this, I would refer you to another occasion or to what I said in the Senate. There was another ad hoc question about QVAX. There is no two-step verification because we wanted to keep it low-threshold. When a person presents for vaccination in a vaccination centre, his identity is checked with his electronic identity card. If he is not the right person and has committed identity fraud, he will not normally be vaccinated. I have never said that the Data Protection Authority is a brake on what is needed to combat COOVID-19. However, in such a situation, I think it would be better for the Data Protection Authority to join us in seeking these balances in crisis situations. I have read that sometimes it is accused of being completely independent. We live in a real world. When we started, at the very beginning, with the fight against corona with a working group created by Minister De Backer, Data & Technology against corona, apps and systems were approved in the very short term for the required teleconsultation. That was necessary, because people had to keep them physically away from the doctor. There then was the presence of the chairman of the GBA, with good intentions to bring the balance of the drawing table in and to pay attention to it. The Management Committee of the GBA then drew up guidelines in good time, before Europe came up with them, which had to be taken into account in the design of such systems, data minimising and so on. That fits in with what I said at the beginning, about the balances: it is good that these people sit at the table, without having to see this as an influence and manipulation or whatever. If there were complex files in the previous privacy committee, it was accepted in an easier way. I think this would be a good thing, including those balances of law. I do not think there is a hierarchy of fundamental rights. I hope to have answered the most important question. I would be delighted if we could talk more thoroughly about the functioning of a number of things in Parliament, preventively and proactively. There is no point in balancing without trust or transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u14	Thanks for answering the questions. This debate has indeed not yet been concluded and is continuing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u15	Mr Robben, I asked you whether you were aware of this Putting Data at the Center project and whether Smals had been involved. Your answer to this question is not very clear. Indeed, you said that an informal body had been set up and that this project might result from it, but you were not aware of all the projects. You also said about the revelations of the newspaper Le Soir, that it confirmed after your reaction, that it was fake news. We are therefore entitled to believe that you have more information than that contained in the article. In short, on the one hand, you say that you cannot be aware of everything while leaving a blur and, on the other hand, you say that what appears in the press is false.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u16	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u17	I just want to know if you were aware of this project since you say that what is said in the article is wrong? Was Smals involved in this project? I expect a clear answer from you, whether you answer by yes or no. I clearly told you that I was one of the people in the Be Digital group. I can say that the concepts, without this project being named, were defined by this group. It wasn't the concepts that were in the press. It wasn't a people profiling system, it wasn't a centralized information system, it was an open data system. Citizens, when an event happens in their lives, want to have integrated services. When a child is born, it is necessary to avoid having to make a declaration to the commune, a declaration to the family allowance fund, to still have to make known the birth to Kind & Gezin or to the ONE. A child was born once.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u18	I fully agree; we just need a legal framework for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u19	Of course, and this legal framework has existed in the social sector since 1990. Indeed, the principle of the single collection of data has been included in the BCSS Act since 1990 and in the "Only Once" Act, which was later made by the Administrative Simplification Service for the rest. Yeah, I'm behind these concepts. No, I am not the basis of this specific project. No, this project was not initiated by the Smals. That's why I called the news in the press fake news. I'm not gonna lie. As I have indicated to you, it may very well be – and probably will be the case – that consultants who have worked on this project are people who were selected by BOSA on the basis of public procurement, which Smals has put into the market. But as I said to you, I do not control all the purchasing centres that are used by all the institutions. That's not the case, so I'm not gonna lie.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u20	Just a little reaction to the 1990 law. It's a general law. For the processing of specific data, a specific law is required. I think we need a law that determines the processing of the data with the purposes, and so on. There you quote me a law that is general.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u21	If you read the GDPR, you see that a number of things need to be put in a legal text. When you look at recital 41 of the GDPR Act, it is clearly said that taking into account the institutional framework of a country, this reference to a law can also be a law in the material sense. This is the great discussion; it is the balance that I have indicated to you. What is put in a formal law passed by Parliament? I find that the purposes for which information is processed, the main categories of data, the controller, etc. must be included in a formal law. On the other hand, as far as operationalization is concerned, attention must be paid. I gave you an example and I'll give it back to you. We have a contract, in a cooperation agreement on testing against covid-19. We have detailed all the flows in a cooperation agreement. Tomorrow we find that there are quick tests that don't pass through that channel. So we're seen! Then we have to come back! Either, we don't do quick tests; or, because it's a cooperation agreement that needs to be changed, it takes a few months, we're going to have... I believe that deciding on a regulation in the formal sense for the basic purposes for which information can be used is normal. But to determine all the operational aspects of the organisation of this flow, I believe that we must be able to do this in more operational texts. In my career, I also experienced situations where we had been too broad in regulation because we wanted to avoid wasting time changing everything. The entire system of authorization for access to the National Register was previously regulated by deliberate royal decrees in the Council of Ministers. The openings were then too large. Secondly, the Sectoral Committee of the National Register refined and further clarified the scheme, so that the new purposes were regulated in this respect. For the rest, I fully agree with you: the delegation must organise itself properly, with transparency of information and with responsibility to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u22	Since the last word is for Parliament, I will abuse it. Mr Robben, you confirm that a law is needed to determine the purposes and proportionality of data processing. In our country, in our Constitution, it is either a law or a decree. We're applying our Constitution. It must not be something broad. It must be something material. The CSI does not have that competence. It cannot add a new purpose or a new data transfer. This must be done by law. In the project you describe, there is a problem, because there is a new way to process and cross-check data and there is no legislative framework to do so. How is it that in the bodies where this has been dealt with it has not been brought to the attention of the government or Parliament that a project is being put in place without the necessary legal framework? How is it that we parliamentarians learn from the press? That is why we have this hearing; all the explanations that are given today are due to press releases. Without the press, we wouldn't even have this debate. I think that this opacity, and the fact that you do not even interact with the competent institution, which is Parliament, to legislate on the legal framework necessary for data processing, is rather disappointing. You say that in terms of purpose and, in my view, proportionality, the processing of data must be determined by law. But the problem lies in the fact that we do not know what the aims of this project are. Since we do not have the details, like my colleague, I would like the reports of these meetings to be communicated to us so that we can know what the processing of these data is for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u23	It goes without saying that a public institution has no tasks other than those entrusted to it. It goes without saying that a public institution has no other mission than those assigned to it by law. Of course, a public institution, such as a social security institution, can never do anything with data that is not necessary for the performance of its tasks. However, it is different when it comes to its practical organisation. There is indeed regulation on the crossroads bank as a service integrator. There is also regulation on the FOD BOSA as a service integrator. Regulation states that no institution may process data other than what is necessary for the performance of its tasks. As I said, the Information Security Committee cannot add any purpose to institutions. This must be laid down by law, decree or decree. What can the Information Security Committee do? If an institution A has a mandate, for which it needs data, while institution B has that data and is permitted to process it lawfully, it may verify whether, under the only-once principle, institution A requires that data, it may retrieve it from institution B, if it is proportionate and taking security measures into account. That's the only thing; nothing else. If there is any doubt as to how that happens, then I think it is right that there should be a debate on the substance of the matter, in order to see whether the rules on the information security committee can be refined. If you want people to be granted rights automatically and health data to be shared for the purpose of providing quality care, then there will also need to be systems in which these data can be exchanged safely. That is in the objectives of the various bodies. These modalities can be worked out by such a body, which is multidisciplinary and close to reality. I fear problems when all this is put into formal regulation. The objectives of the public institutions must be in formal regulation but not the degree of operationalisation, otherwise progress will be unnecessarily hypothesized. In my view, the modalities should be laid down by bodies appointed for this purpose. This is also recommended at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u24	Madam President, I have no new question. I just wanted to add that we are talking about something very important, namely the processing of data about people's privacy. Personally, I trust a piece of legislation and not institutions that will regulate it. If a new element were to be put in place for the purpose of facilitation (I am not against the future), I agree with the objectives you are putting forward, but they must be regulated by law and not by regulators (CICI or others). I trust the law, I repeat, and not regulators who are not regulated by law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u25	Madam President, I would like to ask Mr Robben about the BeSt Address project, because to his knowledge it is the only concrete project established under the umbrella, in the giron, of this Putting Datat at the Center project. This was discussed in this B-Digital group? of different administrations. Given that this BeSt Address project consists of the exchange of data, mergers or integrations of data from the National Register, on the one hand, and from urban planning data on existing places and buildings on the other, can we be informed of the legal basis for this exchange of data leading to the implementation of this BeSt Address system? When I reread the law of 5 September 2018 establishing the Information Security Committee, I have the impression – but I have not yet looked into the preparatory work – that there is a need for a deliberation of the Information Security Committee with regard to the communication of data from the Social Security Bank to other public institutions. I think that's what's done. On the scope of these deliberations, did the law provide for such deliberations for the communication of personal data, such as health data, rather than for the operational nature of the communication of the data? How should they be transmitted? Should they be encrypted? Should these deliberations not go so far as to allow new data transmissions? This term "communication" is used in the 2018 law and not the term "transmission". In this case, one of the impressions we can have in our Constitution (?) It is because, in the end, the deliberations do more than make technical arrangements to operationalize data transmissions which, under the GDPR, the Law on the Protection of Privacy and the Constitution, must also be authorized by law. Indeed, deliberation is not a law. Unlike a cooperation agreement that can be considered as a law, a deliberation by the Information Security Committee does not give rise to parliamentary debate. During the hearings under Bill Pandémie, we were even told that ratifying a decision to authorize the transmission of data by legislation is not enough. There really needs to be this parliamentary debate because we are dealing with something so essential in relation to privacy, to the integrity of the person that, if we allow new processing, new data transmissions, a parliamentary debate must take place between the elected representatives who represent the citizens. You, who seem to like the Constitution, agree with constitutional principles. In our country, however, these are the deliberations of the Information Security Committee. They're not laws. Although it is true that the members of this committee are appointed by Parliament, they are not elected. These deliberations can be "confronted" – that is the term used in the law in Article 39, § 2, 2° – with higher legal norms. The Data Protection Authority can therefore make recommendations and ask the Information Security Committee to reconsider this deliberation, but there is no obligation on the part of the Data Protection Authority to modify its deliberations. Finally, what is the remedy for the citizen who disagrees with the deliberations of the Information Security Committee? Again, if the citizen does not agree with how the data will be communicated from one institution to another, this remains technical. In practice, however, these deliberations play the role that the regulations in principle accord to the law. It's a question you don't necessarily have to answer, since you're just telling us to apply the law. However, I wonder about the extension of interpretation in the application of the law. In other words, has not the way of interpreting the law been extended, since the Information Security Committee decides on measures that should normally be dealt with by law? Anyway, aren't you going too far? Finally, what is the legal basis for data fusion in the BeSt Address project? I am sorry that my speech has been a little long, but this is in line with the problem raised by Mr Aouasti in particular. Indeed, I wonder if we should not have a second meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u26	BeSt is an official directory of street names, including numbers and postal codes. This is an authentic source, not personal data. It's Open Data, data that's available. This helps to avoid bad addresses. It's no more or less than that. I can give you the site address for more information. For the Information Security Committee (ISC), I will illustrate my answer with a very concrete example. I told you that the CSI will never give a mission or determine a purpose. For example, Flanders decides in the context of the fight against covid, that workers in technical unemployment for reasons related to the health crisis receive a premium of 200 euros. There are two possibilities: either you ask everyone to come and prove that everyone is in this situation, or (and Flanders asks) you ask the ONEM if the organisation can communicate information about people in this situation. The ITUC will, first, verify the existence of this other legal text that governs this advantage. He will then verify that Flanders will receive information on persons living in Flanders and not on persons living in Wallonia or Brussels. Third, it will verify that the data transmitted are the data required for the award of the premium. And finally, he checks that the procedure is going well in a secure way. However, it is not the ITUC that decides that Flanders grants a €200 premium to people who are technically unemployed. Where a task assigned to a body by regulation and that body, in order to carry out that task, needs additional information available from another institution, the CSI shall intervene to verify compliance with the conditions for the communication of information. As the CSI meets monthly, the information may be provided within one and a half months or two. In order to do so, it is necessary to regulate in detail, not the conditions for granting the premium in question, but the exchange of information which takes much more time. I can give you 80 examples that I have here in front of me of all the situations of health crisis, in which CPAS, municipalities or regions have made such requests. That is the usefulness of the realization. It is very transparent, it is public, but I fully agree that it would be beneficial for confidence to hold a substantive discussion on what an Information Security Committee can or cannot do. Its powers are regulated in a law, but I think there are suspicions that it goes much further and it is bad for trust.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u27	Thank you. Colleagues, I think we can close here for now?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u28	Mr Robben, I come back to you because, indeed, we have very interesting discussions, but they go beyond the subject, because your opening statement was much broader. To return to the Putting Data at the Center project, since you say you were not aware of it, except for the BeSt Address project, who do you think our committee should hear? This was indeed the object of our approach. Should we hear this mentioned Opera band or BE Digital members, who apparently doesn't exist anymore? Should the members of the G-Cloud Strategic Board be heard? I would be interested to know who the committee should hear to learn about the Putting Data at the Center project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u29	Honestly, I've read the document Ben Smeets sent you, which contains a lot of information. This is a project that was, for a large part, drawn by the BOSA-SPF Strategy and Support, with the information that Ben Smeets has given you. The document is quite complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u30	I still wanted to get some information. When we discussed the possibility for the citizen to visualize who had access to this data, not only in theory but in fact, you said that this could be problematic and that a balance had to be struck. Indeed, in the case of unemployed persons who had been deregistered, some agents were physically threatened after the persons concerned had had the opportunity to see which agent had taken the decision on the basis of that access. I think we could limit the visibility to the institution at first. It is the institution itself that must know internally which agents have had access to the data. Transparency requires citizens to be able to consult a platform at any time in which they see which institutions and agents (not to mention their names) have accessed their data, for what purpose and also to be able to correct them. I think you really are the person who can think about this system to improve trust. There are countries that go so far as to publish algorithms. This has been said to us in the hearing on the draft bill Committee on the Interior. Here, too, it helped to build the confidence of the citizen by seeing which algorithms are used for data cross-checks. What do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u31	We have logins from end to end. We know each time who did what. Only here, too, must a balance be struck between giving the information necessary to a person to know who has accessed what, without having the disadvantages. I also gave you examples for hospitals, etc. I'm quite ready to think. In fact, some information is not consulted, but is sent ex officio. For example, ONSS sends all salary information to the Pension Account. These are standardized processes. It's documented and people know it. For specific access, don't worry, you can think about it. For artificial intelligence algorithms, I fully agree on the importance of making certain algorithms public. But these algorithms are self-learning. I can also give you examples of pattern recognition in the fight against fraud. You will also find explanations on my website. Those things are constantly changing themselves. At some point no photo is taken of it to indicate that it is then or not. Self-learning mechanisms are used to adjust permanently. This requires very specialised knowledge. That is why it is only right that we should have an ethical debate on artificial intelligence. It is indeed necessary that the use of algorithms is transparent, especially when this gives rise to the assessment of people. Another issue is whether the anti-fraud mechanisms should be made public in detail, so that people who want to fraud know what they are and what they are not looking for. A balance must be sought in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u32	Madam President, with the last word still coming to Parliament, allow me to speak for a moment. Mr Robben, thank you for your comments. You gave an example of a decision to grant a premium to workers in technical unemployment during the Corona period. I maintain that whatever body of elected officials takes it, it is this legislative provision which must determine which data must be processed, transmitted with a specific purpose, in this case the granting of a premium. The deliberations of the Information Security Committee will then take place for implementation. I understand your will that things must go fast by avoiding possible blockages, etc. However, it must be noted that, for example, Article 22 on the register of undertakings in the context of corona control raises legal problems. This shows that the processing of data must really remain in the direction of an assembly of elected officials and not an administrative assembly. We will certainly discuss this issue at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic448x.u33	We're gonna close up here, Mrs. Gilson. We still have a small part of the meeting in closed session. I thank Mr Robben for being here and for his speech.
