ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u1	Mr President, Minister, last spring the announcements of a new night train connection followed each other. Several operators applied for lanes at Infrabel and checked with SNCB and the FPS Mobility for support. That pleased me and many others and showed very well that the night train is back from never really gone. Anyone who is looking for a more sustainable way of travel, became immensely hopeful of the announcement of those possible new connections. At the end of August, however, there was bad news for the Brussels-Malmö connection. No offer was received on the Swedish government's tender. That's a missed opportunity for our country. There is no connection to the Austrian ski resorts either. I heard during the budget negotiations that this government has the ambition to make the most logical choice of the train, including for travel within Europe. Night trains play an important role in this. After all, they are a good sustainable alternative to the plane. Which night train connections get the green light from Infrabel and can their services start? When exactly will they start? How often will they drive out? What do you think of the news about the Brussels-Malmö night train connection? What do you think is the reason why no operator made an offer? Are you going to continue talking to potential operators about this? Have you had any conversations with your Swedish, Danish and German colleagues about this night train connection? What will you do to address the causes of this failed opportunity? How are the work on the International Rail Passenger Platform progressing? What initiatives are under way there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u2	Mr President, Minister, the announced night train between Malmö and Brussels will therefore not be available. Despite the invitation to tender with two calls from the Swedish authorities, no operator showed sufficient interest. Mr Minister, why were there no tenders for the tender? Have you taken initiatives in this regard, or are you planning to do so, with the Swedish government or with potential operators? Can you give an overview of the requests received for lanes on which night trains could be put in? What's the status?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u3	Mr President, Minister, my question is on the same subject. Last week's plenary session was due to a speech by Mr Roggeman on the night train, the consequences of liberalisation and the flight tax, all related issues. Mr Roggeman said that liberalisation would restore the popularity of the night train, but we have to note that there were night trains before liberalisation. As a child I traveled on the night train with the Federation of Christian Mutualities. Then that was very well developed, with restoration carriages and everything on and on. Since then, this whole evolution has come to a halt and there are no more night trains, except for the Österreichische Bundesbahnen (ÖBB), a public body. Meanwhile, the project of a night train between Brussels and Malmö is buried. Despite all the hurray messages, there's no night train. No bid has been made to the Swedish government to benefit from the line. That must be a sign on the wall that something is thoroughly wrong with the system. If we still want to use the night train to meet the 2030 climate targets, we need to make political decisions today. 2021 has been declared the European Year of Rail: an important moment to move forward. In the coalition agreement, you promised to make Brussels a real international train hub. This includes high-quality night trains. Vivaldi introduces a flight tax, which has to raise EUR 30 million. It must be possible to release 2 million for the night trains. That's not that much. The international rail sector was opened up to the free market 15 years ago, with all the consequences. Minister, what is the view of SNCB and your cabinet on the night trains? Do you see this as a public service or an economic activity? Are you prepared to recognise the night trains as a public and public service? How will you realise the ambition to make Brussels an international train hub? Do you think the night train is part of that? You have a unique opportunity to re-launch the night train in Belgium and even in Europe from Brussels. Are you thinking of including this in the management agreement with SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u4	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, night trains have been a source of enthusiasm for several months. This is reflected in the latest FPS Mobility survey showing the public interest in our night trains. But it is known - the historical elements have been recalled - that making these links operational is a logistical, operational and financial challenge, as evidenced in particular by the cancellation of the Brussels-Malmö link) as has been recalled. In this context, you have announced a budget to support night trains. Therefore, in view of the various deadlines that exist, how will the two million announced be distributed and used? Are other initiatives to support night trains initiatives being considered? What about the authorisation for the European Sleeper and OVOE projects? When will they be operational in our country? What, in your opinion, are the reasons why no tenders were submitted to the Swedish authorities concerning the Brussels-Malmö link? Have you had contacts with the countries involved in this project to learn from it and to examine how, in the future, connecting projects can be carried out in a concrete way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u5	Mr Minister, I am delighted to see, when we hope to get out of a complicated period for public transport, that the interest in night trains is not being denied. The SPF Mobility survey published this summer that 62% of Belgians say they are interested in this mode of transport is a further demonstration of this. The announcement of the reopening of lines follows one another at European level. Recently, we learned of the reopening of the line between Paris, Munich and Vienna and, at the same time, that a night train will start driving again between Zurich and Amsterdam, passing through Cologne. At the end of 2023, Brussels and Paris should be linked to Berlin. Progress has been made, especially as Infrabel has granted paths to two other providers who, according to the press, could be able to join Prague and Milan. If we want the train to become a real alternative for the citizen, it will take more and faster. This government has understood this: the taxation of airfares for short distances and the reduction of the cost of nightpaths for new entrants are all steps in the right direction. I am also pleased to learn that, in line with our resolution adopted here, you are advocating at European level, Mr Minister, to review the rules on fuel taxation for aviation, which are involved in this unfair competition. It seems that many new lines are mainly the result of agreements between large historical German, French, Austrian and Swiss operators. It is therefore clear that if Belgium wants to exist on the night train map, SNCB will have to show more proactivity than today. Let us acknowledge that, from a position of reluctance to start, it is part of a genuine cooperation with international operators. It's good, but it's time to start the higher speed and show more initiatives, because without the will of all actors, there will be no natural evolution of things. The end of the nightline project to Sweden is proof of this. Mr Minister, why is SNCB not mentioned among the partners in the agreement between German, French, Swiss and Austrian operators? How have your requests to review the European framework for subsidies and taxation been received by your counterparts and the European Commission? Is SNCB in contact with the operators who have submitted the new furrow requests?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u6	If no other Members ask to speak, I will ask my own questions. Minister, Mrs Vindevoghel asked a number of questions about the night train last week, in our night meeting. That was pretty appropriate. At that time not all the questions were answered, but we are now a week later and you may have received the information requested. I have three questions for you, which I would like to repeat. Firstly, can you confirm that the support for the night train is only intended for connections that run at night and that international connections during the day are by definition excluded? Secondly, does this only apply to international passenger transport or can it also apply to night trains that are deposited within the territory, with a domestic departure and end point? Thirdly, there was the possibility of providing foreign railway undertakings with access to rolling stock. Can you confirm that the correct interpretation is that SNCB will be invited to lend its rolling stock to foreign private railway companies or public railway companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u7	Mr President, mevrouw Buyst, mevrouw Vindevoghel, mijnheer Van den Bergh, mijnheer Trooster, Mr Parent, mevrouw Verhaert, Mrs Hanus, mijnheer Roggeman, fall asleep in Brussels and wake up in Vienna, Malmö, Milan or elsewhere in Europe after a railway trip, I think that makes many of us dream. A survey by the Mobility FPS shows that there is an increasing appetite of our fellow citizens for international and night train trips. It is in this context, in particular, that, on my proposal, the government decided during the last budget conclave to release for international night trains a first budget of two million euros for 2022, in order to be able to support the current operators and to encourage new providers to embark on a course payment or direct support. I am very pleased to have obtained this first specific budget to support night trains. This is one of the steps to be taken to make Belgium even more a railway hub. I was, of course, disappointed myself when I heard that the Swedish Government did not find an operator for the Malmö-Brussels night train connection. That connection would be subsidised from Malmö to the Danish-German border. As far as that night train is concerned, I can tell you that my staff and the staff of the FPS Mobility, together with representatives from Germany and Denmark, have participated in a working group set up by Sweden in preparation for this initiative. The cooperation in that working group was particularly positive and ended with a clear vision and information for the further development of these plans. Talks with our European and Swedish partners will give us a better understanding of the pain points and help us achieve a better outcome of such projects in the future. Since the tender is a contract issued by the Swedish Government, it is now primarily up to the Swedish Government to decide whether it will issue a new contract with this new element of financial support that the Belgian State is now prepared to grant to this type of initiative. With regard to addressing the possible causes, we need to provide better support for the functioning of the rail sector. As already mentioned, this is a challenge that needs to be addressed in advance at European level. Several initiatives are already underway. The European Commission recently completed its study on long-distance trains and presented the results earlier this month. On the basis of these results, a European Action Plan will be drawn up to improve the framework conditions for long-distance trains. That plan is expected later this year. In addition, there is also the study set up by the FPS Mobility to identify the promising connections in concrete terms for a modal shift from plane to train. On the basis of these results, we will be able to identify targeted actions consistent with those of the European Action Plan. Furthermore, at European level, I will continue to advocate the development and implementation of a support plan for the sector. As far as the IRP platform is concerned, my staff are still actively participating in it. That platform shall consider possible actions to improve the framework and conditions for international train connections. The IRP Platform drew up a first progress report, which was presented at the EU Transport Council in June. The progress report provides an overview of obstacles to the development of international train journeys. It also identifies scenarios and tools to remove these obstacles. In a subsequent phase, the platform will monitor the identified actions and, where necessary, initiate actions itself. Belgium will take on the co-chairship of the digitisation working group in the coming year. That working group mainly focuses on the customer experience. Some of the main work areas are improved data exchange, the possibility of offering third party tickets and the improvement of services for people with reduced mobility. Mr Van den Bergh, night train operators can request the capacity to organise such connections at any time. The deadline for the so-called U-Pass Request for next year's annual service fell on Monday 12 April this year. All applications were tested in terms of network feasibility and were coordinated with neighbouring networks. Operators who have ordered capacity have now received a final sacrifice. As you all know, my ambition is to strengthen Brussels' position on the map of international rail links, including night trains. Although the train connection with Malmö is not yet available, we can look forward to the arrival of two other connections next year: the night train from European Sleeper, which will start from Brussels via Berlin to Prague from April, and the Ostende Vienne Orient Experience, which will leave from Ostend and stop in Milan. The arrival of these connections, alongside the Nightjet train, which runs three times a week from Vienna to Brussels, shows us that Brussels is indeed strengthening its place on the night train ticket. Finally, I can also tell you that I had bilateral contacts with my European colleagues on the sidelines of the informal European Council in Ljubljana at the end of December. It was a question of looking together at how we could better support international rail travel in the future. At the same meeting, I pleaded with my European colleagues and the Commission for a relaxation of the rules on State aid for rail transport. If we want to support a modal shift, such a relaxation must apply both to freight transport and to international passenger transport. We must reduce and, if possible, eliminate unfair competition between trains and modes of transport that use fossil fuels such as cars, trucks and aircraft. I called on everyone to act for our economy, our jobs and a sustainable future for international trains. I have also asked the European Commission to review the rules on night trains. We know how useful the night train is in our efforts to reduce the number of short and medium passenger journeys. To succeed, trains must make our fellow citizens dream, as is the case with international day or night trains. The same is true of the European Union, which must make people dream. She has great ambitions with the Green Deal. This ambition must also be translated into concrete actions in the rail sector, which I continue to work on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. You know that the cause is close to my heart. We also adopted the resolution to promote international rail transport in 2020. Falling asleep in Brussels and waking up in Berlin, Prague, Milan or Vienna: it is an additional reason to look forward to the coming spring when these connections will start. The night train is indeed back and is a great alternative to the plane. You already sketched it yourself. There are a number of very big challenges for the sector. There is a need for modern carriages. There is also a lack of good information and booking sites. I am therefore very pleased to hear that Belgium will have the co-chairship on digitisation, which will just address these challenges. Competition with aviation is still not entirely fair either. Other countries in Europe, such as Norway and Sweden, impose taxes on kerosene. Other countries introduce a tax on airline tickets, such as the Netherlands, Sweden, Germany and a number of other countries. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is convinced that we can increase the share of the train in international movements. So support is needed. I am therefore pleased that the budgetary agreement has made a clear choice for this support and that EUR 2 million has been earmarked for that support for 2022. I am also very much looking forward to all the studies and consultations planned with the other European countries in order to work on Brussels as an international train hub.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. During my night speech when discussing the government statement, I also indicated that the story of the night trains is not very clear and is not a hip-hip-hoera story, as some have suggested. This is also demonstrated by this project. There has been twice a call from the government, which was well prepared in a working group. Subsidies are provided for up to the Danish-German border. Nevertheless, no operator is apparently interested in the project. It seems logical to me that more insights should be gained in relation to the issue of human rights. After all, the project goes very far, including with regard to equipment. However, the great pain that needs to be borne in mind will mainly be the cost-effectiveness. So that just means money. We shall now do the same. We will allocate EUR 2 million for the project in 2022. So I would like to ask what we will be able to find after 2022, in particular what was generated by the EUR 2 million. We must certainly ensure that, for cross-border night trains, all the partners involved do an equivalent or dignified part. I'll take a look at Europe for once. An inventory of promising compounds is being prepared which may be considered. I doubt there will be many profitable connections. It is clear that subsidies will be needed, which is not necessarily wrong. The question is what the role of the government is in this. Organising public transport is part of the public service remit. The question is how far we go, because the needs on the local network in terms of comfort, punctuality, reliability and safety are also particularly high.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u10	Minister, you have hardly answered my questions. Firstly, I did not get an answer to my question as to whether you see Brussels Airport as an international train hub. If we want to go against these taxes, we have to offer people an alternative. Secondly, you do not say anything about our idea of turning the night trains into a public service and thus providing a long-term sustainable solution. For example, you do not say that you will include this in the management agreement. However, it has to be said that so far, night trains have hardly improved, because the sector has been liberalised and there are no resources. With 2 million euros you will not have far trains yet. Moreover, today I read a call from SNCB who says he has too little money to just do what she has to do. I don't understand your vision of night trains. Your attitude to these evolutions is not ambitious.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u11	Minister, thank you for all these answers. I hear that for some it is never enough, but Belgium is making efforts. We come back a long way on the issue of night trains in our country. Efforts are slow and will take time. Europe will have to play a decisive role. I am pleased that our minister is insisting on the European level (...) but I think there is a focus and pressure to maintain at this level. Efforts are insufficient at European level. I receive a confirmation of the lines to Berlin and Milan that were questioned a few weeks ago in the press. I welcome this confirmation. This is good news for the modal shift from the plane to the train or car, which will actually be amplified by decisions and budgetary choices that were made in the budget presented last week. Just one thing about our country's capabilities. We also voted in the Benelux Parliament on a recommendation, on the initiative of the Greens and Socialists, notwithstanding the difficulties, but also on proposals. Our country has a modest size in relation to the issue of night trains. International cooperation is a way forward, not only in terms of equipment but also in terms of improving cross-border mobility. I hope that Belgium will also be able to be active in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u12	Minister, although your answer was very comprehensive, for which I am afraid I have not received any answers to my questions on how you will spend the money. The night trains make us dream and I understand, of course, that they are fully supported in the beginning, but in the long term it is also important that the resources are used efficiently. I would have liked to know your plans in that respect. I think it is important that the night trains are self-sustaining in the long term. I am sorry that you have not answered my questions in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly pleased that we have been able to have a topical debate on this important issue of the return of night trains. It is true that we had worked together on this text during this period somewhat tainted by political uncertainties, in order to accompany the return of night trains to Belgium. I am pleased to see that this government is moving in the right direction to follow up on the first text, the resolution that we voted together in this committee and in plenary at the beginning of the legislature. There are many advantages to the night train. Compared to the aircraft, it avoids anything that is recorded or filed at airports. It makes it possible to reach the city centre in the European capitals. There are also many advantages for the traveller as such. Of course, I think all around the table, we were hoping that the night trains would return more quickly. I stressed this in my speech. But we need to see every night train line a bit like a pilot project. I heard each other's interventions. There is the question of the cost, the rate for those who will take the night train, and the question of the government's investment, which is a positive investment, which I support, in order to stimulate the return of the night train to our territory. But we must see, as we move forward, the evolution of the transport demands made by our fellow citizens to use the night train. I think we need to take advantage of the first few months of the night train to make it a pilot project and then draw conclusions from it. I believe that almost all the members of this committee, in any case those who supported the proposal for the return of night trains to Belgium, will support the rapid implementation of this project. We will remain at the disposal of this commission and our minister to assist him in his task.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u14	Minister, my three questions were added to this topical debate. I asked them last week, but I didn't get an answer. This second attempt remains fruitless.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u15	Yes, you do. I've clearly talked about the international night trains. You need to listen better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u16	Minister, the railway police law created the possibility in 2018 to impose an alternative sanction on minors for infringements in trains or stations. In the Netherlands they continue to do so. The Dutch Railways and the Council for the Protection of Children have jointly concluded an agreement. As a result, alternative penalties can now be organised at the Dutch Railways. In this way, young people carry out community service in the environment where they have caused damage, which will make them more aware of its consequences. I have a number of questions about this. How many minors have received an alternative sentence in the last three years? How many minors have been fined in the last three years? Are you in favour of organising alternative penalties on the railways so that young people can carry out community service at the point of their offence? Is SNCB prepared to engage in such cooperation? Finally, at the time, the Commissioner for Children's Rights made a number of comments on the amendment of the law on the railway police. These comments were not taken into account at the time. Are you considering an adjustment to ensure that the rights of young people are better guaranteed by the railway police?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u17	Ms Buyst, the law in question came into force in November 2018. The first fines were imposed in the middle of the following year. Since the start of the corona crisis, the number of rail passengers has fallen sharply and the number of observations has decreased significantly. The same applies to findings concerning minors concerning irregularities in their transport tickets, inter alia because of the introduction of compulsory distance learning during the previous school year. As a result, SNCB has not had the opportunity to work with the new process for a full year in normal mode since the introduction of the administrative fine. To date, no alternative sanctions have been imposed on minors. However, there is currently a broad exercise with the different actors involved in the determinations to optimise the process. I remain generally in favour of such a system, but in normal circumstances and not in the one we found ourselves in last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u18	Minister, I fully understand the situation of SNCB in 2020. Young people could or should not take the train because there was distance learning. Perhaps, however, this is the right time to urge SNCB to have alternative penalties carried out in its own environment. In this way, the educational added value that an alternative punishment may have can be better reflected. This principle is also used in juvenile law. Young people are in full development and need to learn to respect rules. That is why they are entitled to an appropriate sanction and to a treatment that will help them understand the effect of their behaviour and learn something from it. I hope, therefore, that SNCB has listened to my question and would like, if necessary, to reflect on the way in which alternative sanctions can be imposed in its own domain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u19	Thank you, Mr Roggeman, for the replacement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u20	Mr Minister, I am trying to gain some insight into the use of lanes at Infrabel, in the operation, in the use of railway infrastructure and in the objectification of railway investment. After all, it is a large public undertaking, in which many people work and where much investment is being made. That is why I have asked a number of questions on this subject before. From answers to previous questions, I believe that it is not so obvious to answer questions relating to the occupation of lanes. I therefore opt for a broad wording in these follow-up questions. How many lanes are allocated per railway line? Do you have annual or quarterly figures in this respect, if necessary per day? What capacity of lanes is in use? This may also be expressed according to any terminology. According to Infrabel, which locations are the biggest bottlenecks in the network? Does Infrabel use other standards, in addition to the number of traffic paths issued, to express the occupation of the network? Can you give an objective assessment of that? I hope that my new attempt at questioning will be more fruitful than the previous one.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u21	Mr Roggeman, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Court, oral questions which seek only to receive statistical information are inadmissible. So that applies to your first three sub-questions. For the answer to these questions, I refer to my answer to your written question. After all, that describes the situation as it is. We have already informed you that Infrabel does not have the information requested by you in the form requested by you. With regard to the criteria used by Infrabel, a social cost-benefit analysis should be a parameter that is taken into account, although that should not be the only parameter. For example, a small line with an industrial connection and little traffic will only generate a small income for Infrabel in terms of billed lanes. Freight lanes generate little revenue, while maintenance costs, as for all infrastructure, are high. However, rail links can be essential to maintain industrial activity and employment. It is therefore important to keep the parameters involved in Infrabel's investment decisions as broad as possible. They need to integrate the cost/financial income ratio, but also take into account different criteria and societal needs, such as the willingness to modal shift, a global improvement in network performance, sustainability and so on. Similarly, investment choices must be made, not only from the point of view of the infrastructure manager, but also in order to meet the demands of railway operators as well as ultimately the expectations of final customers, for they include companies that create jobs. For this reason, among other reasons, the infrastructure manager has been strengthening its customer focus for a long time. This applies to the operational aspects, but also in the context of determining the capacity needs for the network of the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u22	Mr Minister, I shall start with the form. I know the Rules of Procedure a little bit, too. Admissibility concerns parliamentary questions as a whole, not partial questions. After all, that could be an excuse to ask a lot of people to refuse information. I agree that the use of rail infrastructure is not the only parameter to assess the appropriateness of rail investment, but it is one of the most important parameters. It should be included in the total exercise. In that sense, I find it surprising that, despite my very open question about the routes available from the point of view of capacity and potential bottlenecks, you say that Infrabel does not have that information. So apparently we don't know how many lanes Infrabel has sold. Nor do we know how many trains run per line or how much capacity is still available. Apparently, you and Infrabel don't even know what the biggest bottlenecks are on the net. It is punishment that that information is not available. Selling lanes is now just the core command of Infrabel. I have looked at the annual financial report: it involves more than EUR 700 million on an annual basis, but it is apparently a great mystery where that money comes from. I wonder how one can do business on such a basis. Apparently, Infrabel is the only company in the world that doesn't know what, where and to whom they sell how much. I find that surprising. This creates problems for rail investment, because people do not know what the return is. There are indeed more criteria, but the use of the railways and the sale of lanes is the reason why rail infrastructure is being built. If one then sees what amounts are involved. For example, you have only just allocated EUR 43 million to the Brussels-Luxembourg line. These are considerable sums and we must have an idea of the payback period and the profitability of that project. If freight corridors are to be extended to three or four railway lines, as you said earlier, this is about huge budgets and expropriation of hundreds of owners. That it is not even possible to say that it is necessary because it is a bottleneck and because it serves the general interest, as we create so much capacity in return. We don't even have any information on that yet. I find that striking. This creates problems for management and decision-making, because what basis does one have for making decisions and for making choices between infrastructure projects? There must be a minimum of transparency about such amounts, including with regard to the representatives of the people and the people. It is a public undertaking with a turnover of EUR 1 billion per year. Well, then, in return, we can at least get some clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u23	Mr Minister, SNCB has tested a new application which examines the possibility of having the traveller pay automatically on the basis of the journey made on the basis of GPS data. Those dates would be kept subsequently for one year to conduct further investigations. The test project was done with 10,000 travelers. On what basis were these travelers selected? Is that group representative of the total passenger pool? How will fraud be prevented and does the project not involve an increased risk of undeclared driving? Why are the data kept for a year and what is the added value of this? Was the process coordinated with the Data Protection Authority? It concerns sensitive data about a large number of people. Finally, what is the estimated cost of the project for SNCB and what return does it hope for?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u24	Mr Roggeman, SNCB tells me to want to innovate and test for its travellers. In order to simplify the purchase process of tickets, she is considering a new system to purchase train tickets, in addition to existing channels. The system, which was conceived and tested by the Innovation Lab, a team at SNCB working on innovative ideas, uses geolocation. To test the system, SNCB will offer four products, namely the standard ticket, the youth ticket, the weekend ticket and the senior ticket. SNCB wants to test whether technology can make travel by train easier. With that user-friendly application, the traveller can check-in when approaching and checking out the station or platform as soon as he reaches his destination. Thanks to the GPS data, the journey is detected from start to finish and the traveller automatically receives a final bill after the journey, which is paid through the app. The best ticket is offered automatically. The customer does not have to decide in advance which ticket is best suited, that is what the application does automatically after the end of the journey. For the test with up to 10,000 customers and for the period of one year, SNCB pays 150,000 euros. The participants in the test are selected according to a number of criteria: the motivation to participate in the test project, the way of paying a credit card now but in the future also bancontact............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ SNCB informs me that there are a lot of technical possibilities to prevent fraud. They are always specific to the technology used. The train guide can of course also scan the ticket, as they do for another ticket purchased today via the app on the website. As regards tracking the GPS data, the limitation period for contractual claims relating to passenger transport by train is one year. SNCB informs me that the data will be kept until the end of the period in order to resolve any discussions or cases of fraud. The supplier of the technology and the app used to sell the tickets acts as the controller. For the processing of the data in which SNCB is responsible, in particular the selection of candidates in the pilot project, SNCB informs me that there is no high risk to the persons whose personal data are being processed. As a result, no prior consultation is required, as required by Article 36 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is a positive initiative of SNCB that it is committed to innovation in the provision of services to travellers. I think we should watch over the protection of the data. It's about privacy-sensitive data for a lot of travelers. Especially when the pilot project is rolled out on a larger scale, it concerns the transport dates from tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands of passengers. Experience has shown that the government is also not insensitive to data leaks. In recent years there have been data leaks at the FOD Finance and recently at the National Lottery. It is important that SNCB should focus on data security. Although the consultation of the Data Protection Authority is not strictly mandatory, it may be interesting to seek informal advice to exclude all possible risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u26	Mr President, Minister, in April Fietsberaad, imec and MobiliData organised a pilot project at the Antwerp-Berchem station in connection with bicycle parking. The bikes of the participants were chipped and could park 24 hours free of charge near the platforms. If their bike was there for more than 24 hours, they paid 1.25 euros per hour. The aim of the project is to guarantee a free cycling spot for each commuter. Especially in large stations it can be very busy in the bicycle parkings and one sometimes has to look for a free place. The question is whether this system can provide an answer. In any case, it is in line with how the Dutch Railways approach its large bicycle parkings in the cities. I once had the opportunity to look in Utrecht, where this system is being applied. What conclusions do the initiators draw from their pilot project? Is their evaluation available? How will SNCB proceed with the results of this pilot project? Does SNCB follow other projects or systems at home and abroad in relation to bicycle parking? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u27	Mr President, Minister, you have often expressed your support for the combination of bicycles and trains, and rightly so. Previous answers to written questions show that the vast majority of stations and stops still do not have a secure or guarded bicycle storage facility. There is still some work to be done if we want to achieve an effective combination of bike-train and modal shift. Then we have to bet on it. More and more people buy an electric bike, which is quite expensive equipment. Leaving them at a station today is quite a risk, especially if you look at the dates of the bicycle thefts. An interesting slope is perhaps what is used in some stops, namely the bicycle safe. This also appears to be widespread in the Netherlands. It's about a metal iron cabinet in which one can store one's bike individually. In which Belgian stations are these available today? Does SNCB evaluate its use positively? Are there any drawbacks to giving reason not to spread them further? Is its exploitation profitable? Is SNCB considering installing more bicycle safes in the future, in more and other stations? What do you think of that think?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Buyst, Mr Roggeman, Mr Toventors, you know that all the measures that promote the use of bicycles are very much at my heart. On 24 September, the government, with me as coordinator, with BE Cyclist, drew up the first federal action plan to promote the bicycle. I am therefore very pleased with the ambitious plan in which all my fellow ministers and secretaries of state take action. One of the axes on which I work is to promote the combination of bike-train by increasing comfort. I therefore welcome the fact that SNCB is following domestic pilot projects on the stable of bicycles as far as possible. SNCB also tells me to set up pilot projects on a regular basis to make the combination of bike and train more attractive to its customers. She also looks at the best practices abroad, which have already proved their worth. They come to a large extent from the Netherlands, which in many respects remains a guide country for Belgium. Information on the pilot project in question has been taken into account in drawing up the SNCB's new intermodality strategy. The preliminary results strengthened SNCB in the direction chosen. The final report is not yet available. It is therefore still too early for SNCB to draw definitive conclusions. However, SNCB has a few observations. It fears that the management costs of such a storage facility will be fairly high. In addition, current technology will not yet be able to ensure full operation, which will also require the deployment of personnel. Furthermore, the detection systems would not always be reliable. SNCB expects more from the optical detection systems used in the Netherlands in particular. The pilot project also shows that non-registered users continue to move into the demarcated area. That would mean that assertive control would remain necessary. Finally, it appears that the overall concept of this pilot project responds only in part to the needs and concerns of customers. I am thinking here of prevention of theft and vandalism, quick adoption by means of efficient management of orphan bicycles and so on. So let us wait for the final report. As for your questions about bicycle safes, I can tell you that SNCB is not in favour of using them, because they prevent the sharing of places. The bicycle safe is only reserved for one user and when it does not use the box, another traveller cannot use it. That is why SNCB offers bike sheds, some of which are equipped with access control, which ensures circulation and therefore more places for commuters. I therefore agree with this view. By definition, because of the use of bicycle safes by only one user, they are unable to respond to the great need for bicycle sheds, secured and unprotected. SNCB still manages bicycle safes in two stations. It's about Mouscron and Tournai. In 13 other stations the bicycle safes are managed by the municipality. It's about 5 to 19 places each time. To answer your question in concrete terms, Mr Toventors, I confirm the ambition to increase the number of bicycle parking spaces by 50,000. This fits perfectly with the three major axes of the BE Cyclist plan. In particular, I want to improve the combination of bike and train using a broader cycling-train strategy. Together with the NBMS, I am therefore working on a strategic vision 2021-2032 for intermodality. In this way, passengers should be able to make the train-cycle combination easily for their journeys. Furthermore, it is my objective to increase, together with SNCB, the offer of bikes at the stations, as for Blue-bike. The federal government also wants to make a fist against bicycle theft. The fight against bicycle theft is a priority in the Integrated Safety Framework Paper and a study is under way on the introduction of a central register against bicycle theft. All these measures together should ensure that passengers can easily and comfortably choose the bike, whether or not in combination with the train. For example, I want to convince more people to opt for active and environmentally friendly modes of transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u29	Prime Minister, I would like to congratulate you on the BE Cyclist plan, an ambitious plan which for the first time at federal level develops a number of cycling measures. I agree with you that the combination of bike and train is a golden combination. Blue bikes and therefore bikes certainly have a place in them, but when I come to Brussels myself, I take the train in Turnhout. Before that I drive from Ravels to Turnhout for half an hour. So it's important that I store my bike there well. I am therefore very pleased that SNCB itself is setting up pilot projects, looking at best practice abroad and also taking into account the findings of the pilot project, but I just hope that it does not stick to the justified comments. There are indeed things that need to be considered, but I am convinced that organisations such as Fietssberaad would like to go into consultation with SNCB to see how the problems that still make use difficult can be solved. I also hope that we can go to a system in which one can park one's bike for free at the station for the first 24 hours and only then pay. This can happen in a comfortable way and the golden combination between bike and train can indeed come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u30	Mr Minister, you refer to existing security with access controls and cameras, but experience has shown that despite the closed bicycle sheds and camera protection, a lot of bicycles are still being stolen. Even from secure and closed stalls, as in the station of Leuven, bicycles are still stolen. We therefore need more than just those initiatives to provide people with safety and safety for their bikes. I therefore regret that you are not in favour of the further use of bicycle safes at stations. The reality today is that one cannot use a speed pedal, an electric bike, for commuting by train. This simply costs too much, and as a traveller we do not have sufficient certainty about the safety of our bike. Speedpedelecs cost a month's wage or even more, so one must be crazy to park them at a station today, even when there is camera security. It's gonna take more than that. In my view, there is no reason not to use the bicycle safes either. You refer to the individual character of bicycle safes, but they could still be an additional possibility, on top of a public, collective, combined bicycle storage. That would be an additional service rather than a place replacement. I see no reason not to do so, and I regret that you are not in favour of the initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u31	Minister, I had six partial questions. You answered the first question and thus confirmed your ambition. That's almost obvious. None of the other five partial questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u32	Once again, the Vias Road Safety Report does not show any encouraging figures. The corona effect on traffic figures seems to have been eliminated. Less traffic on the track also caused fewer casualties. At national level, the number of victims is still falling slightly, but certainly in Flanders we are again reaching the figures from 2019. The number of road accidents involving cyclists is increasing. There's been more cycling than ever since the corona pandemic, which is a good development. However, it is bad news that this also increases the number of bicycle accidents. How do you assess the results of the Vias study? How do you explain the large differences in trends between the regions? Have you had contact with your regional colleagues about the results? You indicated that you would revise the road code in order to ensure the safety of active road users, i.e. steppers and steppers. When can we expect the update?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u33	Road safety for motorists, especially for motorists, cyclists and pedestrians, is an absolute priority for me. The Road Safety Report 2021 shows a very slight decrease in the number of road deaths, with a decrease of 21% in Wallonia and an increase of 24% in Flanders compared to last year. On the basis of these figures, it is impossible to explain exactly why the trend in Flanders over that period is so different from that in Wallonia. The difference in curfew may have had a small impact. In Wallonia it was in effect from 22 hours, in Flanders from midnight. The figures for the individual regions for the first six months of the year tend to show a erratic pattern. From 2018 to 2019, for example, there was also a significant increase in Wallonia. It is therefore difficult to identify a clear pattern at the moment. Road safety is a shared competence in which a common commitment of all stakeholders, both from the federal government, police, justice and mobility as well as at regional level, is essential to achieve results. In this philosophy, the next edition of the State General for Road Safety will also be organised in the autumn. Strategies and measures to be taken both at federal and regional level will be adopted to turn road safety in the positive direction with a view to halving the deadly and severely injured victims by 2030 and the implementation of Vision Zero by 2050. All objectives and measures, regardless of the level of competence, will be integrated into an inter-federal plan whose chalk lines will be available at the State General. I work together with regional colleagues and the Ministers for the Interior and Justice. It is very important to me that we are on the same page in this respect. With regard to the revision of the road code with a view to encouraging active road users, I can tell you that stakeholders have already been questioned. This resulted in a list of some 200 proposals. The next step is to analyse this list and compare it with the regional authorities on how to translate it into the road code. In addition, there is another change in the traffic regulations under preparation, which is aimed at active road users, in particular to improve the safety and visibility of bicycles and to introduce a new concept, the middle lane, into the road code, whereby cyclists are given more space on the public road. The intention is to complete that design as soon as possible, this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. For our group, road safety is an important issue. It is true that road safety in our country can only be improved if every government accepts its responsibility. There will therefore be a need for cooperation. I hear you are taking initiatives in this respect, which I welcome. The federal policy level will change the road code. I hear that the 200 proposals of the stakeholders are now under consideration. I also hear from Minister Van Quickenborne that attention is being paid to increasing traffic controls. That is what can happen at federal level. I also call on regional policy levels to assume their responsibilities. I am thinking here of banning freight transport in school environments and villages during the morning or evening pits, the generalisation of zone 30 in village centres and safer infrastructure. If we want to achieve Vision Zero together, zero road casualties, a very nice ambition, we will really have to get to work, because it will not come naturally. So I am pleased to see, Minister, that you are already taking the necessary steps at federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u35	At the end of April, Minister, it was announced in the media that the carousel of political appointments within the Vivaldi government had again gone round and round again. A whole puzzle of political appointments was laid, whereby friendly politicians were overloaded with lucrative posts. One of the planned appointments was the appointment of Laurent Fridays, known to us, as chairman of the board of directors at air traffic controller skeyes. So far, his appointment hasn't been official. The chair of the board of directors at skeyes is still held by a certain Mr Renaud Lorand, a PS cabintard that combines mandates and posts as smoothly as cowboy hero Lucky Luke shoots. Mr President, for what reason has Mr Friday not yet been appointed to the post provided for him? Is there a problem of incompatibility with its high position within the Government of the Buildings? Does the same problem not exist for Mr Lorand, who currently combines his presidency at skeyes with a role as CFO with SNCB? What impact does the administrative uncertainty within the board of directors of skeyes have on the negotiation of a new management agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u36	Minister, did you know that today is the international day of the traffic controllers? I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank the many women and men who ensure our safety 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. In particular, I would also like to thank the people of skeyes, wherever they are employed, in Zaventem, Liège, Antwerp or Charleroi. Those people are doing a very good job. When Vivaldi took office, everything would be different, a new political culture was born. Thus, from then on, all boards of government companies and bodies would be filled with capable people, far away from the political appointments. At least that's what the fairy tale was like, because of course reality is completely different. It is a true trait within the political families of Vivaldi and the board of directors of skeyes and Brussels Airport, to place their husband or wife in those important posts. For example, we were told months ago that skeyes had found a new chairman, namely the top man and also civil servant of the Buildings Regie, Laurent Fridayhs. The same was true of Mr Descheemaecker, Chairman of the BAC Management Board. Mr De Sutter, is it true that Mr Fridays was announced by the Minister for Public Enterprises, Mrs De Sutter, as chairman of skeyes? Why couldn't that continue so far? Who's in charge of skeyes today? Are there still negotiations with skeyes on a new management agreement? If so, under whose direction does that happen? Is it true that Mr Descheemaecker no longer has a mandate at BAC today because of the federal government? When did Marc Descheemaecker get his last payment from BAC? How much was she worth? Did or will Marc Descheemaecker receive a farewell allowance from BAC, as he already received EUR 1.2 million from SNCB for services rendered? Who is the chairman of BAC's board of directors today? Who will that be in 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u37	Mr Toventors, Mrs Vindevoghel, as an autonomous public body, skeyes is subject to the law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises. Article 18 of that Act provides that the King shall appoint a number of ordinary members by decision of the Council of Ministers in proportion to the number of votes attached to the shares held by the Government. There is no legal problem of incompatibility for the current chairman of skeyes. We await the names of the future administrators, who will be notified to us, so that we can proceed to their appointment. The sooner that happens, the better for me. This is particularly important in view of the negotiations on the future management contract for skeyes, in order to impose ambitious air traffic management objectives on our air traffic controller, in order to reduce the impact on the environment and on the overflowing population. Mrs Vindevoghel, Brussels Airport Company is a private company which is largely owned by private investors. That's not my choice, it's just a fact. The appointment of the Chairman of the Management Board is a joint decision of the private shareholders and of the public shareholders. The responsible is the Federal Participation and Investment Company the FPIM, and thus the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If I understand you correctly, the names don't really come through, so the King can't name them. I therefore note that there is apparently noise somewhere in the government on the line. Finally, I have no doubt whatsoever that there is no legal incompatibility of functions. We've known for a long time that we can combine each other to our heart's content.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u39	A while ago, there was a hearing here with the employees of skeyes. Then the staff already uttered a cry of hearts about the lingering social conflict at skeyes. Today, I am told once again that social dialogue is extremely difficult and that there may be another strike announcement. We said at the time that something had to happen urgently and in the meantime people continue to muddle. The biggest problem is with those responsible for skeyes. If we do not want social conflicts again, you will have to cut through a few buttons. You say Brussels Airport Company is a private matter. However, the government still has a minority share in BAC. So she really has something to say about this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u40	Mr President, Mr Toventors, unfortunately it is not clear what area you are talking about. If you have more details, I can check with the SNCB or Infrabel. In general, the very necessary ban on the use of chemical herbicides poses challenges for SNCB. This ecological measure has consequences throughout the territory. SNCB, like other companies, is currently seeking the best solutions to halt the development and invasion of dangerous plants while protecting nature. SNCB tries to remove weeds three to four times throughout the country from spring to summer. This year's climatic conditions, which were unusually wet during the summer, led SNCB to organise a weed removal up to four to five times. Every time SNCB implants it, it must also take account of the specific directives on rail safety. SNCB gives priority to the places where its customers and employees can get in direct contact with the weeds. The station environments are then addressed. Only as a last resort are the areas where no direct contact is possible between the passengers and the staff and the weeds. In view of all these elements, SNCB is endeavouring to meet as many weed removal applications as possible, in accordance with the priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u41	Given the sources, I will not further explain the extensive correspondence I received about the site in Hoeilaart, but it is a general problem. There are set-aside areas where the weeds thrive and cause nuisance and problems in the neighborhood. My question was whether there is sufficient budget available. A reply from SNCB to interested parties did not show that this was the case. If you say that SNCB is trying as much as possible to tackle the areas where there are problems, then I understand that not all problems can be addressed, because of insufficient budget. Given the extra budget of EUR 250 million for rail, I hope that in future this will also be possible and that the problem will be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u42	Minister, last summer work started on the station of Oudenaarde. The escalators had to be removed, which caused a lot of trouble for people who are not well on their feet and people with prams, bikes or steps, who now have to take the stairs. Many people were not aware of these works, so there was an overwhelming at the stairs to the platforms, which caused many problems. Since when are the escalators in the station of Oudenaarde out of use? How old were they? Did they effectively camp with technical problems? Are measures being taken to reduce the burden on travellers? Is there any assistance at the station, for example to help people with a stroller or suitcases? Will work be started soon in the station of Oudenaarde? If so, which one? By whom will these be financed? Will that be by Infrabel or SNCB? When were the new escalators ordered for the station? When will they be placed and inspected? What will be the cost of these interventions at the station of Oudenaarde?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u43	Mrs Vindevoghel, Infrabel and SNCB have drawn up a joint plan for the autonomous access of a large number of stations, in line with the ambition of this government. That plan runs until 2032. Oudenaarde is also included in this plan. The rough construction works are carried out by Infrabel and the finishing with the platform equipment is done by SNCB, all of this subject to the final investment budgets. As for your questions about replacing the escalators, the escalators of Oudenaarde were 30 years old. They were worn out and often broke down. They were therefore decommissioned and broken out at the end of July 2021. The works have no impact on the ability to obtain assistance to take the train. The old escalators were already broken out in order to carry out preliminary construction work. In early May the new escalators were ordered from Schindler. Delivery and placement are scheduled for October. After placement, the finishing and adjustment of the escalators must be carried out. In addition, an inclined plane has to be placed to bridge the height difference with the current platform height. The new escalators are built at the height of the future platform. Therefore, a sloping surface should be placed temporarily. Inspection and recruitment are scheduled to take place by the end of November. Placing the three escalators in Oudenaarde costs just over half a million euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. Indeed, we consider the accessibility of the stations to be very important. It's a good thing they're working on that, even in Oudenaarde. We can see a contradiction. Due to fewer hours of opening hours, less support can also be provided. There are also fewer substation chiefs. These are all matters that often make things worse on the ground. We hope that people will also be invested so that the people who take the train can also be helped.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u45	For many years now, the municipalities of Theux, Pepinster and Sprimont have been confronted with the transit of heavy-duty trucks. Indeed, in order to achieve the junction between the E25 and E42 motorways, these vehicles cross the said communes and cause problems of safety and saturation of the roads as well as of the city centres. To stem this problem, the Walloon minister responsible for road safety announced that she wanted to ban the crossing of these communes by trucks. To enforce this prohibition, signs and automatic plate recognition cameras (ANPR) would be placed. To date, these cameras are well installed but still not functional. No verbalization may be carried out. In order for ANPR cameras to be able to verbalise and prosecute trucks and other heavy-duty vehicles in violation, a ministerial order is required. Indeed, the findings and prosecutions relating to compliance with the Road Traffic Code fall within your jurisdiction. Minister, have you had any contact with Minister Valérie De Bue on this matter? Are you working on a draft ministerial order so that the ANPR cameras installed can verbalize?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u46	Madam, I am well aware of the problem of ANPR cameras in the communes of Theux, Pepinster and Spriont. Our colleague, Mrs Chanson, had rightly raised the issue last May, pointing out the case of the communes of Banneux and Ensival. The introduction of ANPR cameras in the mentioned municipalities – and everywhere else – requires an adaptation of the Royal Decree of 18 December 2002 determining offences, including the finding based on physical evidence provided by automatic devices in the absence of a qualified agent. I have asked my services to prepare a text which contains many adaptations to this royal decree and to article 62 of the law of 16 March 1968 on the road traffic police. The adaptations necessary for the operation of ANPR cameras installed throughout Belgium, and in particular in the municipalities of Theux, Pepinster and Spriment, are part of this amendment. My intention is to incorporate this text into the bill under consideration in this committee in order to ensure that this problem is resolved again this year. It will be a great collaboration between Parliament and the executive. I hope that we will be able to bring about concrete road safety solutions and that these ANPR cameras will finally be able to do their job for the safety of all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answers. The necessary follow-up is therefore carried out. I hope the deadlines can be kept. I promise to come back to you if you don't. You will understand that, from the point of view of the residents, who have seen this equipment installed for months without being able to be used, the situation is difficult to understand and cannot elongate, especially since the limitation of the Cointe tunnel following the floods adds even more pressure on this axis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u48	Minister, I have intervened on several occasions, including your predecessors, to ensure that the Leuven station remains perfectly accessible to travellers. The first question I kept asking was about the defective escalators. This led to the installation of five new escalators by summer. However, they still do not appear to have been realised. The second question was then always about the elevator. It appears that an improvement has been made to the door suspension. The third question then dealt with the roofing. Firstly, can you say that there is a positive effect on the availability of the lifts? Are there still problems with availability, but are they less common? How high is the availability of the lifts since the repair? How high was it before that? What about the contract with Schindler that failed? What steps have you taken to keep that company at the 95% availability level? Secondly, when will the escalators at the underpass on the side Tens finally be replaced? On the Leuven side, defects were also found. How are they viewed? Thirdly, there appears to be water pollution under the roof when it rains heavily. In what way are we going to solve this problem, so that everything is waterproof, both the tunnel and the platforms? Then I have a question about the station of Haasrode. I was very pleased when you said at the time that you would have a feasibility study carried out again. You seemed to be in a positive mood when I asked questions about this in this committee. I was therefore surprised to hear from the media that SNCB was not so positive after all. The media said that the investment is too large and that there are too few potential travellers. However, it seems that the results still need to be explained to the city of Leuven and the parties involved. I find it disappointing that we have had to hear this through the media. I hope to get another answer from you now, because there is still a great need. Tens of thousands of employees and 3,500 students must go to the Haasrode Research Park. About 90 % do so with the Audi A4, which creates a large number of traffic jams. Meanwhile, the station of Leuven is one of Flanders' busiest occupied stations, next to Antwerpen-Central. How did that press leak come about? Is it rumors or is the information based on truth? Have the results been explained to stakeholders? How do you look at the potential of passengers for a station in Haasrode and what parameters are used for this? Will SNCB review the opportunity study on the basis of the elements presented by the partners and stakeholders?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u49	I am surprised that the questions about the stations of Leuven and Haasrode were merged here, because it is really about different subjects. As my colleague and city companion Mrs Van Hoof said, we heard from you at the beginning of this year that SNCB would carry out a new feasibility study on a new station at Haasrode's business site. The city of Leuven is very happy with that. Several stakeholders, such as Voka and UCLL University of Applied Sciences, have been asking for years. Every day 10,000 employees and 3,000 students make the move to the Haasrode business park. Furthermore, a station in Haasrode could also lead people living in Haasrode and the surrounding municipalities to Leuven, where they can switch to other cities such as Antwerp, Brussels and Ghent. This would certainly be a good thing for sustainable housing and work mobility in the region. I was therefore surprised when I read in the media that SNCB felt that there was not enough passenger potential. Has the feasibility study for the Haasrode station been completed? If so, what is the conclusion? Are you prepared to continue consultations with the various stakeholders and the city government of Leuven about a station in Haasrode? What are the next steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u50	The two questions have been put together, but they are indeed different issues. I think this is a bizarre decision myself. As a minister, I always try to answer as accurately as possible. As far as Leuven is concerned, SNCB informs me that the figures show that the lifts in that station have worked more than 95% of the time in recent months. Since the cycle spiral was put into service, the lifts are also less used by cyclists. There are monthly follow-up meetings between SNCB and its contractor. The key performance indicators of the specifications are reviewed. SNCB thus plays a short structural role on the ball, with positive results. The commissioning of the four escalators on the side of Tienen was planned in the week of September 20th. For the escalator at platform 1 the glass canopy must first be finished. The escalators in the main tunnel are replaced by 2026 at the earliest. At the moment, repair work is in progress on the dome, to make it leak-proof. This work was temporarily suspended in week 38 due to the crowds of the World Cup cycling races. SNCB expects work to be completed in October. The flooding in the underpass on the side of Tienen will be solved. SNCB's study on the possible future Haasrode station shows that the potential number of passengers would be lower than expected. In this way, questions arise about the project in general. Contrary to what you say, Mrs Van Hoof, SNCB did communicate the results of a possible station in Haasrode first with the city of Leuven. This happened on September 22nd. Soon the details of the study will be further explained to the city and other stakeholders. So to be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u51	Minister, I note that progress is being made on the Leuven railway station in the various areas, such as the lift and escalators. Even the replacement of the escalators on the Leuven side is envisaged, albeit only by 2026. The overall work will be completed. It is therefore good news that the long-awaited work has finally been carried out and that progress has been made. You were a little shorter about the SNCB study. The details still need to be explained. You have confirmed that the potential is lower than expected. You do not have any figures, but you will give details to the stakeholders concerned. The research park will also be important for the future. In the development plans and in the things proposed by the city, we see that there are still many possibilities, from sports infrastructure to event infrastructure that can be expanded. That means a huge potential that we certainly want to tap into. In this sense, we need to look not only at the current potential, which is constantly increasing, but also at what will be possible in the future, within ten years. We need to exploit this potential to tackle mobility in the city centre, by distracting cars. In this way, rail transport can also be arranged. It is not only the current potential that needs to be considered, but also what is possible in the future of developments in this area. Hopefully there will still be a chance of re-direction, in consultation with the city. I am surprised that in the previous legislature smaller stations in Wallonia were approved with the same objective, think of the station of Ougrée for the students of the University of Liège, to relieve the station of Liège. That has exactly the same objective. What can be done there, should certainly also be possible for campuses in Leuven. After all, the city is expanding and the land is becoming scarcer. So we should actually go to the edge of Leuven to create all kinds of opportunities, both for the university and for sport and culture. There is enormous potential and we should not just look at the cost. What happened in Liège at the time should certainly be possible for Leuven as well. Hopefully there will still be opportunities in the conversation with the various stakeholders, all of whom are very disappointed about the already released communication, which they may not have had in control.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u52	I fully endorse what Mrs Van Hoof said in her reply. In such a study, we should not only look at the potential number of travellers. You say it's lower than expected. I'm very excited to be able to look at that study in more detail. In what way were the calculations made? You say that there will soon be more detailed communication about this and that there will also be consultation with the city of Leuven. I certainly welcome that and hope for a positive follow-up. It certainly lives very strong in Leuven. In Haasrode there is the Brabanthal, a large event hall, where the vaccination centre was also located for the city of Leuven. It indicates how important that site is. For future developments there are all kinds of possibilities if we had a train station there. Not only the transport to the site, so the travelers who go to the site to work or study, should be taken into account, the travellers who live nearby should also be looked at and the way in which they can get on the track via that station. You want to invest a lot in the railroad. We are certainly a partner in this from the city of Leuven.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u53	Minister, I will refer to my question. I would like to stress that I submitted it on 14 July. I hope that red dust was not dangerous, because it is now October and I have still not received an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u54	Mrs Bury, I am indeed aware of the complaints of the inhabitants of Machelen about red dust that they found in their garden. That is why my services have contacted the environmental service of the municipality of Machelen. They had the red dust analyzed microscopically by a lab in Antwerp. The red precipitation would be related to the formation of algae. They see a possible link with the arrival of the A400M to Melsbroek. Due to its greater manoeuvrability, this aircraft turns off shorter to land at the airport and it flies over the municipality of Machelen. Since the plane left for Islamabad, the problem has ceased. According to my information, the municipality is considering writing a letter to the Defense Department to address the problem and to engage the Flemish environmental inspection. Perhaps you could also ask my colleague, Minister of Defence Ludivine Dedonder about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u55	Thank you, Minister, I will. But I don't understand it very well: you said "microsopically examined" and I also heard the word "algae." Algae coming out of a plane?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u56	Those are algae coming from an airplane, which is indeed the hypothesis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u57	I'll put the question to the Secretary of Defense, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u58	"Mr Gilkinet, the Marbehan-Croix-Rouge line on the town of Etalle, which had been financed at great cost at the time of the installation of the Valvert company, is the subject of a desire by the communes Etalle-Habay-Tintigny to reactivation in partnership with a series of companies (Valvert-Scidus-Artbois). Many meetings were held on this subject, both with representatives of Infrabel and SNCB and with the Mobility Unit of the RW. In the event of a failure to complete the dossier, a request on the tourist component was made to us (reasons).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u59	Thank you for your answer."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u60	Mr Piedboeuf, I was alerted by the temporary laying of the rails on the said lines, which caused a certain stir in the area. I was questioned by the mayor of Etalle, whom I was able to answer and whom I hope I was able to reassure. First of all, I would like to clarify the situation by presenting some factual elements. Lines 155 and 289 are industrial lines which were decommissioned in 2015 and on which no trains have been operated since 2009. In 2019, they were disconnected from the network. In early August of this year, SPW, the Wallonia Public Service, requested permission from Infrabel to temporarily remove the rails from grade crossing number 7 on line 289 as part of its national renewal work 87. With the agreement of the Mobility FPS, Infrabel responded favourably to the request of the Wallonia Public Service, firstly because the possible re-use of lines 155 and 289 would in any event require the removal of the road surface of the crossings to verify the condition of the rails and ties and, secondly, the removal of the rails in the crossing has no impact on a possible decision to re-service these lines. The status of these lines remains unchanged. The line was out of service and the rest, this temporary removal of the rails does not mean that it is decommissioned. It also comes to my mind that the crossing is not really removed, the lights and barriers remain. Only rails are temporarily disassembled. On the other hand, the removal of a crossing is not a brake on the reopening of lines. The infrastructure manager will of course remain available if requested by a company or project leader as part of a structured application to discuss any reclamation proposal and line-specific. According to the project, a budget framework could be established and the asphalting of the crossing would not in any case be a blocking factor. As these elements have been clarified, I have not waited for the factual elements of Infrabel and my administration to act. I sent a letter to Infrabel asking him to make a clear commitment in order to restore the track and guarantee me that the cost of this restoration is not a hindrance to any new rail freight traffic in this region. Of course, you can count on my commitment and determination in such cases, given the government's goal of doubling the volume of goods transported by rail by 2030. If an opportunity arises, this line can be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u61	Minister, I am recording the answer with satisfaction as there is a commitment if the request is to restore the line. However, the demand will be there because it works in three communes with at least six companies. So, there'll be a suite.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u62	Mr President, Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u63	Mr President, Minister, the renovation of axis 3 between Brussels and Luxembourg is one of your priorities, as is your Grand-Ducal counterpart. This is a case that I am particularly monitoring. This work will make it possible, in particular, to put Luxembourg at two hours from Brussels, whereas at present it takes three hours for the same journey. Nevertheless, the amount of this modernisation work in the press is EUR 400 million. Among the sources of funding, you mention, first, the Boost plan. The latter is an additional allocation from the Federal State for Infrabel of the order of €27.6 million for railway infrastructure in Wallonia. According to Infrabel, this amount would be used to finance "the maintenance of two lines threatened in the short term, namely the line 43 Marloie-Bomal and the line Cuemes-Quevy". We can already exclude the Boost plan for the financing of 400 million euros. Secondly, you mention the means put in place under the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience. Of the 275 million euros of investment in Belgian rail, 70 would be spent on the modernisation of axis 3. Thirdly, the European Commission proposes that you participate in the next joint call for the European Connecting Europe Facility project in October 2021. For example, the 2014 call for projects under the EuroCap-Rail project had made it possible to release €35.5 million in European funds for the improvement of the same axis. In concrete terms, even with these two or even three financing possibilities, we are unfortunately far from the account compared to the 400 million euros mentioned at the beginning of the intervention. Mr Minister, is the figure of EUR 400 million still relevant with regard to the costs of finalising the modernisation of axis 3? The year of completion is estimated at 2028. Is that still the case? In addition to the means I have just mentioned, what are the other possibilities for national or European funding that would make it possible to effectively finance the renovation of this axis?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u64	Mr President, Minister, the federal government has just announced that a further €250 million will complement the Boost plan. Part of this amount is intended to strengthen the Brussels-Luxembourg line, and I am obviously very pleased with it. Currently, the completion of work on this line is estimated at 2027. Minister, are these new budgets going to speed up the schedule of work? What work will this amount be devoted to on axis 3? Finally, and I suspect you would like me to ask no more questions about the Relay Park (P+R) in Viville, but can the latter benefit from this new contribution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u65	Mr President, Mr Toventors, Mrs Hanus, Mr Arens, as you know, it is my ambition to turn the track into the backbone of mobility in Belgium, and it is also in the government statement. To achieve this, it is essential that the train is made more attractive than the car. Today it takes almost 3 hours to reach Luxembourg City by train from Brussels and vice versa. That's too long, the journey time by car is 2.5 hours without traffic jams. My aim is to reduce travel time by train between the two European capitals as much as possible. That is my ambition, which I share with my Luxembourg colleague, Minister for Mobility François Bausch. Therefore, Infrabel modernises this axis, called axis 3, to increase commercial speed from 120 to 160 kilometers per hour. This ambition was repeated and confirmed at the Belgian-Luxembourg summit in La Gaichel on 31 August. This is a very important axis for our two capitals, including for the international transport of goods or people beyond Luxembourg – to go to Strasbourg, for example, when you are a Member of the European Parliament. The budget still needed today until the completion of the modernisation of Axis 3 is around EUR 300 million. An end of work for 2028 remains realistic, provided that the financial resources are available. That is why I have been fighting every day since 1 October 2020. The funds available are Infrabel's traditional investment allocations – which you have not mentioned, Mrs Hanus – the European Recovery Fund, part of which is dedicated to rail and modernisation of this axis, the EUR 250 million investment plan that the Federal Government has just decided during the budgetary conclave, some of which will be used to finance this work as well as some European subsidies. Mobilising European resources complementary to the resources invested by the Federal State was the objective of the letter I sent jointly with my Luxembourg colleague to the European Commission. In March 2021, we got a positive signal from Commission Vice-President Frans Timmermans. Since then, the technical discussions have continued constructively. I confirm that I will very shortly file a dossier for the financing of the modernisation of axis 3 in the framework of the European call Connecting Europe Facility. Citizens expect attractive rail connections between large cities by day and night. I am pursuing this goal by mobilizing all possible means for rail and ensuring that they are used in the best possible way by our Infrabel network operator. With regard to the Viville P+R, I will answer it as part of your other question, Mr. Arens. It seems to me more appropriate not to mix the two subjects, my aim here being mainly to drive trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u66	Minister, I understand from your reply that the deadline, as you have said, is 2028. I heard Mr Arens speak about 2027 and our Prime Minister De Croo even proposed the end of the present legislature during a visit. Anyway, 2028 is fine. For the rest, I am very pleased that this connection is being worked out so that a reasonable man such as Mr Arens and his fellow Luxembourgers will have a better fate than is currently the case, because three hours of travelling time is a very long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u67	Minister, I have taken note of all the elements that you have mentioned to us and I will come back soon with other questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u68	Minister, like you, I like to see trains rolling. I would even like to see them drive at even higher speeds so that the journey time between Luxembourg and Brussels will decrease. I hope you will answer my question on the P+R differently, because if you want to see trains running, you have to allow citizens to go to these trains and park. Unless the free system is introduced, the revenue will be higher if the trains are complete and we will be able to further upgrade the network. This is what an Ecolo Minister like you should implement as soon as possible, otherwise you don't wear your ecologist label well!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u69	Mr President, Minister, during the debates on the Vivaldi policy statement, the aircraft tax was already mentioned. What struck us was the lack of clarity as to its practical implementation. EUR 30 million has already been entered in the budget for 2022 and EUR 40 million in the budget for 2023, but we do not yet know how much the tax will be for those taking short flight. Some sources within the Vivaldi government talked about 1 euro, others about 5 euro and others about 20 euro. How did the EUR 30 million revenue come about? How many flight movements is it based on? The flight tax includes the shortest distance flights. Which routes exactly will they apply to? Will the flight tax also apply to transit flights and transfer flights? Will the flight tax also apply to short-distance cargo aircraft? How many movements by freight aircraft under 500 kilometers did Belgium count in 2019? How many flight movements by passenger aircraft under 500 kilometers did Belgium count in 2019? Vivaldi is counting on EUR 30 million in 2022 and EUR 40 million in 2023. This is an increase of one third, or 33%, in 2023 compared to 2022. Do you expect more short-haul flights in 2023? After all, that would immediately point to the failure of the measure, as you count on more short-distance passengers in 2023 than in 2022. Or will the rates go up in 2023? How much CO2 emissions will we save by introducing the aircraft tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u70	Mr President, Minister, I would like to return to last week's debate. In De Standaard we read that we are thinking about moving that 500 kilometers. I also hear in the corridors that some parties want to get rid of that 500 kilometers restriction. The Open Vld is even talking about abolishing it. I've got a problem with that plane tax. I understand that emissions of CO2 from air traffic must be addressed. I've been reading the election programs. The Open Vld did not say anything about aircraft tax, but the CD&V did argue for an introduction of the aircraft tax by 2021, below 800 kilometers and progressive. One has to pay more if one flies first class than if one flies economy. For the rest, I have found few parties that have expressed their views on this issue. CD&V still has the courage and conviction to talk about new taxes, most parties remain silent about new taxes in their election programme. You're going for a story where people want to do something about CO2 emissions. You're the greenest government ever. At least that's what you're saying. I don't have a problem with that, but I do have a problem with the way it worked out. I have a problem with a tax that you say is intended to be behavior-driven. All taxes introduced have the intention to control behavior. For this purpose, taxes, except of course, are intended to cover the state's expenditure and the state's expenditure. You want to control behavior and you want to collect 30 or 40 million euros with an aircraft tax of a few euros. Mr Bouchez talks about a few euros, Minister De Sutter talks about 20 euros, Minister Van der Straeten says she will not repeat it, because the government still has to discuss it. By the way, it was particularly painful to see how the members of the government were looking at each other. Wouter De Vriendt stood there for two hours, sweating for his maiden speech as group leader, and he got the full load. It was clear that the aircraft tax had not yet been agreed. You say that you want to send behavior, that you will introduce a tax and that people will have to take the train in order to get to their destination. There is something to be said for this, there is something to be said for doing something about CO2 emissions and there is something to be said for trying to get people more on the train. I did some digging this afternoon. If you want to go from Brussels to Amsterdam today, you will be on the train for 2 hours and 50 minutes and a 55-minute plane ride. I also know that one cannot just get on the plane and that one has to check in first. To Paris it is 1 hour and 22 minutes by train, 55 minutes by plane. Frankfurt is 3 hours and 9 minutes by train, 1 hour by plane. That's getting more interesting. Strasbourg is 4 hours and 16 minutes by train, 2 hours and 55 minutes by plane. Basel is 6 hours and 42 minutes by train, 1 hour and 5 minutes by plane. Even with check-in one will still be there faster. One should not be at the airport 7 hours in advance. That would be absurd. I've only looked at the airports within 500 km. There are 5 hours and 2 minutes by train and 1 hour and 15 minutes by plane in Brussels-Hamburg, 6 hours and 32 minutes by train and 1 hour and 15 minutes by plane in Brussels-Zürich, 8 hours and 2 minutes by train and 1 hour and 10 minutes by plane in Brussels-Stuttgart and 4 hours and 16 minutes by train and 1 hour and 5 minutes by plane in Brussels-Stuttgart. Whoever thinks that the behavior will be controlled and that people will choose to sit on a train for 8 hours... After all, they are mainly business passengers who fly on the 500 km routes. Do you think that people will sit on the train for 8 hours instead of 1 hour on the plane, because you will charge a fee of a few euros? Forget it! Who are you kidding? It's just a flat tax increase. That won't control the behavior. I have also had a major problem for years with the fact that there is no HST connection at Zaventem airport. All these people have to go to Brussels-South. There is even talk about the line to Amsterdam. That is the only one we have, the intercity from the airport to Amsterdam. That route takes a very long time and the train stops everywhere. That train would now also have Rotterdam as its destination and Amsterdam would transfer to Brussels-Zuid. That's what I hear in the walkways. SNCB absolutely wants to make that switch: the airport can still serve Rotterdam and Brussels-Zuid will serve Amsterdam in the future. I hope you will not be able to agree to that. There are no HST trains on Zaventem. You will say that such a tax exists in our neighbouring countries, but there are some HST connections at Schiphol Airport, in Paris, in Germany, where there is nothing here. One must always and everywhere via Brussels-South, which also takes time. Do you really think that the African community, which is massively using Brussels Airlines to fly to Central Africa, is going to take one of our big, interesting hubs with all their luggage first to Paris? You're dreaming. That's not gonna happen. I just don't think it makes any sense that you're gonna control the behavior with that plane tax. It's just a tax. When it comes to business passengers, the company will pay 20 euros. So there's nothing behavior-driven about that at all. I have a second problem with the fact that there is no level playing field: only Zaventem is affected. Is that a coincidence? Wouter De Vriendt says that not everything must be seen at Community level, but it is still a coincidence. We see the same thing in the file on skeyes. It's always exactly a coincidence. It is therefore completely unfair that only Zaventem should be affected. It is so important that Zaventem remains an international top airport as a hub. You should know that, Minister. People just don't do that. It's not serious. The aviation sector is currently only working on a capacity of 50%. There is still a crisis in the aviation sector. Next year, due to corona, the top capacity we knew a few years ago is still not expected. Solving an aircraft tax to the aviation sector is not acceptable. Brussels Airlines has received millions of euros of support, with which all parties agreed, your party as well. Now you are putting Brussels Airlines in a weakened competitive position by levying a tax that mainly affects Brussels Airlines, your own home carrier. That is unacceptable. There is no alternative, because there is no infrastructure for high-speed trains. Finally, there is also a legal problem that was raised by Michel Maus. He's referring to the Chicago Convention. The municipality of Zaventem wanted to introduce a tax at the airport a few years ago, per flight movement. Brussels Airport has challenged this, along with some airlines. You can rest assured that the aircraft tax now proposed will also be fully challenged, please bear in mind my words. The airport and airlines will put their entire battery legal on it, so that the aircraft tax will be destroyed. The ruling in the case against the municipality of Zaventem fell in 2005. In that judgment, the Council of State cites Article 15 of the Chicago Convention to destroy Zaventem's tax. Article 15 of the Chicago Convention provides that no fees, rights or other costs may be imposed by a Contracting State for the sole right of flying over, entering or leaving its territory by an aircraft of a Contracting State. That treaty has direct effect and was thus invoked by the Council of State to destroy the tax of the municipality of Zaventem. So you will run loose again with the aircraft tax against the wall, because it will be destroyed. It's just amateurism. What was the case now? Money had to be found that night, otherwise the picture wouldn't be right. The Prime Minister was already tired. Minister Wilmès was already gone, but she was recalled, which made her ambitant. A few million euros had to be found because there was a deficit of between 30 and 40 million euros on the budget. A further EUR 30 million from the fight against tax fraud was perhaps a bit exaggerated, because then it becomes completely unrealistic. Then it was decided to introduce an aircraft tax. The Greens are asking parties and the government wants to present itself as ecological. I wasn't there, but that's probably how it went. The corridors are often more interesting than the plenary. Minister, how will the EUR 30 million estimated revenue be extracted from the aircraft tax? What are the conditions and the framework? What amount is added per flight ticket and for which destinations? Are transfer passengers also subject to the tax? Will this money be used to improve rail infrastructure between Belgium and airports within 500 kilometres, or will it go to the general budget of resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u71	Minister, Alexander De Croo announced in his government statement a week ago the introduction of the CO2 flight tax or the boarding tax to use his word, for short-haul flights up to 500 kilometres. For the years 2022, 2023 and 2024, 30 million and two times 40 million were promised. This gave rise to a nice discussion, which demonstrated that nothing was really clear about the new tax. How does the government achieve the budgeted revenue of EUR 30 million and EUR 40 million twice? Based on how many flight movements was that calculated? Will the so-called transferrs to a long-distance flight also be subject to the tax? What amount will passengers who take the plane for a short-haul flight ultimately have to pay in addition? On what system is this calculated? What criteria have allowed short-haul flights to be delineated at 500 kilometres? Will the 500-mile standard remain unchanged? What effect will the introduction of the flight tax have on CO2 emissions? How much will it actually go down by? Finally, was consultations with the aviation sector preceded by the decision to introduce the flight tax? If so, with which actors? What were their findings?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u72	The entry fee is an unprecedented and important political and budgetary decision of the latest budgetary conclave. It is the first time in Belgium that such a tax policy is implemented, in accordance with the government agreement. It is time for us to join our neighbouring countries, the Netherlands, France, Germany, by making such a contribution to airline tickets. As is the case for many of the measures decided in the budgetary conclave, the government will now monitor their implementation. The Minister of Finance has been entrusted with this task, assisted by all his colleagues, including myself as Minister of Mobility. He's working on that right now. What is contained in the conclave is simple. The expected revenue is EUR 30 million in 2022. In the coming weeks, it will be clarified which flights will be involved and how much will be charged on the tickets. Nothing has been decided on this yet. The relevant legislation will then be submitted to Parliament. Then we can debate it and vote on it. The most important thing is that a step has been taken in the right direction. In its budget, the government confirms the ambition of its agreement a year ago to support more sustainable mobility, for example through the €250 million in new rail investments and the funds released for the development of night trains in Belgium. It's certainly not enough, but we have to start somewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u73	Minister, I have received very few answers to many questions. We didn't get much better with your answer. I conclude that this is actually a budgetary measure and not an environmental measure. I have just asked in the debate on night trains whether you will turn the airport into an international hub. If that is not included in the debate, then we are not taking a step forward to trade short-haul flights for the train. There must be an alternative for the passengers if they are to take the train. What is now on the table is a purely budgetary measure and not an environmental measure. After all, you did not answer the question of what the decision will mean for CO2 emissions. You don't know anything yet. It's wet fingering.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u74	Mr Vice-Prime Minister, this method is of course not serious. You cannot tell a private company in which you are a co-shareholder through FPIM and which is in crisis, especially Brussels Airport, that you are still looking at how you will introduce the tax, while our airport in Zaventem is the second largest economic engine in our country, after the port of Antwerp? I'm not gonna stand for that. I am a Member of Parliament for Flemish Brabant, and last summer we adopted a wide-ranging resolution on our aviation of the future, also on an ecological level. We have all approved that resolution. There was nothing in there about a tax. On the contrary, we have always said that there would be consultation. Mr Toventors asked if there was any consultation. There was no meeting. Nothing. Zero. You do not answer the questions asked at all. You're just saying something. There hasn't been a meeting. The aviation sector fell out of the sky. Brussels Airport, Brussels Airlines, the airlines knew nothing. What amateurism! Is that a way of ruling now? Is that how you treat a private company that's such a big economic engine? The tens of thousands of workers deserve better. It's just an aberrant. I've heard some interesting things from Mrs. Vindevoghel. It is a budgetary measure, not an environmental measure. That is a good thing! Of course it is not an environmental measure, it is simply a flat tax increase, which happens to only happen once more to hit a Flemish airport. You then call it a step in the right direction. No, it's not a step in the right direction at all. Do you really think someone wants to sit on the train for hours when he's on the plane in an hour? Do you really think you can do that with a tax of a few euros? The tax can go up to 80 euros, but do you really think so? Who are you kidding? Delete the charge, forget it. I filed a motion, which I'd like to hand over. By the way, I think that the airport file is really being mismanaged. You kicked Marc Descheemaecker out while all the private shareholders wanted him to stay. He was very skilled, but Open Vld told him to leave. There was another score to be settled, because he had come over to the N-VA. There hasn't been a president for five months now. The skeye agreement, which is still pending, doesn't look good either, and now this... It doesn't deal with the country's second largest economic pole. That's not correct. Mr Vandenbroucke and colleagues, at least the Flemish parties should dare to say something about this. Let's stay serious for a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u75	I'm stunned by what's being staged here. It's really hallucinating. Last week it was already clear that the flight tax was wet finger work. There was no clear answer to any question about concrete facts, figures or modalities. In fact, EUR 110 million was entered in the budget over a period of 3 years. For what and who and how that money was to serve, it was still to be seen. The government was already counting on it. A week later, you still have no way of telling what you want to do, how that will happen and how you will get those amounts. There is really no question you can answer. It is clear that the matter has not been thoroughly discussed in the government and that the violins are not like-minded. Some parties want to get rid of it. Liberals like Mr De Croo and Mr Bouchez are talking about EUR 5 to EUR 6, Mrs De Sutter says EUR 20. You can't confirm the 500 km limit either, because it would seem to be under pressure. Your intention is to just do something, but what, you don't know yet. Apart from all these modalities, the Flemish interest is manifest against the new flight tax, which is a pest tax. It is clear that it will not be steering, there are no alternatives and we are convinced that there is also a legal problem. In addition, there is unequal treatment, as Charleroi airport is spared. Finally, the aviation sector is also being cut in the back. The hard-working citizen, who is already faced with high bills and a huge tax burden, and who saves a lot of money to take the plane on holiday, is once again being squeezed out. Whereas, as well as the numerous uncertainties, you do not know at all what will happen with regard to the organisation, the form, the figures, the modalities, the consequences for CO2 and you cannot answer any questions, so that I too will table a motion on behalf of my party.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u76	The President: At the end of this discussion, the following motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Theo Francken and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Theo Francken and Mr Frank Toventors and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - having regard to the government's announcement during last week's policy statement to introduce a so-called boarding fee for short flights of up to 500 kilometres; - having regard to the fact that the government stated in its previous declaration that the tax should amount to EUR 30 million in 2022 and from 2023 onwards, - having regard to the fact that the government stated that the user of such a flight would have to pay an initial amount of EUR 5-6 and ultimately a maximum of EUR 20; - whereas, in the meantime, it appears that the 500 km range would apply only to flights departing from Zaventem and Deurne and not, for example, from Charleroi; - whereas it affects only Flemish airports, - whereas, in the meantime, it appears that the government, aware that the proposed 500 km range is insufficient to generate the planned 30 million, intends to increase the range of action to 750 kilometres; - whereas, in the meantime, it appears that the government's proposed tax of EUR 20 per user is well insufficient to deliver the planned EUR 30 million and that the passenger will therefore have to cough up a higher amount; - whereas the introduction of such a flight tax will result in passengers travelling abroad as departure ports in order to avoid the tax; - whereas the introduction of such a tax will therefore have a negative effect on the country's largest airport; - whereas the OECD report of April 2021 stated that Belgium has the highest tax burden in the world, i.e. 51.5%, - whereas this flight tax will only increase the incredibly high load pressure; asks the government - refrain from introducing the flight tax announced in the policy statement." A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr. Theo Francken and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Theo Francken et Frank Toventors and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - having regard to the announcement made last week by the Government, in its declaration, of the introduction of a boarding tax on short-haul flights up to 500 kilometres; - in view of the fact that the government indicated in the above-mentioned declaration that this tax should bring in EUR 30 million in 2022 and even EUR 40 million from 2023; - in view of the fact that the Government has specified that passengers of such flights should initially pay 5 to 6 euros and finally a maximum amount of 20 euros; - Whereas it is now apparent that the 500 km radius would apply only to flights departing from Zaventem and Deurne and not from Charleroi for example; - Whereas this limit means that only Flemish airports will be "touched"; Whereas in the meantime it appears that the government - aware that the proposed 500 km radius will not be sufficient to collect the €30 million planned - intends to increase the limit to 750 km; - Whereas, in the meantime, it appears that the €20 per passenger tax proposed by the Government is far from sufficient to collect the €30 million planned and that passengers will therefore have to pay a higher amount; - Whereas the introduction of this tax on airline tickets will result in passengers travelling abroad to take the plane in order to avoid the tax; - Whereas the introduction of this tax will therefore have a negative effect on the country's largest airport; - Whereas in its report published in April 2021, the OECD notes that Belgium is the country with the highest tax burden in the world, i.e. 51.5%; - Whereas this tax on airline tickets will only increase this incredibly high tax burden; recommends to the Government - to refrain from introducing the tax on airline tickets announced in the government declaration." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Frank Troasts and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Theo Francken and Mr Frank Toventors and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - considering the Government's plans to introduce a flight tax/shipping fee for short distance flights, - considering the existing uncertainty as to the distance within which short distance flights are counted; - considering the uncertainty about the additional cost (fly tax/shipping fee) that passengers will have to pay for short distance flights; - having regard to the uncertainty as to the expected revenue for the State by introducing a flight tax/shipping tax; - considering the unclearness of the impact on the aviation sector of introducing a flight tax/shipping fee; - having regard to the fact that the government plans for the flight tax/shipping fee are competitively detrimental to Zaventem airport in relation to Charleroi airport; - in view of the difficult economic conditions currently prevailing in the air transport sector; asks the government - to remove the plans to introduce a flight tax and, in other ways, to take account of the promotion of the railway.' A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Frank Troosters and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Theo Francken et Frank Toventors and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - considering the Government's plans to introduce a tax on airline tickets/boarding charges for short-haul flights; - Considering the uncertainty as to the perimeter within which the distance of short-haul flights will be calculated; - considering the uncertainty as to the surcharge (airline ticket tax/boarding charge) that passengers will have to pay for short-haul flights; - considering the uncertainty as to the amount of revenue to be paid to the State by the introduction of a tax on airline tickets/boarding tax; - considering the lack of clarity as to the impact of introducing a tax on airline tickets/boarding charges on the air sector; - in view of the fact that the Government's plan to introduce a tax on airline tickets/boarding tax weakens the competitive position of Zaventem airport in relation to Charleroi airport; - considering the difficult economic situation in which the aviation sector is currently in; asks the government - to abandon the plan to introduce a tax on airline tickets and to tackle the promotion of rail in other ways." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u77	Mr President, it is a question that I also ask in principle in writing. After all, it contains a lot of figures. However, I wrote to them in writing. I get an incomplete answer, which refers to another answer. When I look for the other answer, it does not answer the original question either. So I'm almost obliged to put them orally. For me, the answer can be given in writing and you do not need to look into all these figures today. I'll leave that open. For the rest, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u78	Mr President, Mr Toventors, what you are saying is correct. Indeed, I did not provide you with figures on the staff of SNCB per district, but overall figures per year. I note that you are asking me a lot of written or oral questions on the figures for SNCB's staff by district, by language role, by station, by grade or by combination of them. SNCB is, on the one hand, a federally autonomous public body that lets its trains run from one side of the country to the other. That's good, too. I would remind you, on the other hand, of the Rules of Procedure which state that questions intended solely to obtain statistical information are in fact inadmissible. Many of the detailed summaries you are asking for are intended only for internal use by SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u79	Mr Minister, we are having another discussion with Mr Roggeman from the previous session, namely that we do not want to answer questions and do not want to produce figures on SNCB. Firstly, on your point on the Rules of Procedure, I do not need to repeat what Mr Roggeman said earlier. I'll give him my full support. Secondly, I don't even understand the problem. The data I am asking for are data which, in my opinion, should simply be easily removed from the system in any more or less efficient administration or personnel administration, with the ICT capabilities that exist today in a modern administration. How many times have I asked you about the planned staff frameworks? When I ask about those frameworks in the railway police, I get the data in no time nicely delivered by Mrs Verlinden. In the case of SNCB, however, this is not possible. All you do is point out that you don't give them. That concludes the discussion. I'm looking at the other members now. Perhaps we should discuss in committee afterwards the way in which we deal with such matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u80	Minister, at the beginning of this year we received very optimistic reports from SNCB on the punctuality of trains in 2020. There were far fewer passengers and that apparently had positive consequences for punctuality. Punctuality records were broken. It was the best numbers in 30 years, so we could read. These optimistic messages are still somewhat in contrast to reality, because we all know that there is a certain amount of cosmetics involved. For example, there is punctuality when the delay does not exceed 6 minutes. In addition, delays in intermediate stations do not count, one only looks at the terminal station. Also abolished trains are conveniently excluded from the punctuality figures. This creates a distorted picture of the statistical figures relative to the experience of travellers. It is an old very, which has already been mentioned in this committee in the past. I refer in particular to Resolution 54K1984/001, from the previous legislature of my colleague, Inez De Coninck. That resolution called for a different and realistic objective of punctuality and was adopted by a very broad majority in plenary, with particular reference to the question of the management contract. That is why, Minister, I would have liked to test again whether you agree that the current punctuality objectives and figures no longer meet today's reality. Secondly, what changes to the punctuality objectives will you register in the upcoming management contract? Finally, are you in favour of seeking a European standard of punctuality and coordinating it supranationally? You want better European rail links, so I think it is logical that we should extend this ambition in standards of this kind and give uniform clarity to international travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u81	Mr Roggeman, punctuality is indeed one of the important factors of attractive rail transport. Negotiations for the new management contract between the federal state, SNCB and Infrabel are under way. Objectives will be set for the different performance domains, as described in the specification for public service contracts. The discussion on how punctuality is calculated is currently under way. The punctuality aspect of train traffic occupies an important place in both SNCB and Infrabel. A critical performance indicator shall be provided punctuality which shall be strengthened in relation to the current objective. It may be appropriate to maintain the existing definition, in particular the margin of 5 minutes and 59 seconds. This allows us to use the existing data, both for setting the concrete objectives and for monitoring and analysing future punctuality figures. At European level, Infrabel is involved in the European Working Group PRIME, Platform of Rail Infrastructure Managers in Europe. It examines the definitions, applicability and possibilities of uniform punctuality measurement within 15 European countries. However, the comparability of punctuality rates between countries is not evident. For example, differences in structure, transport system and distances mean that the punctuality of the various networks can never be compared. In addition, the changeover to a uniform system brings with it the necessary additional work for infrastructure managers. A transitional period should therefore also be provided for the delivery of the two systems and it would be difficult to monitor developments in the longer term. For this year, SNCB has set an internal target of 92% punctuality. This objective is consistent with the current situation and is also well above the targets of the year 2012, to which you refer. Although this objective is temporary, it is partly facilitated by a slightly adapted transport plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. I believe that the current method of punctuality measurement is outdated. The new management contracts are an opportunity to modernise them. I understand from your reply that this discussion is currently under way, but that the possible maintenance of the current system is also on the table. I'd like to take the opportunity to break a lance for a change. It is important that we provide the passengers with security. The reliability of the network is still one of the most crucial aspects of rail services. One aspect of this is clarity about the punctuality and clue and certainty about the departure times of the trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u83	Minister, I have a question about a Luxembourg railway line, which for once does not come from Mr Arens. We can watch the hedge sometime, can't we? I would also like to read in the French-speaking press that, at the request of some Luxembourg colleagues, you asked SNCB and Infrabel to carry out a study on the possible reopening of line 163 between Bastogne and Libramont. That line has been closed for several years as it no longer met the safety standards in force. It is an interesting policy act that, at the request of some local authorities and Members of Parliament, you take the initiative of reopening a railway line. Since there may be a precedent, I would like to ask you a few questions. Are there any railway lines that you are considering reopening, for which such studies are ongoing and which do not rely, for example, on regional transport priorities? What is your view on offering alternative modes of transport for loss-making railway lines? Under what circumstances do you have such reopenings of railway lines investigated? Is that a question that could also come from the committee members?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u84	Mr Roggeman, following a specific request, the infrastructure manager can document the technical aspects relating to the possible reopening of a railway line. This is the case, for example, for line 163, to which you refer, for line 154 and for line 18. The analyses are carried out in the context of my ambition to make rail more attractive for both freight and passenger transport. However, the financial resources must be allocated as a matter of priority where they have the best effect. Moreover, the extension of the network does not specifically involve the reopening of lines. Projects such as the bypass in Mechelen, the third and fourth tracks on line 50A between Ghent and Bruges or the modernisation of the bundles in Zeebrugge are equally examples of railway developments that contribute to the strengthening of the network and thus increase the attractiveness of the rail. There are many other examples, such as the link between Ghent and Terneuzen, which is important for Mr Vandenbroucke, and other forward-looking projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u85	Like Dinant-Givet, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your list is almost exclusively concerned with railway projects which have an administrative history. These projects, for example, concern the federal government by one of the regional authorities, about the regional wish list of regional rail priorities. However, this is not the case in the case of line 163. I notice that there is little structure, little line in this kind of question. Apparently, ad hoc consideration can be given to the possibility of additional rail projects being developed. An objective basis for this is largely absent. It seems as if a research phase is being started if a certain asking region is knocking hard enough on the table. I'm missing a long-term planning. There's not much line in it. This also applies to Mr Gilson's comments on the possible closure of railway lines. These statements are in the same vein: there is very little hold, little long-term planning. The investment policy for such an important policy area may, in my view, be a little more well-founded.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u87	Mr Roggeman, contacts and consultations with civil society are very important to me. There has already been a lot of contact between my employees and myself on the one hand, and the CRB and the NAR on the other. In May, for example, the cabinet discussed the process of drawing up management contracts and specifications. I myself received the CRB and the NAR on June 30. They presented their joint opinion on future contracts. An exchange of views was then held on the opinion in question. Their advice is very interesting and very much in line with my objectives, in particular the urgent need to draw up new contracts, a strategic vision for the railways and the duration of the multi-annual investment plan. Important points were raised, such as tariff policy, the role of SNCB in an integrated multimodal mobility system and infrastructure maintenance. Following the publication of the specifications, a broad consultation was held between May and June 2021. More than 45 institutional and socio-economic actors, passenger associations, families, young people, seniors and environmentalists shared their concerns and suggestions with us. The aim is to draw up a solid management contract that meets the expectations of civil society. These are important stakeholders that will continue to be consulted, in addition to the mandatory contacts foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u89	Mr President, Minister, young people from school can benefit from favourable forms of travel between their place of residence and the school, but this system is mainly aimed at traditional forms of education. There are also forms of alternance learning, where young people alternate the school with work experience they gain in the workplace. They must not only go to the school but also to the workplace in question. That is where the shoe is pinching, as SNCB does not yet have any adapted formulas for school rates that meet them. After all, one can only travel to one fixed destination. There is therefore a gap in the charging of SNCB. Minister, would you like to introduce such a formula?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u90	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, the opinion of the CRB and the NAR indeed recommends that young people who learn and work alternance, regardless of their training institution, should be able to benefit from SNCB's school fees for their school trips. At present there is no specific benefit formula for these young people, as they can use the two current advantages formulas for students. Both for their trips to school and for their trips to their professional training, they can use the student subscription and the Student Multi. In addition to the well-known alternative learning institutions, IFAPME, Espace Formation PME and Centre for Adult Education, Syntra Vlaanderen was also recognised by SNCB on 1 September 2021. Your other questions relate to the management contract currently under negotiation. It is therefore premature to communicate about this now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u91	Minister, I had hoped to hear from you immediately a yes: 'Yes, we are meeting young people in school with an adjusted rate'. You remain reluctant and refer to the ongoing discussions surrounding the management contract. We will see what they yield, but at least I hope that there will be a suitable formula for students in a system of alternance learning. Just as SNCB needs to revise its tariff formulas due to increased homework, we need to broaden the scope here too. Hopefully we can also convince the school-based youth to continue to opt for the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u92	Mr President, Minister, since December 2018, SNCB has developed a new rail link offer between Charleroi and Maubeuge with the final destination Paris. This offer is a very inadequate response to the suspension of Thalys Wallon since 1 April 2015. This line lacks a genuine SNCB promotion policy worthy of this name. This lack of development is all the more regrettable given that an evaluation of the line was planned after two years of operation, i.e. at the end of 2020. The analysis was launched last December within SNCB. My colleague, Julien Matagne, asked Minister Henry several times about this. Your Walloon counterpart said that the line was mobilising large numbers and was a significant operating cost for little success. He added that he would nevertheless defend the matter with you, which seems logical to me from a Minister Ecolo. We now have two Ecolo ministers, which is extraordinary. This must succeed us! Minister, did SNCB provide you with the results of its study on the potential of the line? Failing that, did you ask to be able to dispose of it? Have you been able to take stock of the evaluation process conducted by SNCB in December 2020? When this line was put in place, SNCB wanted these trains to become direct trains from and to Paris in 2020-2021. Is this will maintained? Did you insist with SNCB that this line be highlighted and promoted? Did Minister Henry talk to you about this? If so, what were the decisions made following this interview?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u93	Mr President, Mr Arens, I speak with my excellent colleague, Philippe Henry, as you speak with your excellent colleague, Julien Matagne. Having said that, I appreciate you also asking questions about other electoral districts than yours. You know our ambition in terms of rail and rail connections. This is an ambition that goes beyond our country's borders, with attention to cross-border links such as the Brussels-Luxembourg axis that we have just mentioned. A new international tariff structure was introduced on 1 February 2021 to make cross-border supply more legible, coherent and attractive, resulting in lower prices for the majority of customers. A new attractive rate has also been introduced for seniors. This is a decision that was taken before I took office, but I obviously welcome it. I have been asked many times about the line 130 Namur-Charleroi-Sud-Maubuge, in particular about the line 130A between Charleroi-Sud and Maubeuge, including by my regional colleague. It's a real concern. As expected, SNCB took stock of this line after two years of operation. The analysis covered attendance rates, operational aspects and financial results. In terms of exploitation, SNCB informs me that this line Namur-Charleroi-Sud-Maubeuge has faced many difficulties. The year 2019 was marked by several removals linked to factors external to SNCB, notably by several infrastructure projects and strikes in France from 5 December 2019 to 12 January 2020. Since March 2020, relations have been strongly marked by the health crisis. SNCB was forced to interrupt the line between 18 March and 3 July 2020, in any case until Maubeuge. In these circumstances, SNCB informs me that the supply is financially in deficit, which is quite logical given the atypical and difficult conditions Despite the difficulties encountered, the line was highlighted as soon as it was launched in December 2018. In August 2019, a dedicated digital campaign targeting the Charleroi region was launched. Since the launch of the offer, SNCB has improved its visibility in the online route search tool. However, in the context of the covid crisis, SNCB was forced to cancel the promotion campaign planned for 2020, which was consistent since the final destination was not achievable. In parallel to the evaluation, SNCB conducted a potential study to explore several alternatives to the current offer. The evaluation after two years of operation and the potential study must now be discussed with the French partners before being presented to the management bodies of SNCB. On the other hand, I realize how important this line is for the inhabitants of the Haute-Sambre region in order to offer a credible alternative to the individual car and given the difficulties of traffic in the region. The problems with this line are the result, on the one hand, of a lack of resources in the past for this line and, on the other hand, of a lack of vision in the renewal work carried out before my entry into office. The consequences of these past choices for rail infrastructure and their impact on rail users in this region are dismaying to me, especially as you know my willingness to offer a high-performance network to our fellow citizens. Therefore, with particular attention to the status of this line 130A and the investments necessary for its restoration, I asked Infrabel to prepare an update of the file relating to the progress of the work, the continuity of the operation and the budgetary requirements necessary for its restoration of optimal functioning. The aim is to identify where to make investments that would be directly productive to improve the commercial speed or reliability of the line. Although I cannot, at this stage, commit myself to a specific deadline, depending on the overall resources available for rail – which I hope will be sufficient to meet rail needs – you can count on my determination on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u94	Minister, thank you for your answer. I insist very much on evaluation. Of course, there has been an evaluation, but you have made it clear that the various difficulties encountered do not allow for a positive assessment. That is quite normal. I also place great emphasis on the potential study as well as on the overall resources that must be made available to SNCB. Minister, aside from a joke, I was already saying that to your predecessors who were managing SNCB. You have an extraordinary chance to manage this matter, which, in the face of climate change, is one of the emergencies to improve everything we do in terms of the environment. You are lucky, and you must have important capabilities to defend important budgets for the coming years in your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u95	Mr. Minister, your predecessor, Mr. Bellot, stated in committee in November 2019 that there was a study by SNCB and Infrabel on the possible introduction of Automatic Train Operation or ATO, better known as self-driving trains, on our rail network. The conclusions were expected shortly afterwards. In the meantime, that was a little over two years ago. Our country is still in the preparatory phase, but in all our neighbouring countries it has already started to do so by the end of 2021. In Germany the first fully automatic train from Bremen was put in at the beginning of this month. In France today semi-automatic trains run around. In the Netherlands, the latest pilot projects are being completed. It is interesting that Luxembourg will soon be introducing the ATO2 vehicles. They would also use our national rail network. These are semi-automatic devices. This means that the starting and stopping procedures are automated, but there is still a train driver present. The doors are still manual. It is also possible to intervene manually in the case of necessary interventions. It is also interesting that the technology for Luxembourg aircraft comes from a research institute in Charleroi. Minister, can you confirm that Luxembourg ATO2 trains will soon be on our network? Have you discussed this with your Luxembourg colleague? Is our rail network sufficiently equipped to allow those trains to operate fully operationally? What progress has been made with the preparatory research at SNCB and Infrabel? What is your vision of the future of automatic train control on our rail network?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u96	Minister, at the committee meeting of 23 October 2020, I already asked you a few questions about the self-driving train. At the time it sounded that SNCB did not have immediate plans to carry out tests with self-driving trains. On November 12, De Tijd announced that Infrabel would like to carry out tests on self-driving trains with the rail works in the North-South connection and the implementation of ATO. Although the project was fired before, it is now very much looking forward to the SNCB's decision on the matter. Minister, what are the new elements concerning the self-driving train? What are the concrete plans of Infrabel? What timing does Infrabel have in connection with the self-driving train? What contacts have been established between Infrabel, SNCB and possibly other operators on the self-driving train? What's the result of these conversations? If SNCB maintains its position and does not want to carry out tests on a self-driving train, what other options does Infrabel consider in order to be able to carry out a pilot project? Is a pilot project also envisaged for cargo trains? What are the options? Has there been any interest from the cargo sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u97	Mr Roggeman, Mrs Verhaert, a technological solution such as ATO must be looked at, among other things, in the light of the saturated North-South link. This connection now means that our rail system can become less robust and that incidents lead to delays and subsequent delays. The desired capacity on our rail network depends, among other things, on the consolidated demand for routes of international and national operators, on the transport model we choose, on the evolution of the modal shift, on the desired robustness of the infrastructure and on the desired punctuality. What capacity is needed on the North-South link will also be the subject of the management contract on which we are negotiating. In order to allow more trains to be tracked on the North-South link, there are several solutions, which are examined jointly by Infrabel and SNCB, without any compromise for safety. ATO on all trains is one of the thought tracks being investigated. It is essentially a so-called on-board system that allows the rail system to assign a potentially limited number of lanes extra to train operators over a certain period of time. Infrabel and SNCB evaluate the different ideas on their costs and benefits, also following the test results of our neighbouring countries. For a decision to be taken, it should also be considered whether the rather limited benefits outweigh the high cost and whether there are other options to increase the capacity that may be cheaper. Technological feasability tests were previously carried out on a number of AR41 trains. The rolling stock shall be equipped with an ATO device for driving the train under the supervision of the driver and the ETCS. In a first phase, the ATO system on board a train can operate autonomously by allowing the train to run at an optimum speed calculated by the system between two nodes. In a second phase, Infrabel should have a traffic management system linked to ATO. The system would then give the necessary instructions to the ATO on board to regulate the journey of the train by optimising the full operation of the rail system. These include the optimum speed to respect the timetable and the optimal capacity of the infrastructure by running under green signals, taking into account traffic incidents in real time. As you suggested, ATO can indeed generate energy savings. This is important, but it is rather a consequence. At most, ATO can be an additional means in addition to the other actions aimed at directly saving energy, which are already ongoing with SNCB, such as the installation of energy meters on trains, the promotion of energy-efficient trains, the increase in energy recovery in braking and the deployment of new M7 vehicles, which are much more economical than older equipment. According to my information, the Luxembourg railways have actually bought about 30 ATO-equipped Concordia trains from Alstom. The ATO shall be activated on a trial basis on a line of the CFL network and on a prototype train. CFL plans to activate ATO on its entire network in 5 years. SNCB is not a participating party in CFL's ATO. Our rail network is not yet sufficiently equipped to receive trains with ATO technology. First, our network must be equipped with a full-supervision variant of ETCS level 1 or preferably even level 2. In addition, specific adjustments are needed to link the traffic control to the control of the train. As far as your last question is concerned, I can answer that, unfortunately, our infrastructure is not yet sufficiently equipped with ERTMS to switch to ATO. The Luxembourg network is fully equipped. I congratulate our Luxembourg colleagues on this. Moreover, we do not have large axes where this would be profitable at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u98	I am glad to hear that steps are finally being taken forward. I have also heard that it is being investigated to use ATO, not only on the Brussels North-South link, but on all trains. I am pleased that that dossier is finally progressing. I understand that much remains to be done about the infrastructure, but we live on hope. If we see that the neighbouring countries are farther than we are and that they are also using Belgian technologies, then it is a pity that we are lagging behind. I can't wait to see how ATO can be introduced in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u99	It is good to hear that a number of steps are being taken. Nevertheless, it remains important to make our railway futureproof and not to miss that train. ATO can be an important link to the ambition to have a train run everywhere every half an hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u100	Mr President, Minister, on 17 August 2021 you visited the Walloon company Reprocover, which specialises in the recycling of plastic, a wonderful technology. The parent company Simonis has been working with, among others, SNCB and Infrabel for a long time. However, I fell off my chair when I read the coverage of your visit. You stated there, according to La Meuse, that you would like to write Infrabel's management contracts in such a way that Reprocover would be more likely to be involved in public procurement, which would, of course, be a serious failure in competition law. First of all, is that a quote? Are you quoted correctly on this issue or have you made a mistake? Secondly, if the quote is correct, what exactly is your intention? How will you rewrite the management contract in view of the interests of one specific Walloon company? Is it a sensible move for you as a custody minister to favour one specific company, and that is through drawing up a management contract? Do you think you can do that and give such preferential treatment? Is that compatible with public procurement laws? Finally, do you not fear that, by making such statements, you risk compromising the objectivity of the final award and risk giving rise to possible disputes in the award of possible future contracts to Reprocover?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u101	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, thank you for your interest in my visit to public and private actors and for my statements in the press. On the other hand, of course, I do not accept your innuendo. Nothing lies further from my way of doing politics than what you are suggesting here. The discussion in question concerns the criteria to be taken into account in public procurement. Are the current criteria sufficient to include products from the circular economy? Are there sufficient handles to opt for sufficient environmentally friendly and innovative products? These are the questions that are currently being studied, which are valid in many cases and to which I do not yet have any definitive answers. It is clear that they deserve answers, as I have already stated in my policy statement. In addition to being ethically impeccable, SNCB and Infrabel must be exemplary in terms of the environment as public enterprises. I'm working on it in the context of their future contracts with the federal state.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u102	Mr Minister, I had hoped that you would explain that you were wrongly quoted by the newspaper and that that quote was wrong. I note that this is not the case. You seem to me to be in the grey zone of the legally permissible by declaring that you want to rewrite agreements with a public undertaking in favour of one company. The law on public procurement is just there to prevent political interference. You're gonna stick your neck out pretty far, aren't you? We shall see what happens and whether this will indeed lead to more contracts with Reprocover and less legal dispute in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u103	Minister, according to the CEO of Infrabel, Mr Gilson, his company is being blocked in the development of various industrial projects. This is evident from a quote he had recently recorded in La Libre Belgique, which said: "Aujourd'hui, nous sommes bloqués dans certains projets industrials." He added that too many tasks still had to be done manually in the operation of the rail system. For example, he gives the manual change of track changes and the manual lubrication of track straps. My questions are as follows. Are you in favour or opposed to automation of contracts within the rail sector? How do you explain that Mr Gilson indicates that he feels blocked in terms of the automation of these tasks? Do you see any reason for that as a custody minister? Are Infrabel and yourself in line with technological innovation and automation in the railway sector? Does Infrabel have estimates of the potential cost savings it could achieve through automation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u104	Mr Roggeman, the train traveller expects punctual, comfortable and more trains. Automation and innovation in infrastructure should therefore contribute to improving the supply of trains, both quantitatively and qualitatively. Automation of tasks is today's reality and Infrabel is no exception. Significant productivity gains have been achieved in recent years thanks to various programmes in this area. One of the most impressive achievements is undoubtedly the concentration of signal posts. Infrabel wants to continue along this path in order to promote a real modal shift. These innovations are important instruments for the development of the Belgian rail network. Optimal traffic management or the use of advanced technologies, such as flow management and capacity management, will increase the capacity of our network in perfect safety. I can give you some examples of existing operational and strategic transformation programmes that can further increase Infrabel's efficiency. New TW (Travaux/Working) aims to introduce new methods so that the execution of works would have a minimal impact on train traffic. Master Data Infrastructure aims to unify data sources by digitisation to optimise their life cycle costs. Supply chain management aims to roll out an organization based on service point maintenance, to limit intervention times on the network and to better control supplies. These examples show that Infrabel is making progress on several projects in the context of the automation of tasks. You also know that Infrabel has received an envelope for automation under the European RRF funds. This seems to me to be an important goal for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u105	Minister, I am a little surprised at your answer, because it seemed to me to be a very defensive explanation of the need for automation, although that is of course subjective. For the sake of clarity, I am absolutely in favour of this, so my question was not drafted in that sense. Indeed, in recent years considerable efficiency gains have been achieved at Infrabel, partly thanks to automation and the railway employees themselves. In the previous legislature, the Swedish coalition has also made an intensive effort to do so. I understand from your explanatory statement that you want to proceed in the same way, but I did not get an answer to my question about the fact that Mr Gilson himself sees a problem in implementing the modernisation projects. Apparently there is a kink in the cable, but you have not explained it. We have guessed what the reason is. I am sorry that you cannot clarify this today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u106	Mr President, Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u107	Mr Minister, telework has become part of the habits of our fellow citizens, who are increasingly asking for partial telework. To adapt to this demand, the SNCB launched last June a pilot project on flexible subscriptions for home-to-work journeys. Unlike the half-time subscription, this project gives travellers greater freedom to determine their travel. This project targets between 6,000 and 7,000 workers. They are expected to be evaluated by the end of 2021 for deployment early next year. Today, we are at the midpoint of this pilot project. Minister, has this project reached the target number of travellers at this stage? Are trends already emerging? In view of the fact that telework in Brussels, if it is no longer compulsory, is still strongly encouraged, how will this data be integrated into the evaluation of the pilot project? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u108	Mr President, Mr Zanchetta, Mr Toventors, SNCB has indeed started a pilot phase with seven companies between June and September. The employees of these companies can test the different formulas of the Flex Subscription. One option is to use six or eight travel days over a period of one month. Another option is to use 80 or one hundred and twenty travel days over a period of 12 months. Those offers are specifically intended for workers who travel to work two to three days a week. For those travelling to work more than three days a week, the full-time subscription remains the most advantageous offer. This pilot phase is still under way and, as initially communicated, an evaluation of the pilot phase is planned for the end of the year. So I can't give you the answers you're hoping for, Mrs. Zanchetta, and I'm sorry. The marketing phase of these new formulas is planned in the first half of 2022. A specific date has not yet been set. Similarly, the deployment plan has yet to be confirmed. Pending this commercialization, the half-time subscription, which already exists, remains a good alternative for workers who do not come to the office every day and who are likely to be more numerous after the co-vid than before the co-vid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u109	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u110	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will wait until the end of the year for the evaluation of this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u111	Minister, we have often debated this project. For some 25 years, there has been episodic talk about the possible reopening of railway line 154 between Dinant and Givet. Under the previous legislature, your predecessor, Mr.Belot, announced in 2018 the completion of a feasibility and technical study on this line. The study was also intended to highlight the technical possibilities of creating an independent pedestrian or cycling path adjacent to the railway. This funding was envisaged with a contribution from the French authorities. The launch by the European Union of a call for projects to finance transnational strategic rail links projects has reinvigorated the debate on this issue. To participate, a policy decision should be taken by the end of this year. Has the technical and economic feasibility study been initiated to date by Mr. Bellot or yourself? If so, what is the status? What is the cost of the study and how is it funded? What part is it taken by the French authorities in a formal way? I would also like to know your opinion on the combination of a railway activity on this line with a RAVeL cycling path. If so, under what technical and security conditions and with what additional investments could this be made? What is the position of SNCB and Infrabel regarding the possible reopening of line 154 on this section? As regards the call for European projects, do you intend to give an agreement in principle for this Franco-Belgian cooperation project aimed at reopening the Dinant-Givet line by 2050?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u112	Mr. Delizée, 2050! I remember most of 2007 when, as a young Member of Parliament, I asked the minister at the time about the possibility of reopening the Dinant-Givet line. This is a case that I know well for defending him as a young Member of Parliament. Here I will answer as a young minister of one year. The French authorities are also developing an interest in reopening the line, as I was able to see during my first meeting with the French Minister responsible for Transport, Jean-Baptiste Djebari, who gave us the honour of a visit to Brussels. This is one of the topics he wanted to discuss with us. At this meeting, we agreed to sign shortly a convention in which SNCF Réseau and Infrabel will be asked to carry out a new feasibility and potential study because I did not find this in my boxes by taking on my duties as Minister of Mobility a year ago. The discussions then continued between Infrabel and SNCB, the French representatives and my firm, which enabled us to clearly identify the central points which should be the subject of a new study on the feasibility and potential of this reopening, the scope of the study, its financing, its planning or, indeed, the integration of gentle modes of travel with the possible future reopening of the line. I am aware, as a quasi-local, that the development stage of a section of the RAVeL along this route is an important project both for the soft mobility in the region, as for tourism in this very beautiful Haute-Meuse. This represents a safety issue for cyclists and other daily tourists. In concrete terms, a budget of EUR 420,000 was mentioned with a commitment from the French Government of EUR 300 000 and EUR 120 000 for Belgium. It was agreed to study the passenger potential in a broader way, namely, the rail potential between Charleville-Mézières where TGVs in the direction of all or almost all of France are starting, and Brussels, where the Dinant-Givet section is missing. This study will start as soon as the Convention is signed, which I hope will be as quickly as possible. For the moment, the ball is in the French camp. We await their proposal and will then, on the basis of this study, see the priority projects in terms of cross-border liaison between our countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u113	Minister, as a young president, I will give my reply to the young minister you are. Thank you for your answers. I'm a little surprised at the information that you didn't find a file in the boxes. I don't know if you're telling us there was an announcement effect. It had been stated that a study was being funded and would be launched. We were in 2018-2019. It is two years later and apparently, as you say, no study has been carried out. It is in prospect of an agreement signed with a significant part of the French authorities, which is not surprising to me because they are very demanding on this issue, and we know that. As regards the call for European projects, does this mean that Belgium could enter into an agreement in principle before the end of the year in this Connecting Europe Facility project? I'm not sure I understood your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u114	Mr. Delizée, that's not what I said. A feasibility and potential study must first be carried out. In the context of Connecting Europe Facility, as I said earlier in response to various questions on the Brussels-Luxembourg axis, there are other priorities and issues that are more mature than this one. We are, of course, in short-term commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u115	I wanted to be sure of the scope of the answer. I understand that there are other priority projects. This means that the study will not be carried out by the end of the year, and that the registration of Dinant-Givet is unlikely to take place in that European call.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u116	You yourself mentioned a deadline of 2050 at the end of your speech. I don't know if it'll be that far. But it won't be by 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u117	The call for projects must be answered before the end of the year, in the short term. The implementation of the projects is at the end of 2050. It's the timing. That is indeed a long time-frame. After that, will there be further calls for projects in future years? I don't know. It would not be for the call for projects that will happen shortly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u118	"Mr Gilkinet, the organizations you have the supervision or supervision of, such as the SNCB and Infrabel, have zones or old areas in our country, either of workshops or of stations. Some of these are polluted sites that have been removed from all economic activities since companies that would be willing to settle there must carry out a costly clean-up while, on the basis of the "polluter pays" principle, one could expect the owner to take over the clean-up of the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u119	Thank you for your answer."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u120	SNCB and Infrabel obviously comply with existing regional legislation on soil sanitation. These laws do not fall within my competence, so I invite you to contact, through a regional colleague, the relevant regional ministers. Infrabel, however, informs me that it is following a three-pronged strategy for site clean-up. First, it carries out the studies and depollutions imposed by the legislation for the historical pollutions present on Infrabel's grounds. Secondly, it follows regional legislation – Walloon, Flemish and also Brussels – which introduces strict management of polluted land through traceability of land movements. Thirdly, it manages new pollution caused by incidents, where appropriate on behalf of third parties where they are responsible for such pollution. With regard to the clean-up of a site in the event of a sale, the clean-up depends of course on the project which will be further developed by the purchaser. Indeed, the type of pollution control to be carried out for the creation of a parking lot is not the same as for the realization of a dwelling, of course. The clean-up is therefore logically left to the purchaser and not to the taxpayer. In this way, the cost of the clean-up is not taken into account in the amount of the sale. The clean-up as such will be carried out by the purchaser on the basis of his project and not on a total clean-up of the site if this does not prove necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u121	I obviously do not share your point of view. I'm taking the case of CML, based in Libramont. She has been visited by Infrabel's director and various ministers on numerous occasions. It is an intelligent and efficient development model, which has attracted interest not only from Infrabel, but also from international companies. This company, which is close to Libramont, wants to be able to settle in Bertrix. To do this, it must clean up the site of the old station. I had already visited other places with CML, particularly in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. It is a shame to waste time looking for a solution while precisely, CML is working on the production of high-tech machines, with a battery of engineers at its service. Even recently, the visit found that, on the one hand, Infrabel trusted this company since it placed orders on it, and on the other hand, that there is a problem to be solved in terms of its extension. The problem of the de-pollution burden on the company should therefore be solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u122	Mr President, Mr Minister, your predecessor has never answered in detail the questions I asked him about his project: his model, the budget and the investments to be made in order to achieve it. In fact, you said that you found this file "in waste" when you took up your duties in October 2020. I remember it very well. Yet the answers you have given me since then are no more precise. "When the renovation of axis 3 is complete, we'll think about it." "Park and Ride don't attract anyone and it's very expensive." In his answers to my colleague Anne-Catherine Goffinet, your Walloon counterpart does not see the link between Park and Ride and Axis 3. He also stated that SNCB no longer wished to intervene in the parking lot. I asked you to confirm that, but you didn't answer. It would be sad if it were. Minister, these files rot in the language of wood, they are the cause of the citizens' lack of interest in public management. Then, please, stand clearly! Finally, did SNCB abandon the project? If so, is it with your approval? Have you confirmed this to CFLs that you probably know very well? Otherwise, unless you also wish to leave the project empty to your successor, do you have any details of the plan for this budgeted project? With regard to axis 3, is work still scheduled to be completed in 2027-2028? Will Infrabel have sufficient means to achieve this? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u123	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf, Mr Arens, thank you for asking me again about this project of parking at Viville station. I have already had the opportunity to speak on this subject on several occasions, the last time in the committee on 6 July this year. As you know, one of my many priorities is to obtain additional resources to finalise the work on the modernisation of axis 3 Brussels-Luxembourg. I have already answered this question in detail. This is a priority that I share, as you know, with my excellent Luxembourg colleague, François Bausch. We were able to recall it together at the Gäichel Summit on 31 August. Thus, in addition to the additional resources obtained under the European Recovery Plan, part of the EUR 250 million foreseen for rail in the 2022-2024 budget will be devoted to the modernisation of this axis 3. For the rest, I refer you to the answer I gave you earlier in the session. For the future – as I have already said, but I repeat – my priority is to improve the frequency of trains in the province of Luxembourg and the Grand Duchy. You know that many decisions have been taken, even before me, such as the hourly link between Liège and Gouvy and Luxembourg. The aim is to allow more people to travel by train to the city of Luxembourg, which is a centre of professional attraction for the inhabitants of the beautiful province of Luxembourg. In response to your questions about the Viville car park project, I did say that it was about taking the problem in the right direction and giving priority to the rail service and then considering the best solutions in terms of parking and accessibility to the different modes, no more or less! As I told you in my previous answer, there is currently one train per hour in Viville, with a load break in Arlon. If this problem has not first been solved and choices made, the risk is to invest in a way that is not as optimal as possible. That is why I would like SNCB and the Luxembourg railways to study together the best way to improve rail services. Discussions were initiated between the two companies with a view to ordering a study, in particular as regards the compatibility of the Grand-Ducal and Belgian equipment and the possibility of placing additional trains. Once we have a complete and precise view of the development of the rail offer, we will make the most suitable choices in terms of parking and accessibility to the various modes. It is in this sense that I wish to consider the problem and this issue of parking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u124	Minister, I think I'm dreaming when I hear you. But I'm not gonna argue. On the other hand, minister, governing is planning. When we see how long it takes to implement projects, we can say that we will start to set up the parking lot when the link between Brussels and Luxembourg is finally operational. In doing so, if we don't get to work right now, we'll never be ready in 2028. Luxembourgers make this a priority. Both François Bausch and the government representative at the CFL have reminded him on numerous occasions. The question of the Sterpenich solution has been evacuated because we wanted to give priority to Park & Ride. If we do not focus on the task and if we do not implement the means to develop this area which has emerged from the economic field and from the field of mobility, we will never succeed. It is therefore, in our view, now that we must mobilize. My question goes back to the one I asked earlier about polluted sites. If clean-up is not started at sites, they are out of the economic field. However, it is enclaves on provinces that need this development. As I said, governing is planning. We must therefore anticipate and do what is to be done. In doing so, I do not agree at all with your answer. I pass the details because it's a file I know very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u125	Minister, thank you for your answer. But, unfortunately, I'm still hungry. "Dat ass net meiglech", it is said in Luxembourg. That's not possible! We need this parking lot, Minister. I fully agree with my colleague, Benoît Piedboeuf, that this is a matter that must evolve in parallel with that of axis 3 in order to be ready in 2025-2026-2027 to accommodate even more travellers. When I see the oversaturation of the motorway from Arlon to Luxembourg, I do not understand how a minister with the Ecolo label does not act any more. You know how much I respect that label. Indeed, if I have never joined your party, it is because I am more environmentalist than you! I therefore insist, minister, that you answer this question clearly and that you fight for credits. I know that Mr Roggeman will be on our side since he appreciates the province of Luxembourg. I can see that at every committee meeting. Minister, fight and we will succeed together!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u126	Mr Arens, I'm fighting for money to drive the trains first. After that, we'll decide where we'll put the parking lot. In addition, it takes less time to make a parking lot than to finalize axis 3. I'm tearing my hair off in front of this file, which should have been finished long before I took office. I'm trying to put things in the right order and you can count on my energy and determination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u127	It will still be before 2050! I hear dates that make me more than dream! I wish you a good job so that we can do this together very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u128	Mr Roggeman, setting up a system for a unitary ticket is a very commendable endeavour which can greatly contribute to the efforts to encourage international rail transport. SNCB is therefore currently working with more than 30 other European railway companies to develop an internationally recognised transport ticket. This is called URT. SNCB is an active part of the technical working groups which further develop this draft on a monthly basis. This ticket contains several modes and contracts on one and the same ticket. SNCB is therefore working today with these other European railway companies to make international tariff dates available to the so-called OSDM platform. OSDM stands for Open Sales and Distribution Model. This platform was created by voluntary cooperation between the railway sector and the so-called ticket vendors. The latter are external parties that are already specialising in the sale of international train journeys today. This initiative aims to improve the response of all stakeholders to the challenges of interoperability, as well as to increase the accessibility of international train journeys to the general public. It is an open computer standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u129	Minister, I am glad to hear that there is progress in this. SNCB has always been reluctant in the past to provide and share commercial data. I understand that it is open to this in this case. That is right, because it is a technological innovation at the service of the traveller and if we want to get more people on the train internationally, we must facilitate this, including in marketing and ticketing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u130	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Hanus' 55021020C and Mrs Rohonyi's 55021427C were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u131	Trade unions and rail management failed to reach a social agreement on wage and working conditions by 2021-2022. From my contacts with a number of trade unionists, I point out that the key points of the discussion include statutory recruitment, wage increases and welfare measures at work. Fortunately, no action has yet been announced, but the pressure on staff and their representation is increasing as long as no satisfactory agreement is reached. It is in everyone's interest that action should not have an impact on the smooth running of trains and passengers, and that railway staff should continue to be motivated in the coming years. Can you explain more about the course and content of the failed negotiations between rail management and trade unions? Do you want and can you play an intermediary role in increasing the chances of a social agreement? If so, what initiatives are you prepared to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u132	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u133	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u134	You raise an important issue with your questions, namely the social negotiations on the Belgian railways. I fully understand the railway staff's desire to obtain the best working conditions and the best salary conditions. That's legitimate for every employee. However, it is not my role to intervene in the social negotiations that take place in that autonomous public sector between management and employee representatives. This does not prevent me from guarding the respect and quality of the social dialogue, which I naturally encourage. There is no denying that the corona crisis has had a significant budgetary impact on our economy and, in particular, on SNCB. However, this difficult situation must not be passed on to railway staff, which has continued to work admirablely during the Corona crisis. I've thanked them repeatedly. I would like to take this opportunity to do it again. In order to compensate for the loss of revenue of SNCB, the Federal Government decided at the end of June to support SNCB with a new flat-rate compensation of EUR 150 million, in addition to the exceptional flat-rate grant of EUR 148 million granted by the government to SNCB at the beginning of February. Moreover, the government agreement stipulates that SNCB will have the monopoly on passenger transport for a period of 10 years. This monopoly applies to the signing of the new public service contract. Despite the financial situation, the railway companies have managed to introduce a system for the reimbursement of the mileage of railway staff by bicycle between the place of residence and the workplace. It is a positive first step, but clearly not enough. One of the essential elements of the rail administration agreement is the possibility of direct entrusting SNCB with a public service mission for a period of 10 years. I believe that this decision can reassure the employees' representatives about the future that the government wants to give to their company. The improvement of the financial situation of SNCB and the observance of public service are two essential conditions for the smooth functioning of the social dialogue. I hope that the discussions on that basis will lead to a new social agreement. I will continue to monitor and support the discussions taking place in the social dialogue bodies for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u135	Minister, I agree with you that the decisions we are taking with the government to make SNCB the unique operator of public service over the next ten years, as well as the financial compensation that we are putting on the table for the loss of income due to the corona crisis, will have to create a more favourable framework for making a social agreement. It is, of course, also a fact that SNCB's staff have already achieved a 20% productivity increase in recent years. We are doing much more with a lot less workers, and I understand very well that staff expect decent working and wage conditions to be in place. For example, we have not had the discussion on compensation days here. There is a lot on the shelf in that regard. You do have your role to play and it is an autonomous public body, but I fear that it will end up on your plate politically if the negotiations fail. But let us not be pessimistic, Minister. Together with you, I hope that a social agreement can be reached that everyone can live with.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u136	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I follow the issue closely and look forward to the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u137	I, too, follow the file very closely. There will be no mediation, but the social dialogue has been blocked for years and there is no de-escalation on the horizon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u138	Mr President, Minister, the PVDA considers freight transport to be very important. That needs to be extended. You think so, too. You believe that there should be a doubling by 2030. After all, we have a lot of questions about how all this happens. Indeed, we note that this year there is a decline in freight transport rather than an increase of 19% in July 2021, compared with recent years. International transport has also fallen by even 38%. We're not in the right direction. So we do not really see much difference from the previous governments in that regard. Why do you continue to subsidise this sector without going against it? Why does the rail freight sector need additional aid again, while the economy is still alive? Is this about structural transfers from public money to private money? One of the measures is the elimination of cancellation costs and road booking costs for carriers. What are the consequences for Infrabel of this decision? Do you want to double rail freight transport by 2030? Is this objectively realistic given the reduced activity today?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u139	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, the rail freight sector has been hit hard by the decline in economic activity caused by the covid crisis. Recent announcements of economic recovery must not blind us to the fact that the financial consequences for the sector will continue for some time to come. The rail freight sector is structurally vulnerable. It faces strong competition in the field of freight transport and high production costs. If we want to meet our climate objectives and ensure that rail accounts for its share of freight transport, we need viable companies that provide transport capacity. The disappearance of some of these companies could affect the industrial sectors in our country, whose competitiveness depends on the use of rail. The impact on employment must not be forgotten. It is in our interest that we should be able to relieve the cash flow of these companies until the framework conditions improve and they can develop their activities in a sustainable way. As regards the impact of the measures on the costs of removing and ordering train paths at Infrabel, the State will bear the full costs. For Infrabel, that's a neutral operation. The doubling of the volume to be transported by rail by 2030 is an ambitious objective. As I have said on several occasions, we are working on a draft plan of concrete actions to be submitted to the government. The sector itself presented its proposals on 14 September. In order to achieve this goal, we will need to work together in a cross-cutting cooperation of freight mobility. There are already contacts with my regional colleagues to coordinate our action in favour of modal shift to rail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u140	Minister, subsidies are always being granted to freight transport, but the question arises when it will be enough. Suppose, in January 2022, the sector reverts to loss, how will you deal with it? There are problems with the number of truck drivers. In England, we have seen what a shortage of truck drivers can lead to. There is also a shortage of sea containers, which also puts shipping in difficulty. In our view, freight transport needs to be strengthened, but the question is whether subsidies are the right way to do so. We believe that these subsidies should be subject to conditions. Now private companies are being subsidised, without anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u141	Minister, in a letter on the Kortrijk depot, the Independent Union of Railway Workers is suing that the legal limits of working time are being exceeded. After submitting this question, I received many signals that this is not just the case in Kortrijk, but that the problem is much wider. There's overtime coming up all the time. A group of Kortrijk train drivers and militants have charged this and have now been matched by FOD WASO, the supervisory government, across the board. Despite the fingering of the FOD one continues on the same momentum. A proposal has been made with new working hours, which shows the same thing again, in particular that too many hours a day have to be worked. The result will undoubtedly be that these overtime will accumulate, making it very difficult to balance work and private life. In addition, there is a demand for a lot of work to be done at certain times. In the summer period, for example, there is a problem on the coast and in the Bruges region. In other periods this is much less the case. The staff's distress call is justified. It is only logical that a new proposal should at least take into account a problem which already exists today and which is also recognised by the FOD WASO. That is clearly not the case today. Are you aware of this problem? I suppose the problem doesn't only occur in West Flanders. Are you willing to listen to the staff and find a solution with them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u142	Minister, my colleague has already outlined the problem. It is indeed a cri de coeur of the drivers, who have a function in which safety is very important. Since I used to be a trade unionist in the CPBW, I too know very well that this is very important. Rest periods and long periods of work must be properly regulated. The fact that the FOD WASO agrees with them says a lot. As a minister, I would still be concerned about security. People tell me that they fear the consequences of insufficient sleep or rest in the exercise of their jobs. That is not the only problem; there is another question on the agenda about the problem of overtime. There is a global problem of overtime at SNCB and Infrabel, where staff are even asked not to recover the overtime but to have them paid. Of course, that's not possible at all. Minister, how many train drivers have been accommodated at the Kortrijk depot today? How many were there in 2011? Will you confront the management board and the management board of SNCB with the complaints of the train drivers and the conclusion of the FOD WASO? This is still not taken into account. In what way will SNCB act on this? Can the overtime be recovered quickly? Are there gonna be extra recruitments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u143	Mrs Depraetere, Mrs Vindevoghel, the SNCB and HR Rail inform me that they are aware of this problem. It was dealt with on the board of directors of HR Rail. I would like to stress that it is an issue which affects the social management of the companies themselves, in which I do not wish to interfere. The social inspection of the FOD WASO sent a letter to HR Rail on 8 March this year. A periodic inspection visit was announced at the Kortrijk depot on 1 April this year. On 7 July there was a notice of formal notice for the social inspection, asking for measures to be taken to remedy the situation. On 27 September the summit of employee representatives was informed. Finally, HR Rail sent a letter to the social inspection on 15 October with a number of proposals, five days ago. SNCB and HR Rail are, of course, bound by labour law, including working time. This is important, not only for the well-being and work-life balance of the staff, but also, as you rightly said, for the safety of rail transport. In any case, from a distance but with great attention, I will continue to monitor the evolution of the conversations. I hope that a balanced solution to this situation can be found within the railway company.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u144	I would like a little clarification. You said a letter was sent five days ago. I assume that it is the intention that the recommendations contained in it should be put into practice in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u145	The aim is to provide an answer to the Employment, Labour and Social Affairs Office. There are ongoing discussions between HR Rail and the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u146	I hope it was more than just a letter and that we are trying to find a real solution. We don't have a lot of eyes on that right now. It might come up again later. In any case, people do not ask for their overtime to be paid, they ask for the time to which they are entitled. This is an important question, especially in view of the safety aspect that has already been explained. It is simply no longer sustainable to continue to work like this. The social inspection is very clear, and you said it, there are laws that must be observed. It is therefore clear that something must change. You say that you will have little to do with this because that is not really your job. However, it is your job to ensure that there are sufficient staff. There is clearly a structural problem, there are far too few people, and it is likely that more will be needed than a letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u147	You did not reply to the difference in the number of employees compared to the former. I've looked at the website and I don't see any vacancies for train drivers at the moment, while there's still a big shortage. It is not a compliment to a public authority to receive a letter from the FOD WASO for failing to respect labour law. You should be concerned about that, because it is not just about non-respect for legislation, there is also an important safety aspect. The people I have heard say that even the decisions taken in connection with the Buizingen disaster cannot be respected, because people cannot take their breaks and rest periods. The fact that, because of the staff shortage, even the recommendations made after the Buizingen disaster cannot be implemented and safety rules such as brake checks can sometimes not be complied with should be alerted. It should make you realize that something must be done. After all, people do not want to see a second disaster as in Buizingen. These people are concerned about the safety of travellers and their own safety, which I can understand. Finally, they are also concerned about their social and family life. That too is very important. Those people worked hard during the Corona epidemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u148	Minister, PS President Paul Magnette is in favour of making public transport completely free of charge. We think that is a very good idea and we support it. It is a proposal that we have already launched for a long time. However, Mr Magnette, who is also Mayor of Charleroi, found our proposal for free public transport in the city of Charleroi unrealistic. His ideas therefore depend on the place of application. We think that free public transport is a good idea and that this can lead to increased use of public transport. It already exists in Dunkirk, Estonia and Luxembourg. So there are many possibilities and it is a social measure. According to Mr Magnette, making SNCB free would cost EUR 700 million per year. Is that correct? Has the cost of free train traffic in Belgium ever been calculated? The idea of your coalition partner immediately fell on a cold stone with the Liberals in Vivaldi, but the position of the ecologists was not so clear to me. What are your views on the PS President's proposal for free train traffic in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u149	Minister, the free train for all is a very beautiful subject and the project of one of your majority partners, which describes it as a necessary measure to meet the challenge of democratizing the survival of humanity. While we can agree on the need to act quickly in the face of the climate emergency, which inevitably involves a change in our travel habits, free travel is not the main criterion for increasing the number of train passengers. The main criterion consists of a qualitative offer, with elements such as frequency and amplitudes. Therefore, in advance of a reflection on the transition to free movement – which exists in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, a small country well managed by people who have their feet on the ground – investments at the financial, material and human levels are necessary in order to improve the reliability of train journeys, whether for professional, school or leisure trips. Minister, first of all – and I would like a pragmatic answer – are you in favour of free train for all? Why? How would you see the implementation of this project? Are there data available to quantify this project? Which ones? What investments would be needed to support the feasibility of such a measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u150	My priority as Minister of Mobility is a better train offer for the Belgians, both qualitatively and quantitatively. The train must thus form the backbone of our sustainable public transport. This modal shift is what the population expects of us. This applies not only to passenger transport but also to freight transport. That is why I want to invest first and foremost in the quality of the network, after years of disinvestment. We have already started this year on the basis of an investment of EUR 365 million from European funds, and there is an additional EUR 250 million to strengthen the booster plan, as much as one quarter of the government's new investments after the budgetary conclave. These investments should also improve the quality of services and the price-quality ratio of rail transport. The train can be made more attractive by adapting the rates for certain target groups. The current rate offers very favourable rates for students and workers for the weekend. We can do more for younger people, for older people, for people who want to travel distances or travel outside rush hours. This aspect is an integral part of the discussions on the new public service contract between the Belgian State and SNCB, which we are currently negotiating. In addition, we can also attract new passengers through innovative pricing. To this end, together with SNCB, we have developed flexible forms of subscription such as the FlexAbo, which is in the test phase. All this will help make the train ever more attractive. This is really what is mobilising us: a quality of service and targeted pricing policies to the public who need it, but also to the public that we could attract to the train tomorrow. This is the right equation and we are working in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u151	This is not a contradiction between free public transport and substantial investment in public transport. We believe that there is under-financing. Vivaldi's proposal is far too limited if we want to make the switch. I read a very interesting article on Monday. Several scientists mention the proposal for free public transport in Luxembourg as a very social measure. In addition, I note that Vivaldi will spend a lot of money on salary wagons: EUR 2 to 3 billion. The Greens are still part of this government. Vivaldi will continue to subsidise payrolls. With half of that budget you could carry out all the free public transport. It would encourage many more people to use public transport and it would be a social measure to get people to use the train. We are very sorry that a green minister is not more ambitious in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u152	Minister, if I interpret your answer correctly, you are not for the free train for all. You are in favour of changing tariff policy so that certain categories of people may be more interested in taking the train rather than the car. I'm going to take the pole you stretched me off, minister. For a number of years, I have been defending the Go Pass for the elderly. These people regularly ask me about this. Thanks to Isabelle Durant, a previous Minister of Mobility, Ecolo like you, I had obtained the Go Pass student. I would now like to see the Go Pass for seniors, starting at 7 a.m., so that people from the South can reach the North and vice versa, taking advantage of this advantage. I'll question you until I win. Thank you for this commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic610x.u153	Minister, you reiterate your prospect of lower ticket prices for SNCB. I take note of that. This does not seem obvious to me in a context in which SNCB complains about its own resources, which you are not raising, because the additional budgets go to Infrabel. SNCB has often pointed out in the past that its ticket prices are much lower than those in other countries. I wonder if you will be able to realise that intention.
