ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u2	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Steven Matheï and Mr Dieter Vanbesien, rapporteurs, referred to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u3	Mr Minister, I would like to start with a positive note this time. The solution you come with does not involve additional taxes on Belgian rental income. So landlords of domestic real estate are spared and that is good news, at least for the time being. The large tax reform, which is often referred to, will also have to provide an answer to the general situation of the rental of real estate. Not all the voices we hear are equally positive. Anyway, that's the future. We will not talk about this at this time. I come to my comments on the draft law. The draft law introduces a new method of calculation to convert the value of real estate into a fictitious 1975 value in a complex and artificial way. After all, our real estate taxation is still based on that basis. According to the Council of State, the new method of calculation may result in the property located abroad being indirectly subject to a higher tax rate than real estate situated in Belgium. According to the Council of State, therefore, the question arises as to whether the practical application of the method of calculating cadastral income will not give rise to indirect discrimination between taxable persons depending on the systematic application of one or the other method. The Council also refers to the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate, which would be based on a case study. We have asked a question on this, but we were not given a convincing answer to that fundamental criticism either in the committee or in the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate itself. It therefore seems to be feared that the solution bears the seeds of a new judicial conviction by the way in which the tax base is calculated. Kicking the can further down the road Says the saying. However, such problems are difficult to prevent when trying to resolve foreign real estate over which the national authorities have no jurisdiction. Not only does such a solution once again lead to condemnations, but because of its complexity it requires a great deal of effort and expense from both the government and the citizen, who is once again being saddled with a new complex system. This is still separate from the undesirable side effects of the complex scheme, because for someone living abroad who is in the highest income range, the new method of calculation will make little difference, but for someone who is in the lower disks, the new method of calculation may lead to significant differences. That would not be the case, the Minister could not confirm in reply to Mr Vermeersch's question in committee. For this reason, it is a pity that the Minister in committee so quickly rejected the suggestion of a number of fiscalists to consider an exemption from taxation of foreign real estate pending a final settlement. Such an exemption may be limited to real estate within the European Economic Area. This method was applied in a different tax context in the past and was not challenged afterwards. Moreover, this method also responds to your main objection expressed in committee, Minister. Finally, the question arises as to why the tax authorities should be given such a mass work and the citizens should be burdened with new complex legislation, if all this turns out to be in vain in a few years' time. Is the new legislation perhaps just a sneaking step from the government towards the introduction of a capital card after CAP? After all, we read in the press that the tax authorities are already making serious calls to taxpayers to record all the details of their real estate purchases abroad. I have just heard the sp.a member here proudly declare that we already have access to the bank account of all Belgians. That scares me. After all, I thought that there had to be an indication of fraud before the CAP could be consulted. To conclude, we are satisfied that Belgian landlords are left untouched. However, we are also very sceptical about the new regulation that you are proposing. The effect is complex. There is a chance of new forms of unequal treatment. So this evening we are discussing a second draft tax bill, whose sustainability may prove to be very limited. We shall therefore abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u4	Madam President, I would like to refer to the reply of the Minister who just spoke. He was talking about the genesis, a superb staircase in semantics. Unfortunately, you didn't use it on the committee. Otherwise, we could've gotten it through here for a while. In your words of thanks, you have forgotten the liberals. You did not specifically thank them for taking this tax. Maybe you can fix that later? To stay in that Catholic rhetoric, as I said in committee, they must have thought: if Moses doesn't come to the mountain, then the mountain will come to Moses. If Europe does not want our cadastral income, we will bring our cadastral income to Europe. And so it was. The Belgian cadastral income is exported abroad today with this bill. The archaic Belgian system, based on a fictitious rental value from 1975, is thus further expanded. It is a debatable bureaucratic process, in which one should actually have a bit of luck in determining that cadastral income. All the fiscalists, I have certainly not found any who claim the opposite. I agree that this is a kaduuk system that leads to injustices. It's a 1975 system. I wasn't born yet. It was the year when the Vietnam War came to an end and the seat belt became mandatory. That's how long it's been. This is, of course, not the modern, transparent and fair taxation that this government has promised. This solution is Belgian tax surrealism at the top. In November last year, Europe forced Belgium to tax rent income differently. The Belgian tax on foreign real estate has been a thorn in the eye of Europe for years. This country was thus finally put to death by the European Court of Justice. On 11 September 2014, a judgment of the Court of Justice showed that the Belgian scheme on rental income was contrary to European law. In April 2018, the European Court of Justice condemned the discrimination between foreign and domestic rental income, i.e. before the Marrakesh Pact. Since the Swedish Government did nothing at the time with N-VA at the time, and after that the Wilmès government did not solve the file, the European Commission finally started a second procedure in July 2020, leading to a penalty sentence in November 2020. It must now all progress very quickly with this bill, because the European Court of Justice condemned Belgium to a high fine in November. The European Court held that that assessment was contrary to the free movement of capital. The judgment stated that Belgium did not implement the first judgment and could therefore no longer appeal. The hot potato was simply moved from one government to another and the majority parties could and should have known that this delicate dossier had to be resolved. The European Court of Justice sentenced Belgium to EUR 2 million and, as long as no adapted tax legislation applies, the government has to pay a daily penalty payment of EUR 7,500. This is the result of the Belgian non-policy. It is clear that the majority parties did not agree on this point at the negotiating table. During the negotiations, therefore, the hot potato was simply pushed forward and ended up in the lap of the new finance minister. As a welcome gift, that can count. Mr Donné already reported the good news. There will be no additional taxes on domestic landlords of real estate. Therefore, there is no impact on domestic rental revenues. That is a good thing. The Minister of Finance has already made it clear in the Committee on Finance and Budget, at the request of the Flemish Interest, that this is not a preliminaries of the comprehensive fiscal reform. Thus, for domestic rental income, there is no short-term impact, but for the medium and long-term, the Minister does not exclude a tax on domestic rental income. The Greens and the Socialists in this government are even eager to tax domestic rent income. So a warned homeowner is worth two. Mr Vandenbroucke had it recorded in Knack that a tax on rental income is an option in this respect. When the fox preaches the passion, burp your geese. In committee he also said that his opinions have become almost one-to-one the fiscal policy of this government. He writes an opinion piece in the summer and it eventually becomes government policy, so many months later. That is once again proof that the socialists in this country determine tax policy. The Socialists, of course, forget to say that taxing these domestic rental revenues will disrupt the rental market. A lot of tenants, people who sometimes get a little harder to get by, will eventually get even harder. The tax administration will therefore have to determine the cadastral income of 150,000 Belgians abroad. This will really be a titanic work for the administration Measurements and Ratings. 150,000 owners will therefore have to provide information about their property, the address of their home, the type (villa, apartment or house), the normal sales value, and if this is not known, the price and the year of purchase is apparently sufficient. So it's going to be a huge job to process those 150,000 declarations of cadastral income but also to check them all. After all, we can imagine that owners might be tempted to make their foreign real estate look less expensive than it really is. Someone can turn a dump into a villa and eventually keep quiet about the renovations that have been carried out. In their own country there may be a check by the land register, but in other countries this is of course a lot more difficult. Moreover, these difficult to verify data can create some kind of legal uncertainty in relation to the taxable person. That is not unimportant, because this bill provides for substantial fines. Minister, if we can be so bold as to say that we already know one place where we would be very careful to insist on a check by your services. On the French island of Île d'Yeu, a Belgian owner is renovating and expanding a building, with all the local building regulations being ignored. Perhaps this royally renovated holiday villa will also be covered by this bill. It would serve as an example if this already controversial property were first checked. So far, our non-binding suggestion. Minister, you could have saved your administration a lot of work by simply releasing foreign real estate. This would cost the government little and the limited resources available from the administration could be used more efficiently in other areas. Now a whole administrative machine is put up and owners are saddled with advice costs, while the soup is not worth the cabbage. The administration, the taxpayers and their fiscalists are burdened with a lot of work, for what you call a budget-neutral measure. A tax lawyer states that the draft law before us seems to be a subsidy for fiscalists, because it creates a lot of extra work. In order to remain in the spirit of the coalition agreement, the efficiency of the fiscalists will increase by this bill. However, Professor Michel Maus claims that there is still discrimination between domestic and foreign rental income. In the magazine Trends he states: "If I apply the method to some foreign homes, they are still taxed higher than comparable properties in Belgium. This will undoubtedly lead again to a series of proceedings, to the European Court of Justice. That doesn't predict much good. A person with a residence abroad in the highest tax jurisdiction will not notice much of this bill. However, this does not apply to those in the lower tax brackets, where the difference may be considerable. For example, small pensioners who supplement their pension with foreign rental income will have to pay significantly more tax through the new tax base. The same applies to those who buy a shack, for example, and thus have no real rent income yet, but possibly a higher cadastral income. Minister, on our question in committee, you indicated that you have no idea of the individual impact of this bill on, for example, small pensioners, people who are in the lower tax brackets or people who, for example, buy a renovation property. These are very specific situations which we will have to monitor when this draft law is rolled out. At present, Belgium has not concluded, with the exception of a few exceptions, arrangements with partner states for the automatic exchange of information on immovable property under the Belgian double taxation treaties. Minister, within the framework of this draft law, we would like to call on you once again to engage urgently in negotiations with countries around the Mediterranean on the exchange of information on real estate. I said it in committee. A study carried out by the King Baudouin Foundation a few years ago shows that 60% of Moroccan residents in our country own property in Morocco. At the request of your predecessor, Minister of Finance Johan Van Overtveldt, the tax administration has informally contacted the tax authorities of Morocco and Turkey, among others. However, that dossier was never finished by the Minister. Such an agreement can be concluded between tax administrations and does not require a revision of the Double Taxation Convention. We therefore expressly call on you, as a new minister and responsible, to relaunch negotiations on the automatic exchange of information on real estate with Morocco and Turkey, among others. That is a clear appeal from our group. We look forward to your answer. The Council of State has also raised particularly critical questions about this bill. However, these questions do not prevent this government from pushing this bill through Parliament quickly. Contrary to the securities tax, where you have added a lot of weight on the basis of the criticism of the Council of State, that seems to be less the case here. For example, the Council of State questions the correction factor that would be used to reduce foreign property to its 1975 value. This correction factor applies to all countries, without distinction. Of course, the value of an identical villa in Romania or Spain will not be the same. But according to your correction factor, it is. No distinction is made between regions within countries. That means that this correction factor is not a good reflection of economic reality. The same criticism applies to the flat rate of EUR 2 per hectare for unbuilt real estate abroad. This method does not exactly correspond to the scheme applicable in Belgium. For Belgian real estate the rental value of 1 January 1975 or the cadastral income is determined by comparison. The 2 euro scheme only applies when no other data are available. This exception is now made by you with this bill as a rule for foreign unbuilt real estate. The Council of State notes that this arrangement may also not pass the test of the European Court of Justice. This draft law introduces new reporting obligations in order to establish cadastral income. Fines for non-compliance with the reporting obligations are also substantially increased. A fine of EUR 50 to EUR 1,250 can be imposed today. These amounts will be increased to EUR 250 to EUR 3,000 in the end. This is an increase of 150 % to almost 400 %. The fines are usually even higher than the tax itself. I'll come to my decision. We will abstain in the vote on the draft law. The alternative, taxing the domestic rental income, would not have been desirable for us. The joint governments of this country have failed for years to solve the problem. Europe must, in the end, impose a penalty on governments in order to persuade them to take action. 2 million euros have already been paid in. A further fine of EUR 1,350 million will be due in May 2021. That is ultimately the cost of Belgian non-policy. Exporting our cadastral income abroad is of course Belgian fiscal surrealism. The exemption of foreign real estate would have been a better alternative. The draft law before us will burden the administration with a great deal of work and legal uncertainty for taxpayers. It is also in danger of being destroyed again by the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u5	Madam President, this bill aims to put an end to the €7,500 daily penalty imposed by the European Court of Justice as long as Belgium taxes property situated in Belgium differently from that of Belgians located abroad (about 150 000). In committee, I asked the minister to situate us in which deciles these owners were located. Are we talking about high-income people or are we talking about disparate, high, medium, low incomes? The minister could not provide an answer. We remain on this uncertainty as to who this tax is addressed to. The solution of this text is to stop taxing goods abroad on the basis of reality and to do so now on the basis of cadastral income, i.e. on the basis of a concept that does not exist abroad since cadastral income is a typical Belgian concept, which exists only at home. For example, a Belgian owner who rents some 30 apartments on the Champs-Élysées to Parisians will be taxed on the basis of the theoretical reconstruction of a cadastral income of Belgium in 1975, since it was on that date that the cadastral income was calculated, which is called cadastral equalization. Behind this lame solution, there is a more general problem related to the multiple anomalies in the taxation of real property by our country, whether at home or abroad. I take this opportunity to point out these multiple anomalies. Firstly, Belgium is the only country in Europe that does not impose rental property on the basis of real rental income. It would seem logical to tax income, possibly deducting expenses to tax net income. No, I don't! This is not the option of Belgian taxation. I'm going to the second anomaly. The main tax on these revenues is the real estate discount based on cadastral income. This real estate discount applies to rental property, but also to property occupied by the owner. There is a clear difference between occupying one's own home and leasing one or more properties for rent. The third anomaly is this cadastral equalization, which dates back to 1975. The fact that it is relatively old is not a problem in itself; rather, the problem lies in the cumulation of two discriminations. The first discrimination is due to the clear difference between the value established by the cadastre in 1975 and the present value of housing. On the other hand, a study shows that this difference is even more pronounced in the case of larger houses in larger neighbourhoods. So there is a gap from reality, which benefits the richest. This discrimination is in addition to a second discrimination, which also favours the richest. The real estate discount rate is higher in poorer municipalities and provinces than in richer municipalities and provinces. This is easily explained by the fact that the tax base is lower in poor areas, as the houses are smaller and less luxurious, so that local and provincial authorities are obliged to apply higher rates in order to have the same budgetary return. So that Mr Piedboeuf does not come to quote the example of his commune of Tintigny, I will take as an example my commune of Morlanwelz in Hainaut. This commune is not the poorest but is far from the richest. The additional cents are 2,750. In Lasne, which is the richest municipality in Wallonia – and is still far from the richest municipality in Flanders (Sint-Martens-Latem) – the additional cents amount to 1,400. You see the difference! I'm getting to the fourth anomaly. This is the globalization of income, a principle that is reflected in the program of, so to speak, all left-wing parties in our country. The idea is to say why tax business income, financial income and real estate income differently. It is true that if income were to be consolidated, it would greatly increase the tax base, and that would reduce the tax rates for low and middle income, and lead to better progressivity. This would allow those with less income to pay less taxes, without necessarily implying higher rates for others. But globalization would bring additional revenue. However, with the very specific system of Belgian real estate taxation, this is not the case at all. The fifth anomaly stems from the Minister's statement that he would not proceed with a new cadastral equalization, that he would not review cadastral income. I understand his logic. I am not saying that I justify it, but I understand the idea that, from the moment that all these means – cadastral equalization is not a small transaction, it would require a lot of means – would be committed by the federal government, which, for the moment, is eliminating 5,000 jobs, there would be no return on this investment in tax revenues, since real estate tax revenues are mainly on the side of entity 2, and not of the federal government. As far as the sixth anomaly is concerned, one might say that the taxation of real estate income in our country is wrong, but that we will, fortunately, introduce a tax on wealth that will affect the wealth of the richest, including their real estate assets. This refers to the discussion of the previous text on the security account tax which does not apply to immovable property, non-financial movable property, or even financial property when it comes to nominal shares. It only affects the securities accounts. So, we're missing the check! This series of anomalies means that, in the end, a solution is found very quickly to a problem to which – that is true – we must respond quickly; however, this is really not a fundamental solution. Somewhere, an anomaly of Belgian taxation is extended to taxation that will apply to real estate abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u6	Madam President, this draft law provides a very pragmatic solution to the problem for which our country was fined by the European Court of Justice. Allow me to comment on the various comments. Mr Donné, you call the draft law a pragmatic solution, and indeed it is. Therefore, I do not understand your proposal to exempt all foreign real estate. We have another definition of fiscal justice, or, as you call it, fiscal correctness, which we wish to pursue. I do not understand why we should distinguish between people with an apartment by the sea or in the Ardennes and people with an apartment in the French Provence or the Spanish costas. We certainly cannot make that distinction. There were two questions that I did not answer in committee. Mr Vermeersch, your question concerns the countries to which you referred. There has indeed been contact with the authorities of these countries, and also from a number of other countries, to conclude agreements for the automatic exchange of information on immovable property. The result is negative, as these countries showed no willingness to organise such an exchange. This is not just about Morocco, it is also about other countries. For us, it is particularly important for countries to focus on the full, correct and substantial implementation of the CRS exchange. Moreover, in our country, but also in several other countries, all the information we expect is not always available in a centralized, automated or computerized manner. Mr Van Hees, you asked a question about the distribution of the deciles. Of course, I cannot answer that today, but you can always put a written question to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u7	Minister, I would like to comment on your answer. My suggestion on the exemption is based on the fact that your draft is problematic in three respects: it is complex, it is burdening the administration with unnecessarily much work in relation to what it brings, it creates legal uncertainty for a number of citizens and, if I may believe the Council of State and the Finance Inspectorate, I cannot, however, judge the latter, because we have not seen that report, and we have also introduced a potential inequality in the new system. If I put all this together, I might be more in favour of a system which specifically provides for an exemption for real estate situated in the European Economic Area, partly because, given the system of progression retention, taxation in those countries has a very low tax impact on most of the citizens and would be particularly beneficial to the citizens who are in the lowest tax brackets. I therefore do not think that the exemption system would be less correct than the one you are proposing. It doesn't have a number of flaws that your system does, but that's a choice you make. The choice of exemption certainly does not seem to me to be the easy solution, which would entail many other problems. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u8	Madam President, I would like to reply to the Minister's answer to my question. You seem simply to accept the refusal of, among other things, Morocco and Turkey to exchange this information with our country, Minister. The information you mentioned was already known before you became Minister, even before the government was formed. My question to you, as a new minister, as a new representative, was to retake that initiative, not only for the federal government but in cooperation with the regions, because the information on real estate is important not only within the framework of this bill but also for the regions. Remember that people who have social housing should not have second property. Remember the case of someone of Moroccan origin who lives in a social home and who appears to have dozens of real estate estates, buildings or homes in the country of origin. This information is necessary, not only within the framework of this draft law, but also for the regions, in order to be able to pursue a decent social policy and to allocate the social housing to the people who are really entitled to it. You are also the Minister for the Coordination of Fraud Prevention. This is one of the major frauds that must be tackled in this country. Hence our group's express call for this exchange of information with Morocco and Turkey, among others, to work at last and to do so in cooperation with the regions and not simply to dismiss you in the event of a refusal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u9	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u10	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1762/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1762/3) The bill has 16 articles. The draft law has 16 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u11	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u12	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u13	Madam Chair, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the bill is, first, to extend the doubling of the amount of the financial benefit under the temporary bridge law crisis measure in the event of a forced interruption for the month of February 2021. Secondly, it aims to postpone the entry into force of the first pillar of the new temporary crisis bridge law regime until 1 March 2021. Third, it aims to provide for the application of a cumulative ceiling for the financial benefit as part of the temporary crisis measure under the law bridge with other replacement income. Fourthly, the purpose of this bill is to amend the concept of "family dependent" for the award of the allowance by the notion of "the fact of having a dependent". However, this simplification could lead to abuses that a royal decree would prevent. Following Minister Clarinval's introductory presentation, the members of the Social Affairs Committee asked questions and made the following comments. First of all, Mr. Anseew for the N-VA shares the overall objective of the bill, which is to provide self-employed workers with all the support they need in this time of crisis. Although relaxations to containment measures are in sight, the situation remains very difficult for many sectors. In that connection, he believed that a better balance should be sought from now on between health measures and the aspirations of those workers to resume their normal activities. In other words, it calls for a clearer exit strategy for the self-employed, considering the government's approach too rough. As a reminder, last December, the proposal for a law introducing the new terms of the bridge right - on the one hand, doubling the amount of the bridge right, and on the other hand, the introduction of a new proportional bridge right regime linked to the proven loss of turnover - had already been adopted under very chaotic conditions and not conducive to legislative work. Incidentally, the Committee notes that the date of entry into force referred to in article 6 of the draft has already been exceeded and that this provision should be adapted. On the substance of the draft, he endorsed the principle of support. However, it points out that the dual bridge right is not the most appropriate support measure. Indeed, for a number of self-employed workers, this right, which is supposed to be only a replacement income, makes it possible to earn more than before the crisis. For others, however, it does not allow for the fixed costs that the self-employed must continue to bear if they wish to be able to resume their normal activities one day. A more focused policy lever should be used. A positive point of the project is that it finally establishes a ceiling on the accumulation of various allowances, for example between bridge law and sickness benefits. According to Mr. Anseew, a few technical points need to be clarified. What about the double bridge right of self-employed persons who resume their activities in the course of February? Are they entitled to the full amount, to nothing or to a pro rata amount? What about those who will be officially allowed to resume their activities but who de facto, because of the sanitary conditions impossible to meet, will not be able to do so, for example hairdressers whose salon is too small to accommodate customers? Can the Minister clarify the budget data on this issue? The Finance Inspectorate quotes different amounts ranging from EUR 189 million to EUR 289 million per month depending on these two scenarios of restarting. The project empowers the King to make an order in order to prevent the increased bridge right for self-employed with dependent families from being accumulated within the same household. Is a draft order already ready? Has the Council of State already given an opinion on this draft? Finally, the project largely empowers the King to extend the support measures. In its time, the Council of State had already criticized an authorization designed so widely. What about it? Ms Cornet for Ecolo-Groen broadly endorsed the approach of supporting self-employed workers. With regard to the delegation to the King to put an end to the cumulation of the increased right for dependent families within the same household, she noted that, in her view, it was not, strictly speaking, an abuse of the rights of beneficiaries, but probably an involuntary step towards the individualization of rights. However, it believes that due care should be taken to ensure legality. A great deal of latitude is left to the government through the authorization of the King with regard to the extension of the measures. What are the Minister's intentions in this regard? If these support mechanisms were to be extended, they should be further refined in order to keep the reality on the ground as closely as possible. Indeed, the situation of an independent who continues to carry out part of his activity in collect & go is not comparable to that of the one who has had to interrupt any activity and who continues to pay his fixed costs. Finally, what is the situation of the self-employed as a complement? Can they benefit from the bridge right? Ms Thémont, for the PS, agreed with her group as a whole on the measures taken by the project. The extension of the support measures for the self-employed is indeed of the utmost importance. Mr Verreyt, for Vlaams Belang, stressed the extremely harsh nature of the ongoing crisis for the self-employed, especially since they lacked prospects for reopening activities. This is probably the most important element for most self-employed people. The Council of State made two observations concerning the authorizations to the King, which were considered to be extremely broad, on the one hand with regard to the extension of the measures, and on the other with regard to the non-cumulation within the same household of the increased amount for dependents. On this last point, what is the situation of divorced parents? What about the recomposed families? In general, he was surprised at the lack of predictability of the measures adopted, which were, so to speak, extended from month to month. Why not anticipate more and thus create a beginning of perspective for the self-employed? Especially since it is well known that certain sectors - the event to name only one - will not reopen for months. Why does this project not already provide for the extension of the double bridge right for the month of March, when we are almost in mid-February, instead of granting an authorization to the King? Christophe Bombled, for the MR, first thanks the minister for the bill and its introduction. The MR Group would also like to thank him for his attention to the many challenges that continue to be faced by certain sectors of activity. For them, these support measures are still essential. While some independents will be able to practice their profession again in the coming days or weeks, he believes that we cannot forget sectors such as culture, events, horeca, of course, but many others. For them, it is essential that they have prospects for reopening as soon as possible. Psychologically, too, it's important to them. He looked to the minister's pugnacity and the government's support to extend the crisis measures beyond the 31 March deadline, if the health situation so required. Whether it is for those sectors that will still need it or for those entrepreneurs that face a very complicated situation. If we have been in a new situation for almost a year now, and we do not yet know the end of it, then we must not resign ourselves, nor abandon those entrepreneurs who do not know what tomorrow will be done. On the contrary, it is our responsibility and our duty to be with them. We must help them to better consider the future by offering them opportunities, either in relation to a reopening date or, if it is sometimes difficult to give a reopening date for certain sectors of activity, at least by providing them with a perspective in terms of support measures. Ms. Lanjri, for the CD&V, felt that the mechanisms to support the self-employed should be maintained until the existing containment measures were lifted. While certain abuses such as the cumulation of the increased charge for dependent families should be combated, they should not be considered to be widespread. She asked whether there were any figures on possible abuses. It is true that the deliberate choice of administrative simplification in the context of measures taken during the pandemic may not facilitate controls. With regard to the targeting of measures, she agreed with previous speakers that the dual bridge law was probably not a sufficiently fine tool, since some independents could not, with this alone, cover even their fixed costs. The first pillar of the new bridge law, adopted in December, should be implemented as soon as possible, which gives rise to the right to proportionate intervention and is subject to loss of turnover. However, this project postpones the implementation of this measure by one month. She hoped that the coming into force would not be postponed at a later date, especially since the new mechanism was both more targeted and less costly for the community. Ms Moscufo, for the PTB, referred to the dismay of the self-employed who, for many, would like to return to work but have no clear prospect of the forthcoming reopening of the sectors of activity. For the speaker, the least we can say if we keep the closure of certain businesses is to continue to support them financially. In this regard, bridge law is not the most appropriate instrument, with many small independents falling outside the mechanism. In addition, other levers and instruments of action are either not used or are used only inadequately, e.g. rent freezes, a moratorium on the repayment of credits, etc. She asked what prospects were being offered to the self-employed today. It must be honest to admit that, in the current health context, no prediction or promise can be made to date. Why, therefore, should aid mechanisms be adopted by piecemeal, month after month, rather than by quarter or even by June? The project was insufficient on that point, but the speaker would support it because it was better than nothing. Mrs De Jonge for the Open Vld congratulates the Minister on the initiative taken, which provides timely assistance to the self-employed who are forced to suspend their activities in full or in part. While the dual bridge right did not always cover fixed costs, she felt that, after almost a year of health crisis, it was of the utmost importance to start offering prospects for exiting the crisis. The reopening announced on 13 February of the hairdressers, followed on 1 March by the other contact trades, is a step in the right direction. The same should be done to the extent possible for other sectors forced to close, including Horeca, taking into account the epidemiological situation and the progress of the vaccination campaign. Mrs Vanrobaeys for the sp.a group shared the views expressed by previous speakers. More specifically, she wondered about the situation of self-employed persons working in sectors which were not officially forced to close but which depended heavily on the activity of sectors affected by a total closure or a considerable loss of turnover, giving as an example a small laundry company which would only work for a hotel which had chosen to close. Can this laundry use the bridge right? In addition, there seems to be still a problem with information for self-employed workers. They are not always clearly informed by the social insurance funds of the possibilities of deferral or exemption from social contributions, not to mention the implications for their social pension rights, for example. Social insurance funds should be asked to strengthen their communication to the self-employed. Minister Clarinval then answered questions from the members of the commission. It considers it necessary, as a matter of priority, to temper criticism of bridge law. In fact, it is above all a replacement income for the self-employed who are forced to interrupt their activity – an income of a flat-rate nature. Graydon's study pointed out that a tiny minority of self-employed people – 2% to 3% – could earn more through bridge law than through their professional activity, because of the flat-rate nature of this right. For many of them, this amount is insufficient to cover fixed costs. It should be pointed out that this is not the primary function of the bridge law, which is to provide replacement income for self-employed workers, rather than to cover the costs associated with the prospect of resuming an activity. In order to compensate for these losses resulting from fixed costs, other aid mechanisms must, where appropriate, be activated. First of all, at the federal level, we can mention the actions taken by the Minister of Finance with regard to his administration and the banking sector, as well as by the Minister of Economy with regard to insurance companies. Secondly, these mechanisms can be activated at the regional level – for example with commercial leases, which fall within the competence of the Regions. That is why the Minister insists on his intention not to extend the current mechanism indefinitely and, on the contrary, wishes to be able to bring into force as soon as possible the second pillar of the new bridge law, introduced by the Act of 22 December 2020. The latter, which is conditioned and proportionate to the established loss of revenue, has the advantage of better targeting needs on the ground and being less expensive. The double bridge applies to sectors that are forced to close or close – for those sectors that depend on an activity at a standstill – as part of health measures in the context of the covid crisis. Depending on the situation, if the confinement is to be renewed in whole or in part, the double bridge will continue to apply, but there will no longer be a need for an amendment to the Act. This is the meaning of the authorization given to the King by this bill, because we must not give ourselves false hopes: many sectors – including events – will remain closed for a few more months. As clarifications, the self-employed in an area previously forced to close, but allowed to reopen in the course of February – especially the hairdressers – will benefit 100% of the double bridge right for that same month. Those who will continue to benefit from the double bridge are those who fall within sectors which are forced to close and who are fully dependent on an activity at a standstill. This can therefore concern suppliers who are completely dependent on the Horeca.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u14	Mr Bombled, I do not want to interrupt you, but I do not believe that I am misinterpreting what is felt in the Chamber by reminding you that this is a report. But you are giving us an almost complete account of it. We've been listening to you for some time. It'll be curfew soon. Therefore, we should speed up the reading of the report a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u15	Madam President, there is no problem: I shall finish. The gradual shift from the first to the second pillar of the bridge law – and, as long as the first pillar is, as the minister calls it, renewed by royal decree – will take place in accordance with the pace of deconfinity. No one at the moment can venture to set a timetable on this point, which is why the Finance Inspectorate and the Minister have mentioned a monthly budgetary impact ranging from 289 million euros for the current situation to 189 million euros for a situation of definity, but with the need to compensate for the larger turnover losses. The Minister has already had the opportunity to make his views known on the issues of deconfining and the pace of re-opening the sectors, but in any event, the decisions are the responsibility of the Consultation Committee. At present, the only clear information concerns hairdressers, who will be able to reopen from 13 February, and the other contact jobs, which will reopen from 1 March next. The disarray that strikes the independents does not escape the minister. Not a day goes by without bringing his batch of testimonies and appeals, to which the minister's office systematically responds. While Graydon refers to 20% of businesses and self-employed who are at risk of closure in 2021, it should be remembered that this is an average that hides huge disparities. Thus, the construction sector is not as affected as the Horeca, for example. The only thing we can do right now is to continue to support the self-employed as best we can. The Minister holds meetings with absolutely all sectors to develop practical health protocols in order to best prepare the phases of deconfining in the light of health requirements. The comments made by the Council of State on the bill have been taken into account. With regard in particular to delegations to the King, the Legislative Section requested that clarification be included in the explanatory memorandum, which was well completed on this point to which the Minister refers. The same applies to the postponement of the entry into force of the second pillar of the bridge right or the anti-abuse measure relating to the rate of intervention increased in the first pillar. On this last point, the Minister points out that it is not necessarily a matter of countering the abuses found, but of filling a legal gap. This closes the door to possible abuses. As the Royal Enforcement Order is not yet ready, the Council of State has not yet delivered an opinion. As regards self-employed persons on a supplementary basis, the situation is the same as in December: those who contribute on the basis of an annual net taxable income of less than €7,700 (rounded) are not entitled to the bridge fee, from €7,700 to €14,000, they are entitled to the half bridge and to the full bridge beyond €14,000. These are net amounts that are taxable and rounded. The members of the committee then voted on the articles of the bill. Articles 1 to 5 were successively adopted unanimously and with regard to Article 6 regulating the entry into force, in order to take account of the fact that the date provided for in the draft was exceeded, the committee approved the technical correction which consists of giving retroactive effect to the whole project with effect from 1 February 2021, except for Chapter 3 which takes effect from 1 March 2020. Article 6 was also adopted unanimously and the bill as a whole, as technically corrected, was adopted by a unanimous vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u16	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Bombled, who has spared no effort in gassing us with a full oral report. Madam President, by interrupting him in an attempt to move things forward, you have probably unintentionally ensured that what followed was above all a stress test for the interpreters. After all, he started to speed up as only a flandrien can do on pounding cobblestones. It must be said that the interpreters have remained in his wheel and almost passed him at the end. I would therefore like to pay tribute to the interpreters, who are not always under the market today. Having said that, I should like to make a brief point myself. The long-term containment of, among other things, the freedom for self-employed entrepreneurs to undertake weighs very heavily on many of them. The carefully built-up reserves in the precorona period, to the extent that they were already there, are almost entirely driven by many self-employed people. After all, it is not because they are not allowed to work that a lot of fixed costs and expenses have been lost. The rent doesn't just fall away and investments have to be paid off further. The self-employed therefore deserve our support more than ever, especially since we will need them as a core of our economic fabric after the corona crisis. We will vote for this bill in full, because they need our support. They have been able to count on the support of N-VA for many years, and they will continue to do so. However, a doubling of the bridging right is not a fine-meshed measure. For a small group of self-employed people, it means that they earn an income higher than what they earn in normal times, but for many more self-employed people, doubling is not even enough to keep their heads above water. We are really concerned about the latter, because even if the right of bridging does not serve to keep a company, but to keep the entrepreneur right, for an independent person, it is a long time since today with which euro he can continue to pay off a loan for his business, as long as he can pay them off. Colleagues, and especially the Minister, as a representative of this government, it is therefore extremely important to do everything possible to finally give self-employed people a new perspective on a good income. That's why we need to give them the chance to get back to work massively. Hence my appeal to the government. We will support your draft law today, but no longer limit corona policy to the search for the best restrictive measure to prevent a pandemic, but also actively seek measures to give self-employed people the chance to work safely. No longer give the impression that it is a favor for the hairdressers and other self-employed to be allowed to work again, it is a right. The focus should therefore no longer be solely on restricting freedoms, such as the freedom to undertake and work, but must now move urgently towards finding ways of making work possible again in all freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u17	Colleagues, we will of course support this draft on the double right of bridging. The importance of that measure is clear. It's more urgent than ever. Nevertheless, we do believe that other measures need to be taken and a different approach is needed. We cannot afford to extend the aid until the end of each month. This creates a lot of uncertainty and stress for the self-employed. It is not okay that self-employed people are always afraid of the end of the month and have to wait to find out if they can count on the single or double right of bridging. I've spoken to several self-employed people. They all say the same thing. Every month they have to make excuses for creditors that it will be better the next month. In addition, the additional stress is caused by uncertainty as to whether they will be granted a single or double right of bridging. Therefore, the PVDA-PTB believes that the method should change with sound guarantees for the self-employed. We do not know exactly when the sectors that are now standing still will be able to open again. No one in this hemisphere knows that. Until then, we can at least provide the assurance that a certain amount of support can be provided until the sectors are reopened. We therefore ask you to link the period for granting aid to the period during which the sectors concerned are closed. We also believe that other aid measures are possible. The doubling of the right of bridging is certainly a good measure. Let's get that straight. However, the measure does not take into account the reality of the companies at present and the costs they face. In this respect, it would be useful to take measures to reduce the fixed costs of traders. I am thinking, for example, of the energy bills. I would also like to stress that many self-employed people are unable or difficult to obtain the aid or are receiving it too late because of the many administrative thresholds they face. That is why we are once again calling for administrative simplification, both for the self-employed and for the payment institutions which are facing a very heavy workload. We note that some self-employed persons still do not receive aid because they do not meet the criteria. I am thinking of the self-employed who have just begun their activity, the self-employed in the main occupation or in the secondary profession who have not contributed sufficiently during the period laid down, the false self-employed in the cooperative economy and others. Minister, I do not know if you remember, but in December 2020 during the budget negotiations I asked you what would happen to starting self-employed people. I set the example of a comrade of mine. You replied to me at the time that the government would not abandon anyone. You asked me to send him to your cabinet and follow the steps. You wouldn't abandon anyone. Mr. Secretary, that man has had to break up in the meantime. He's in debt with 300,000 euros. He has not yet received a single euro from the government. All creditors' claims keep coming in just because he started his business on 1 April 2020. That's just ridiculous. It's just ridiculous that people who already have the hardest, the new starters, can't claim anything. In our view, the moratorium on bankruptcies could also be extended, because its abolition, as the UCM points out, does not provide effective solutions for the sectors that are still closed. I conclude, we should not only have suspended rents, we should have forced the banks and certainly the insurance companies to play the game to help the self-employed. We really cannot rely solely on their goodwill. It is really unacceptable that the banks are still so reluctant to lend, despite the guarantee given by the State. PVDA-PTB believes that the government should come up with a solution, not only for the banks and insurance institutions but also, for example, for the payment terminals. After all, all the self-employed pay for payment terminals that have been stationary for months. The costs are rising and there is no one who wants to take responsibility for this. I will not go into it further because I am somewhat out of the scope of the draft law. Mr Minister, the doubling of the right of bridging is necessary, I repeat: necessary, but largely inadequate. After all, it is not part of a coherent whole. We regret this and continue to advocate a coherent solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u18	I am very pleased that the Minister and the Government are extending the necessary support measures for those sectors which have been severely affected by a complete or partial closure. The situation for different sectors is very serious. Each one of us is in contact with entrepreneurs who have been talking to the water and who have had to resort to their reserves for quite some time to make ends meet. The support in the form of a double bridging right is absolutely necessary to survive. For some, that is often not enough to pay the fixed costs, let alone that they can live on them private. The hospitality sector and the event sector have been particularly affected. The life's work that entrepreneurs have worked so hard on is at stake in many people, so support is more than necessary. Restaurants have been locked for seven months. That also means no income from their activities for seven months. Some parts of the event sector, for example, will be inactive for almost a year in one month. These are difficult times, and so we must not only extend the support measures, but also work on the future with a re-launch plan and ensure that they all recover. In the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda yesterday, representatives of the catering and other sectors outlined the situation and made it clear how difficult these sectors are to survive. They look forward to the future and more than rightly so. After all, they are the ideal partners for developing a good plan for the future. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister in our Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions confirmed that he would consult with the sectors on possible support measures and on the preparation of a plan for opening up. The Prime Minister was also very clear earlier. Advice is requested from the expert group to consider whether a perspective can be offered. Everything, of course, depends on the evolution of the pandemic. Even if a perspective is important, we must not give false hope. One thing is certain: this sector wants to get to work as quickly as possible, and that is also a challenge for Parliament. We will therefore vote in favour of the draft law with great conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u19	Mr President, I would like to stress a few points. Firstly, no one doubts the usefulness of extending the double bridging right. There have been several requests for perspective here, and I understand that the Consultative Committee will look at this next time. Tomorrow we will not organize festivals and not everything will open at once. In particular, as long as the self-employed are forced to close their cases or as long as they are restricted to opening up or subject to all kinds of restrictions, I would ask that they be assured that they can always count on our solidarity and social security. It's important that we give them that support. Secondly, what we decide here must actually become known to the self-employed. I asked for this in December, and I have seen that there is now an overview of the federal and regional aid measures on the website of the RSVZ, for which I thank you, by the way. After all, it is often difficult to find a way around all these different levels of competence and decisions. Two weeks ago, the self-employed received a first payment invitation from social security funds for social security contributions. I noticed that in my mailbox, too. Many small self-employed people thought they had to pay more than 1,000 euros, while their business has been closed for months. They were totally unaware of the possibility of deferment or exemption from payment. I would therefore urge that we immediately indicate the possibilities we have worked out here to give them some breathing space when another e-mail is sent to pay contributions. If it isn't, it doesn't make much sense. What we decide here must actually become known to the self-employed, now that the water is really on their lips.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u20	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, the bill is intended to extend the doubling of the bridge right of temporary crisis in the event of a forced interruption for the month of February 2021. Therefore, the implementation of the first pillar provided for in the Act of 22 December 2020 is postponed to 1 March 2021. The December 2020 Act provided for the introduction of a system based on three pillars of bridge law. A first pillar is aimed at the self-employed who are forced to stop their activities completely because of the health measures taken by the public authorities. A second pillar is aimed at self-employed people facing a considerable loss of turnover. A third pillar covers quarantine or care situations for children under the age of 18 who are placed in quarantine and/or whose school or crèche is closed. The entry into force of the three pillars has been split. Pillars 2 and 3 entered into force on 1 January 2021. The first pillar was to enter into force on February 1, 2021, but the entry into force was postponed until March 1, 2021. The entry into force date of 1 January 2021 for the other two pillars is not based on any credible justification, if only budgetary, given that the second wave of the Covid-19 started in October 2020. On the basis of this finding, we had proposed that the provision should be retroactive to 1 November 2020, which had been claimed by the Union des Classes Moyennes in the same way, but this was refused. Indeed, many independents were not forced to discontinue their activities during this second wave, and yet they suffered a considerable drop in their turnover. These include hotels and physiotherapists who have not been forced to close a shop but are nevertheless in extremely precarious situations and who feel the impact of the crisis almost as much as those who have actually had to stop their activities, who have been receiving government support only since January, i.e. two long months too late. In its opinion on the bill, the CGG also reiterates its concern about the need for a complete forced interruption of activity in order to take into consideration the double amount of the bridge right of crisis. This criterion prevents the system from being accessible to any independent person suffering from a considerable loss of income. In its November 23, 2020 opinion, the GMC had already explicitly requested that a mechanism be provided to provide retroactive relief for the consequences of the second confinement for those self-employed who had not been able to rely on the other bridge systems. That is the same logic we followed when we tabled the amendment in December to move forward with the implementation of the second pillar so that it would be applicable from the beginning of the second wave of the epidemic. The new bill, although it extends the application of the double bridge right, does not once again provide for the application of this right to self-employed persons who have not had to close a shop, but who have still suffered a major decrease in their income. We regret, therefore, that the independents who, until 1 January, were not covered by the bridge law and who were, however, severely impacted during the second confinement period are again forgotten by the government. This is a question of a significant lack of coverage for two crucial months for some independents, which would have had to be filled to prevent many of them from ending up in an irreversible situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is intended in particular to extend the doubling of the amount of the financial benefit under the temporary bridge law crisis measure in the event of a forced interruption for the month of February 2021. Our group points out that the Committee on the Economy is currently organising hearings on the impact of the covid on self-employed and businesses. During these hearings, we found that, in the first wave of the epidemic, one in two independents had appealed to the bridge law mechanism. While we can only rejoice to see, finally, the reopening of certain contact occupations, we must also have special attention for all sectors still affected at present. The sectors most affected by the crisis are those of horeca and so-called recreational activities. They still do not know when and how they will be able to return to normal professional activity. It is therefore more than necessary to continue to support them through, inter alia, bridge law. However, employers in the cultural sector and in Horeca continue to suffer the consequences of second confinement. It is vital to provide them with oxygen to prevent some from recovering. There is much evidence that, although there is a so-called tacit moratorium on the part of some creditors, such as ONSS and the tax authorities, employers in these sectors are not immune from reporting bankruptcy on the part of many other creditors. Since then, it has certainly been true that the reform of the reorganization procedure is currently being discussed in our Assembly. It will help – we hope – to avoid the bankruptcy of some independents. However, the delay between the adoption of this reform and the end of the moratorium on bankruptcies is too long. In the meantime, there is a risk that many independents and many SMEs will sink without having time to bounce back. For this reason, we continue to advocate the extension or reintroduction of a moratorium on bankruptcies, which expired on 31 January. However, as you will understand, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we will support, as we have done in the work of Kern plus 10, the passage of this bill before our House.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u22	Madam Chair, I would like to thank all the groups who have all supported the bill and this very important measure in committee. Mr Anseeuw, Mrs De Jonge, in fact, we all want to be able to bring perspectives quickly. It is hoped that on 26 February, GEMS will be able to give us a roadmap, as the Prime Minister reminded us this afternoon, which will include specific elements of perspective for the sectors that are still closed today, but also for the social bubbles and other deprivations of freedoms that are still present. Mr Colebunders, the very principle of this law is precisely to allow via royal decree to extend the double right bridge in order not to have this uncertainty before each month and also to give a form of perspective to be able to retain the double right bridge. As I said in committee, the philosophy that guides me and guides the government to this extent is to be able to maintain the double right of access to businesses, self-employed people and SMEs that are now closed. As long as an independent person is closed, he will be entitled to this double right bridge. Then, as soon as it can reopen, it is hoped that as soon as possible, it will always have the opportunity to use the other pillar of the gateway, namely, if it finds a 40% loss of revenue, it will be able to obtain a simple gateway. Mrs Matz, I am pleased to tell you that this type of bridge has been active since 1 January. It has already been used this January for 3,408 people who requested it and were paid. We can see that it is indeed useful and that it will increase in number as it becomes more known. Mrs Vanrobaeys, I share your view. It is true that it is difficult to convey the message. I'm surprised when I feel like I'm communicating a lot. People don't get enough information. For example, I thought everyone understood that hairdressers benefit from the double bridge in February, but I still have many requests today. It is really difficult to get the message across to the people concerned. I remember your idea of launching, at the same time as carry-overs or contribution reductions, the call to pay the contributions. This is an idea that I will ask INASTI to implement via its caisses. Mr De Smet, thank you for your comments. With regard to the moratorium on bankruptcies, you are aware that my colleagues Van Peteghem and Vandenbroucke have announced that the state - ONSS, the tax authorities and INASTI - will maintain a de facto moratorium until the end of March to allow for the vote on the reform of the PRJ and avoid many bankruptcies of independents and businesses that we all fear. Madam President, these are some of the answers I wanted to give.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u23	Minister, I have made a very clear appeal to you and to the government, namely that the Corona approach should no longer focus merely on restrictive measures to reduce the pandemic, but also to finally actively seek ways to give entrepreneurs and all those who want to work in this country the opportunity to do so. I notice that you have been very cautious in your reply. In the end, you dared to say that the government wants to do so effectively. I would therefore like to point out that the key lies in the hands of the government, because it has the power of decision. I therefore hope that you will not only pay lip service to the many self-employed in this country, but that the government's decision will also follow very quickly. You mentioned the GEMS, but in the end it is the government that decides. For the clarity of the debate, I think it is important to point this out so that people do not think that it is no longer the government that decides on it. Your caution will probably have to do with the fact that there is no consensus within the government, but I am confident that you will at least do everything you can to get the noses in the right direction. I count on you, and with me, the many self-employed in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u24	I have made it clear to you, Minister, that we think this is a good proposal. In December, I asked you a question, and now again, and you will answer the questions to which you would like to answer, but the point remains that a person who has just become self-employed cannot submit anything for the first pillar, let alone a doubling of that first pillar. I think twice zero is still zero. I have the impression that a lot of numbers have been thrown here in the hemisphere today, but zero remains zero. This second pillar offers nothing for the large group of people who became independent during the corona crisis, after the lockdown. They can't submit. So they are not entitled to anything either. I think the proposal is very good, and we are following you in it, but you must not forget that group. I hope you'll reconsider that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u25	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u26	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1768/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1768/3) The bill has six articles. The draft law has 6 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u27	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u28	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Kris Verduyckt, Khalil Aouasti, Nathalie Gilson, Cécile Thibaut, Koen Geens, Katja Gabriels, Stefaan Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u29	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. This is not (Rgt 85, 4) (1775/4) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1775/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u30	Madam President, I would have referred to the written report, but I am obliged to make an oral report. I'll try to be as brief as possible given the time. In the context of this resolution, Mr Kris Verduyckt presented the motion for a resolution and Mr Christoph D'Haese tabled amendments. The discussion of the motion for a resolution and the discussion on the amendments took place and was animated. The recitals and the operative part were successively adopted. The motion for a resolution as a whole, as corrected in legislative terms, was adopted by 12 votes with one abstention by a nominative vote. The committee asked the Conference of Presidents to add the motion for a resolution to the agenda of the plenary meeting on 11 February 2021. The committee agreed with an oral report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u31	Thank you very much for your conciseness, Mr. Boukili.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u32	Madam President, I would like to speak on this text of resolution, not because I am opposed to an audit by the Court of Auditors of the Data Protection Authority (ODA), which is of interest to both my group and all Members of Parliament, but because this audit does not address the problem that we have to address in this Parliament at all. First of all, the Court of Auditors has the competence to audit the use of taxpayers' money, the finances of ODA and the monitoring of compliance with all financial rules. On the other hand, it has no competence to comment on the quality of ODA's work and on the protection of the privacy of our citizens. The Court of Auditors is not competent to give an opinion on this. That's the problem! This motion for a resolution therefore ignores the problem we have to address, and does not solve the problem in any way. It only has the merit of delaying parliamentary work which must tackle an important and urgent issue: the protection of the privacy of our citizens and the protection of data processing. This resolution will have no impact on the problem of incompatibility in the head of certain persons who make up the Data Protection Authority, or on the conflict of interest. On the other hand, it is delaying parliamentary work. However, there is an urgent need to address the problem. Especially in times of crisis, privacy is at risk, and the need for a privacy regulator is fundamental. Having a counter-power is very important, especially in times of crisis. If I say that this resolution will only delay parliamentary work, it is because a date is set for the submission of this audit in June. Until then, it is as if we could not make progress on the issue. In addition, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there are other solutions that can address the problem we face. This solution is contained in the law concerning the Data Protection Authority. Article 45 provides for a removal procedure. We are facing a conflict of interest problem and a problem of incompatibility. There are suspicions. Various press articles deal with it. An article on this subject was published today in the newspaper Le Soir and a dossier was presented on the channel LN24. As I have just said, in this regard, we could refer to section 45 of the ODA Act to find a solution. This is a removal procedure in which persons suspected of conflict of interest or incompatibility have the right to defend themselves, to choose who will lead their defence, and to be heard by the competent committee. We will not vote in favour of this resolution. In our view, the only reason for voting would be to delay the process and the work that must be done to resolve this urgent problem. But we do not object to an audit by the Court of Auditors because that remains interesting. In this context, we are missing the problem, which is why, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our group will abstain from this text, while hoping that it will not hinder the parliamentary work to be carried out to resolve this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u33	Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Boukili for his oral report. I do not entirely agree with Mr Boukili, but we do agree that the Data Protection Authority is a very important organisation. In the past year we have had various discussions here about privacy, in function of corona. The Data Protection Authority has an important role to play in this. It is therefore very unfortunate if Parliament receives letters from the Data Protection Authority, which shows that there is a problem there. We held a hearing on this matter in the Committee on Justice, which took up a whole day, with all the directors of the GBA. We have heard a lot of things there, in all possible directions, and I must say that the problem seems very complex to me, which means that we have had to think about how we could take further steps. After all, our parliamentary competence is reasonably limited in this respect. In the end, we have reached the present proposal with some of our colleagues from the majority. In doing so, we are trying to keep interference as limited as possible, as the GBA, as an organisation, is ultimately just watching the functioning of Parliament. That's how we got to the Court of Auditors. Among other things, there is a conflict of interest, but that is not really what the audit is about, and that is not the task of the audit. In addition, Mr Boukili felt that an audit would slow things down, while the intention was to try to objectify things, so that we could then get to work on them. That is why we want the Court of Auditors to be involved. We choose the Court of Auditors because it also has a certain independent status and has worked for Parliament in the past. The Court of Auditors has already carried out a similar investigation into the functioning of the CREG, also an organization that is watching for a great deal of our parliamentary work. The text of the resolution itself is rather concise. The reason for this is that we want to give as little direction as possible. We just want to give the order to the Court of Auditors. Allow me to briefly state what that mission means. We ask the Court of Auditors to consider whether the GBA can work efficiently with the funds allocated to it today, to check the effectiveness of the operation and to evaluate the coordination between the different bodies for which those directors are responsible. The Court of Auditors has a large number of documents at its disposal, including the regulations, the external and internal communication of the GBA, the very large number of documents handed over to the Chamber and the report of the hearing. We also propose that the Court of Auditors conduct interviews of employees or former employees. Given the amount of information, we certainly do not find the date of 1 June excessive to get that audit from the Court of Auditors, with hopefully some recommendations included. That is what will be presented to the Chamber. I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have given some thought to this solution for their input.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u34	Madam President, the idea is not at all to interfere in the operation of ODA. Parliament has this power, since the ODA Act allows Parliament to appeal to section 45 if it suspects a violation of the other sections of the ODA Act, which is the case in this case. There is a suspicion of violation, of incompatibility. I do not say so, but in case of suspicion, a section of the law gives Parliament the opportunity to play its supervisory role. As stipulated in the law, it is the Parliament that controls the Data Protection Authority. Therefore, Parliament can make use of its right to oversee ODA through Article 45, which is the most effective way to shed light on alleged incompatibilities and conflicts of interest. The Court of Auditors does not have jurisdiction at this level. The only way to shed light on this issue is to use section 45. That is why I maintain that this resolution will only delay work that is urgent and necessary for the protection of the privacy of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a difficult matter for the Data Protection Authority. It is generally difficult because we have never needed an independent institution that can ensure the protection of private data. This is a matter of concern to our fellow citizens, indeed. The data protection authority file, which is currently under review, has several components. There is the circumvention of this Authority by a number of government authorities, starting with the federal government, which avoids its control by restricting freedoms by ministerial orders rather than introducing bills. I have already spoken enough about this issue, including this afternoon, during my exchange with the Prime Minister. There is also the Flemish Region which is now systematically taking place in the opinion of the APD, thanks to its own authority, the Vlaamse Toezichtcommissie, which, in my view, poses a serious problem of encroachment of the federal powers and of the Data Protection Authority, encroachment against which, in the absence of a response from the government, our Assembly itself will have to defend the Data Protection Authority, as I had the opportunity to stress in committee. And then there is the question of the internal functioning of this institution. Personally, I do not adhere to the theories that reduce the difficulties of the Data Protection Authority to simple internal chamilleries, as so often seen elsewhere in the world of work. Perhaps there are really incompatibilities of character, but there are, as we all know, potential incompatibilities of functions, especially in the press. I will not mention any names here, but I would like to draw the attention of this House to the damaging nature of these conflicts of interest in terms of credibility and confidence, if attested. We are still in a pandemic that calls for the processing of sensitive data every day, in a context where the population loses its commitment to the authorities. It is in this context that the majority proposes to entrust an audit task to the Court of Auditors. It is true that the Commission has a number of monitoring tasks, including the monitoring of the proper use of public funds in order to inform Parliament of the way in which public services are managed. It can ensure that financial, human and material resources are used optimally. It is, however, not competent to analyse, for example, the regionalisation of the competence of opinions in the field of the protection of personal data, nor the possible legal incompatibilities and conflicts of interest that we have been highlighting for weeks. The Court will not tell us whether the Data Protection Authority is doing its job properly, or whether the conflicts of interest denounced in particular by the press are real. All she will do more than likely is refer the House to her responsibilities - and, colleagues, she will be right. In conclusion, if this motion for a resolution calling for an audit does not eat bread, it does not seem to me to offer a real solution to the crisis facing this institution. If we do not oppose it, it will not have to be seen as a way to save time by a majority who may find themselves uncomfortable in its management of this institution and, more generally, of our personal data. In order to dispel this suspicion, I therefore hope that the other aspects will continue, without delay, to be worked on by Parliament, namely the verification of the alleged conflicts of interest and the defence of the federal prerogatives of this institution that we need more than ever. In any case, our group will take care of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u36	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u37	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u38	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Yoleen Van Camp. The Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (213/3) The Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (213/3) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u39	Madam President, the Committee discussed the proposal for a resolution at its meetings on 27 October 2020 and 26 January 2021. In the introductory statement, Ms Van Camp explained that the present text was submitted in 2019, even before the corona crisis. The caregivers go to extremes during this crisis, but it was already necessary for the crisis to improve their working conditions. In the meantime, Parliament has freed up funds for the care staff. This is a good thing, but these resources must also reach the caregivers in the right way. In many cases, additional resources do not go directly to the care staff, but are distributed throughout the sector. For this reason, the motion for a resolution remains necessary and topical. Moreover, the proposal for a resolution of the N-VA is broader than that of the MR. The difficult working conditions of the care staff are entirely due to the standard of care, in other words too few hands on the bed. The second part of the motion for a resolution concerns home nursing. While the main problem in the institutions is the underbestaffining, Mrs Van Camp said that home nursing is rather underfunded. To Mrs Creemers' question to adapt her proposal to the resolution we adopted here last week, Mrs Van Camp's reply was a firm one, because the proposal No. 1354................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr Rigot agreed that there had been too little investment in the healthcare sector for years. The consequences are clearly felt during the health crisis that the country is going through. However, he would like to stress that the new government has initiated a change of direction and will reinvest in health care. Parliament must, of course, ensure that the measures are implemented quickly and effectively, but there must also be sufficient confidence in the government. Mr Creyelman felt that the health crisis had demonstrated the importance of a well-developed and well-equipped healthcare sector. The various institutions were confronted with the drop-out of care staff, putting even more pressure on the remaining staff. It is clear that the healthcare sector currently has little or no reserve. There's too little inflow and too much outflow. Many nurses even consider looking for another job during this health crisis. This negative trend must be reversed. Therefore, the Flemish interest will support any initiative in favour of the care staff. Mr Creyelman regrets that the other groups do not seem to support the motion for a resolution, since it calls for a little more concrete action than the motion for a resolution No. 1354. The problem raised in the motion for a resolution before us is very close to Mrs Taquin's heart. That is why its group tabled a resolution calling on the government to take a number of concrete measures. Some of the requests in the N-VA Group's proposal were also included in the MR proposal. In addition, Parliament and the previous government have taken a number of historic initiatives to overcome the shortage of staff, which were already mentioned during the discussion of the proposal of Resolution 1354. Mrs Merckx heard at the hearings in the special committee COOVID-19 that urgent action is needed on the ground. The debate is not yet closed, and it is therefore a good thing that Mrs Van Camp puts the issue of the working conditions of the care staff back on the agenda. Mrs Merckx therefore tabled amendments setting out concrete measures to overcome the shortage of staff. Mr de Caluwé thought it was a bit crazy to say that nothing was happening for the care staff. He cites the approval of the MR proposal, the Health Care Staff Fund and the resources released to increase the attractiveness of the profession. Efforts may still need to be made in the future. Mrs Muylle felt that a number of elements, such as the learning ladder and the bestaffining, should be examined in the proposal for a resolution together with the Communities. In any case, there should be a substantive discussion on this issue. Mrs Vanpeborgh shares the concerns of the applicant of the motion for a resolution, but, like other fellow Members, points out that the government has already done a number of things in that context. Mrs Van Camp is pleased that the committee members would like to work constructively for the care staff. However, she does not agree with Members who claim that she wants to move too fast. The Minister of Health has, by wanting to move too quickly and quickly to grant a premium to the care staff, saddled the care staff with higher taxes. If it is necessary to slow down, Mrs Van Camp is certainly prepared to do so. Unfortunately, several Members do not support the passage on the state structure. At the same time, they all indicate that there is a problem with the state structure and that the allocation of powers is not efficient. Mrs Van Camp will hear that there is an intention to initiate the debate on this subject. Reference is also made regularly to the Task Force. If this task force will proceed in the same way as the task force on drug shortages, then Mr Van Camp does not have much confidence in it. She has more confidence in Parliament. It is also Parliament, in particular the PVDA Group and the Flemish Interest Group, that has made money available to the care staff. She doesn't think it's appropriate to put that plume on the government's hat. Finally, Mrs Van Camp states that her group will certainly ensure that the government and the task force place the right emphasis in favour of the healthcare sector. The motion for a resolution is voted down by the majority and now has a second chance in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u40	Colleagues, as announced last week, I am standing here again this week calling for better working conditions for the care staff. I also think that my album is really turned grey, especially at 23 o'clock. With us the nurse has an average of 13 patients under her care, a figure with which we find ourselves in the same regions as Spain and Portugal, not directly countries with which we want to compare. That is twice as many patients as in the Scandinavian countries, where enough hands are put on the bed. The remark that a home nurse receives a few euros more for common operations such as placing a syringe, I am really tired of it. There is only one way to get rid of it, namely by ultimately creating better working conditions. And that's what I'm gonna keep hammering here. The reporter has rightly referred to it, but Parliament has taken some steps with the PVDA and VB initiative to make additional funds available for the sector in the form of, among other things, a premium. This only eases the highest need in these corona times. It's definitely a start, there's no way around that. I regret, however, that the government is not only going to run along with the plumes, but that it is also using this achievement as an excuse for not having to do it anymore. However, the initiative came from Parliament and is intended to alleviate the highest need in corona times. It does not provide a structural improvement in the standard system, on which we have been calling for so long, nor a structural revision of the nomenclature, which we are calling for. I did not put forward my proposal at the beginning of the legislative period because I wanted to give purple-green time to work on it myself. However, we found here last week that the majority came here with a resolution, which was a copy of ours and which, through its own amendments, seriously weakened and undermined it, which we found totally unacceptable. Colleagues of purple-green, this is your chance to set that right and sign up for structural improvements in the remuneration of the care staff and for more hands on the bed. How the hell can one be against that? And yet the text in committee was voted away by purple-green. Today, our group is very happy to give you the opportunity to correct that and to draw the map of the white sector. We have already done so from Parliament. The white sector is counting on us. Today we are counting on the majority of purple-green to regroup and adopt the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u41	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject the motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u42	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Peter Buysrogge, Theo Francken, Michael Freilich. The National Defence Commission proposes to reject this bill. (69/7) The Committee on Defence proposes that the bill be rejected. (69/7) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on the proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u43	Madam President, I will, in accordance with my appointment as rapporteur, report on the second reading of the proposal amending the Act of 28 February 2007 establishing the status of military and candidate military personnel in the active framework of the Armed Forces as regards the political activities and mandates of military personnel. The proposal allows soldiers to participate in the parliamentary elections as candidates, in addition to local and provincial elections. After the proposal was discussed at first reading, starting on 4 December 2019 and continuing in the course of 2020, it was discussed at second reading at the meeting of 20 January 2021. After the first reading, the Committee asked the Legal Affairs and Parliamentary Documentation Service of the Chamber for a legislative note on the articles adopted at first reading. That note was made available to the committee. Afterwards, an opinion was requested from the Council of State. In the introductory statement, the author, Mr Buysrogge of the N-VA Group, referred to the discussion of the legislative proposal at first reading, with both articles being adopted after amendment. The Council of State made two comments in its opinion, which were addressed by several speakers. Mr Guillaume Defossé of Ecolo-Groen confirmed his group's support for the substance of the bill, as it extends the democratic rights of the military. Mr Defossé says, of course, that he is aware of the necessary neutrality of the armed forces. According to Mr Defossé, the opinion of the Council of State rightly points out that the delicate balance between rights and obligations should be better developed in the text. Ms Kattrin Jadin of the MR Group saw in the opinion of the Council of State her group's doubts regarding the legislative proposal confirmed. She says it should be worked out at least further. Mr Steven Creyelman of the Flemish Interest Group points out that the opinion of the Council of State clearly states that it is for the legislator to judge the balance between the necessary neutrality of the armed forces and the political rights of all citizens. As this was adequately dealt with by Amendment No. 2, according to Mr Creyelman, there is no need for further amendment of the bill. Mr Verduyckt of sp.a stated that military forces should be able to enjoy political rights in principle, albeit subject to restrictions, including the right to argue. According to the sp.a., the bill introduces too many freedoms. According to the speaker, the opinion of the Council of State confirms that doubt. Mr Buysrogge of the N-VA Group, the author of the proposal, regretted the attitude of the other political groups, returning to their previous position simply because of the changed political majority. Mr De Vriendt of the Ecolo-Green Group stressed that the position of his group was determined solely by the opinion of the Council of State, not by the amended political majority, an opinion of the Council of State which, according to the speaker, was not taken into account in the text. Finally, Mr Pills of the Open Group agreed that the draft law as it stands could not be adopted in the light of the comments made by the Council of State. Mr Flahaut of the PS Group praised the constructive debate in committee and also referred to the legislative note of the Legal Affairs and Parliamentary Documentation Department of the Chamber, as well as the opinion of the Council of State. The PS Group maintains its position as set out at first reading and will therefore not support the legislative proposal, concludes Mr Flahaut. In the vote, Articles 1 and 2 were subsequently rejected by 9 votes to 5 and therefore the entire legislative proposal was considered rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u44	Madam President, Mrs Ponthier, thank you for the report. In fact, you have only produced a report from the second reading. A report from the first reading would be even more extensive, but I am not concerned that only a report from the second reading will be presented. I'd like to thank you for that. Ladies and gentlemen, during the previous legislature, we worked on political rights for the military before the local elections. At that time, we had many discussions in the committee, which led to the emergence of soldiers for the first time in 2018 and also to their seat on the municipal councils and provincial councils. That was a first step during the previous legislature. Now we are taking a second step, because we believe that soldiers deserve those political rights also for parliamentary elections. Over the past six months, the Committee on Defence has done a very good job of making this possible. Something beautiful was blooming. There was a nice compromise. For the Greens, it was important that these political rights could really be guaranteed. Nevertheless, they asked for an adjustment, namely to allow an exception, not to allow them for a number of executives within the Defense Department. The amendment in question by the Greens was also accepted. The legislative proposal was therefore adopted enthusiastically by a majority of the committee at first reading, at least until just before the final vote. The PS Group then made use, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, of the possibility to ask for a second reading and to ask for a number of opinions, inter alia from the Council of State. Then something happened. A government was formed between the first and second readings. Previously, the Greens and Open Vld were very enthusiastic in their thinking and in their support for the bill. Afterwards, perhaps under pressure from the PS, although I am not sure, it was clear that Open Vld and the greens had to sing a tone lower. They voted off the bill with a misdemeanor. They had found a reason, namely the opinion of the Council of State. What is the Council of State's opinion? It explicitly states that the power of discretion to give the military political rights belongs to the legislator, that is to say, to us. So we can decide. This is then used as an argument to vote against the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to us that this is a fallacy. I can also quote a number of statements made by Members of this House in the past and, if I reread them today, I have to frown the eyebrows. I am not entirely clear whether I can say the chairman of the political groups....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On our list in Ostend there were already two soldiers in 2012. I would regret that their national commitment is being used by old-fashioned regulation." We were just trying to correct that with our bill. Mr Tim Vandenput tweeted last year: "Today, a bill is being discussed to give @BelgiumDefence equal political rights as other citizens. @OpenVld will vote in favour and thus form a majority. Equality is a basic right. room." Happy colleague Alain Top, then sp.a-defension specialist in the opposition, wrote an opinion piece a few years ago. He regretted that Parliament at the time intended to grant political rights only in the context of local elections. For sp.a that had to be expanded. The opinion document is entitled: "Sp.a wants to further extend the political rights of the military." Mr Top also saw games from the then majority. I would also like to quote Mr Top: 'Sp.a. was an advocate to finally give the military who serve our country participation and participation in our policies. For sp.a, the proposal could even go further: the majority" "That's the Swedish majority at the time "blows high off the tower, but withdraws its tail." Colleagues, I'm disappointed. This purple-green majority is full of fine words such as transparency, participation, involvement, new political culture and cooperation. Unfortunately, we have not been able to see too much of this in recent months. The draft law on the military quota was chased by Parliament one week ago. The draft law on the temporary abolition of physical tests was conveniently dealt with by the same parliamentary majority as a legislative proposal in order to be able to work quickly. An amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber to allow the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales to meet in public was voted down. For weeks now, we have been asking questions from individual Members, a question from the chairman of the committee and now a question from the chairman of the Chamber, and we have been calling for access to the C-130 dossier, for the time being still without results. Now, as a blow to the head, the parties suddenly change their voting behaviour between a first and a second reading without much argument. Painful, colleagues, and especially painful for Open Vld and Green. Colleagues, I'd like to make an appeal. A number of parties have demonstrated in this dossier over the last few months that they can change their position smoothly. We saw that: for, against, for, against. Colleagues, prove this again tonight. Prove that you're flexible and vote the rejection away. Don't do it for me or to do the opposition or the N-VA a favor, but do it for the military. Ensure that they too can participate in political decision-making in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u45	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u46	By letter of 2 February 2021, Mr Marc Vanderveken resigned as a member of the Central Supervisory Board as a doctor. By letter of 2 February 2021, Mr Marc Vanderveken shall resign as a member of the Central Supervisory Board of the Prison Office with the status of a doctor. Pursuant to Article 24, § 7, paragraph 3, of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 concerning the Prison Administration and the Legal Status of Prisoners, a member whose term of office ends before the expiry of the five-year term is replaced by his alternate for the remainder of the term of office. Having regard to Article 24, Paragraph 7, paragraph 3, of the Basic Law of 12 January 2005 on the prison system and the legal status of the detainees, the Member whose term of office expires before the expiry of the five-year period for the remainder of the term of office shall be replaced by his alternate. Mr Yves de Locht was appointed as an alternate member of Mr Marc Vanderveken during the plenary session on 28 February 2019. He will complete the term of office of Mr. Marc Vanderveken. Mr Yves de Locht was appointed alternate member of Mr Marc Vanderveken at the plenary session of 28 February 2019. He will complete Mr Marc Vanderveken's mandate. In accordance with Article 24, § 7, paragraph 4, of the same Law, the Chamber must without delay appoint a new alternate member when a replacement seat is vacant. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 24 (7) of the same law, in the event of the opening of an alternate member's seat, the Chamber shall immediately appoint a new alternate member. The House must therefore appoint a new alternate member for Mr Yves de Locht. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new alternate for Mr Yves de Locht Since Yves de Locht is the only French-speaking alternate member as a physician, the Chamber must appoint a new alternate member of the same capacity. Since Mr Yves de Locht is the only French-speaking alternate member with the status of doctor, the Chamber should appoint a new alternate of the same capacity. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 February 2021, I propose that you publish an appeal to candidates for the Belgian Monitor for the appointment of a French-speaking alternate member of the Central Board of Prison Supervision as a doctor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 February 2021, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of French-speaking Deputy Member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisons of Doctors. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u47	By letters of 1 February 2021, Mr. Nicolas Waeyaert and Ms. Séverine Waterbley presented their resignation as a Dutch-speaking member and a French-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. By letters dated 1 February 2021, Mr Nicolas Waeyaert and Ms Séverine Waterbley announced their resignation as a Dutch-speaking and French-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority, respectively. Pursuant to article 41, paragraph 1, of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, in the event of a vacancy in the term of office of the Knowledge Centre for any reason, the Chamber must proceed with its replacement for the remainder of the term of office, namely April 2025. In accordance with Article 41 (1) of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, in the event that a mandate of a member of the Knowledge Centre is open for whatever reason, the Chamber should replace it for the remainder of the term of office, namely until April 2025. Having regard to Article 40 § 1, paragraph 3, and § 2, of the same Law, the Knowledge Centre has as many French-speaking as Dutch-speaking members and not more than two thirds of the members are of the same sex. Having regard to Article 40 (1) and (2) of the same law, the Knowledge Centre comprises as many Dutch-speaking members as French-speaking members and is not more than two thirds of members of the same sex. In view of the resignation of Mr. Nicolas Waeyaert and Ms. Séverine Waterbley, the Knowledge Centre is currently composed, in addition to the Director, of three men and two women. The Chamber must therefore appoint at least one female member. In view of the resignation of Mr Nicolas Waeyaert and Mrs Séverine Waterbley, the Knowledge Centre, alongside the director, is currently composed of three men and two women. The Chamber must therefore appoint at least one female candidate. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 February 2021, I propose that you publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for a term as a French-speaking member and a term as a Dutch-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 February 2021, I propose that candidates for the mandates of the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking Member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority be announced in the Belgian Official Journal. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u48	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill on payment deadlines for contributions due to the National Social Security Office for the first and second quarter of 2021, No. 1773/1 was tabled. The Government requested the urgency statement pursuant to Rule 51 of its Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law on payment deadlines for contributions due to the National Social Security Office for the first and second quarter 2021, No. 1773/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the decision of the Council of Ministers of 22 January 2021, the Minister for Social Affairs requested the application of Article 31 of the Rules of Procedure in his letter of 3 February 2021 when delivering the aforementioned draft law. This urgency statement is based on the fact that it is appropriate to provide employers with the necessary legal certainty as soon as possible regarding their payment periods for contributions to the National Social Security Office and on the possibility of concluding payment plans on contributions for the first and second quarter 2021, without penalties. In the light of this, on behalf of my colleague, Mr Vandenbroucke, I would ask that the draft law be placed on the agenda of the Committee on Social Affairs as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u50	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u51	The government also requested urgency in accordance with section 51 of the Regulations when the bill amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market and amending the Act of 22 April 2019 amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market establishing a capacity compensation mechanism, No. 1779/1. The Government also requested the urgency statement pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market and amending the Act of 22 April 2019 amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market with a view to establishing a capacity compensation mechanism, No. 1779/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u52	Madam President, the Belgian State guarantees the security of electricity supply with this capacity compensation mechanism, particularly with a view to exiting nuclear power between 2022 and 2025. In order to ensure sufficient capacity for our citizens and businesses by the winter of 2025, a first auction should take place in October 2021. Several steps still have to precede this auction, including the determination of the concrete sales parameters which, in turn, can only be submitted for notice to the Council of State after the current bill has been approved. The bill must therefore be dealt with urgently.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u53	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u54	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I also propose that you take into account and refer to the committee responsible: the motion for a resolution condemning arbitrary detentions in "rehabilitation camps" and supporting international and European initiatives to protect Uighurs, No 1789/1. I would also suggest that you consider and send it to the committee responsible: the motion for a resolution on the condemnation of arbitrary detention in'reeducation camps' and the support for international and European initiatives to protect the Uighurs, No. 1789/1. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u55	Mr Van Hees, you are asking for the urgency of the motion for a resolution on the considerable delays and additional costs involved in the renovation of the Mons station, No 1771/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u56	Madam President, we are not asking for urgency about the very construction of the Mons station, because I think it will be difficult to obtain it. But we are asking for the urgency of the extra-cost survey, which has created an important emotion in the population. This is all the more so today because there is a whole debate, and even an opposition, over the closures of windows in many small stations. There is a gap between, on the one hand, the pharaoh work done for what we could call the "Di Rupo station" in Mons and, on the other hand, the quasi-closure of all these small stations – because a window closure actually amounts to a station closure. This has aroused emotion in public opinion. We believe that there is an urgent need to shed light on the various problems which have arisen in the construction of the Mons station, on the causes of the large overrun of the original budget, on the causes of the overrun of budgets and on how the rules of the public procurement have been followed, or poorly followed, in this matter. That is why we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u57	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u58	Mrs Matz, you are asking for the urgency of the bill to criminalize incest as such in the Criminal Code, No. 1778/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u59	Madam President, since the Duhamel and MeTooIncesse cases, as well as since the confinement, according to the associations dealing with the defence of victims, there is a very strong demand for support, support and listening. Victims and associations call for recognition of incest as such, and for the definition of the concept of consent. That is what the text provides for. The idea is to be able to bring this debate to Parliament, without taboo, in a calm way, rather quickly. That does not mean that we have to mess with the discussion of the text. Much fineness and appreciation are needed to discuss this very sensitive and extremely important subject for the victims. We are asking for urgency so that we can start discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u60	Madam President, I would first like to thank Mrs Matz for initiating this discussion through this draft text. On the other hand, there is a plan to reform the Penal Code. We wish to be able to analyse it with the necessary delay and time. It will certainly be appropriate to conduct hearings with a number of lawyers and associations of persons concerned with all these dramatic facts. More generally, we really want this to be part of a discussion on the reform of the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u61	Madam President, I would just like to respond to Mr Laaouej's comments. It was agreed in the Justice Committee that not all aspects of the Criminal Code should necessarily be included in the revision of the Criminal Code, as this would be tantamount to a total muzzling of parliamentarians. I would like to tell you that the draft revision of the Penal Code does not provide for this criminalization. The idea is not to mess things up, I said it with serenity. The request comes from a real demand from the victims in connection with confinement – the number of requests is huge – and with the Duhamel case, which allowed the freedom of speech. I think this is a debate of sufficient importance not to say that we are going to "plan" it in the debate on the Penal Code. It is well known that it has been going on for two or three years, and this may take the same time. I believe that victims cannot wait for the debate on the Criminal Code. In any event, it is imperative that there should still be a parliamentary initiative, as agreed in the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u62	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u63	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 3 February 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 3 February 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 77/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms Leslie Leoni. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 77/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Leslie Leoni. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u64	Madam President, when Prime Minister Alexander De Croo took out of the hands of Secretary of State Thomas Dermine the distribution of European relay money, that promised little good. After all, the Community ghost appeared and the Prime Minister felt called upon to organise the public sale of the EUR 5.9 billion European relay money. Secretary of State Dermine said it should be a balanced agreement, just because no one is satisfied with the deal. As 37% of energy transitions and 20% of digitalisations are needed, it will not be very helpful for our existing economy. Flanders has let itself roll again and has been happy with a dead sparrow, or should I say a dead mouse. Flanders is trapped like a mouse, but with the current mouse plague in Parliament it is not surprising. I can only conclude that the proportion of the population, which consists of 58% of Flemings, was not taken into account, the fact that Flanders is responsible for 80% of exports or the fact that 63 percent of the personal income tax is paid by Flemings. The EUR 2.25 billion that Flanders receives is not at all close to a distribution based on those figures. Jan Jambon was satisfied with it in the Flemish Parliament, as if the mice were dancing in the bacon. We do not agree with that. That is why our motion calls very clearly for a new and decent agreement to be negotiated to ensure a proper reflection of the distribution of the relay money, taking into account the population, the economic contribution, the welfare creation, the export figures and the tax contributions of residents from the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u65	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u66	Yes 86 Yes No. [[28]] No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u67	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 3 February 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 3 February 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 91/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 91/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there has actually been a great deal to do about these bans. We first had the written question from my colleague, Mr Dewulf, which we then looked at in committee to examine the hallucinatory figures. Then Collega Depraetere made it to the press with our figures. Mrs Depraetere, I am pleased that the noses point in the same direction and that we will soon be able to approve this vital motion across party boundaries. At least I hope so, because the figures are really dramatic. We see that home bans as a preventive measure are only applied sporadically in Limburg and Antwerp, although this can be a very effective and even life-saving measure. When we look at the other provinces, we see that in Brussels, Flemish Brabant, West Flanders and East Flanders zero house bans were applied. You heard me right, zero in the last five years. The rules do exist, but they simply do not apply. The public prosecutors say that other measures are being applied, but I have no idea which one. The reply also refers to the fact that the police services do not even know that this preventive measure exists. I would therefore ask everyone here today to think carefully and approve this motion and to intensify that preventive measure. The services need to know that they can use this measure and therefore also do good work. Meanwhile, Minister Van Quickenborne has sent me the numbers for the lockdown. In full covid crisis, we come before Halle-Vilvoorde with six restraining orders. I noticed in the discussion in committee that the Minister is working on it. That's something. So he does not care about the problem, but if we know that one in five women are once victims of partner violence, the use of this preventive measure is still sadly low. With the semi-lockdown in which we are now sitting, and a third wave when the numbers rise or stagnate, the fuse of the aggressive partners will only get shorter. That is why I am tabling this motion to intensify the procedure today and not tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u69	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u70	Yes 89 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u71	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters of 3 February 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 3 February 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 93/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Josy Arens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Franky Demon. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 93/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Josy Arens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Franky Demon. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u72	Madam President, we wanted to professionalize relief services and in 2007 we passed a law to that effect. This professionalization had a cost and it had been decided that the federal government would bear half of it. However, despite the efforts made, notably under the impulse of Joëlle Milquet when she was Minister of the Interior, we remain very far from the 50-50 that was planned. Therefore, it is the local authorities that bear the cost of this professionalization decided by the federal government. It is high time to correct the shot! There is an urgent need for the federal government to meet its commitments. That is the meaning of the motion tabled by my colleague Josy Arens, who has received the support of several members of the committee, including members of the majority. We therefore dare to hope that this motion will be supported by representatives of the majority and, above all, that the government will provide the necessary means to meet its commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u73	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u74	Yes 82 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u75	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u76	Yes 102 Yes No. 23 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 143 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1696/19) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1696/19) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u77	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u78	Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (43/8) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (43/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u79	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u80	Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1225/7) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1225/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u81	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u82	Yes 83 Yes No. [[29]] No Abstentions 30 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1718/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1718/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u83	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u84	Yes 86 Yes No. [[60]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 146 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1708/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1708/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u85	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u86	Yes [[84]] Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 60 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1762/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1762/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u87	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u88	Yes 144 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1768/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1768/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u89	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u90	Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1775/5) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1775/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u91	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u92	Yes 98 Yes Non 47 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 213/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 213/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u93	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u94	Yes 87 Yes Non 54 No. Abstensions 1 Abstentions Total 142 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Therefore, Bill 69/1 is rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 69/1 was therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip088x.u95	We must approve the agenda for the meeting on 25 February 2021. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the meeting of 25 February 2021. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, February 25, 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 25 February 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
