ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u1	Madam President, Minister, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u2	Minister, I also refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u3	Minister, Mr Van Hecke has indicated that he has been held back in another committee, so I will give you the floor immediately for your answer. Perhaps colleagues were not aware of the fact that they had to be physically present today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a good thing that we in this committee can take the time to debate this issue. I also read the article in Knack today. On the facts themselves, I will show the necessary caution for two reasons. Firstly, this is an ongoing case, in which the Antwerp juvenile court delivered a decision on 14 February and against which an appeal was brought by one minor for the time being. That appeal will be dealt with on 4 March. However, the time limit for bringing proceedings is still running, which means that other parties can still appeal. The second reason why I will be reluctant, as far as the facts are concerned, is that Article 433a of the Criminal Code stipulates that the judiciary must be reluctant to communicate on matters involving minors. So I am not coming, and I stress that, in extreme cases, back to the facts and I do not want and will not fall out of my role as Minister of Justice. I do not do that least in the interests of minors. Ladies and gentlemen, you have found that a great many judges in public opinion have talked about this case in recent days. Everyone has the right to do so, but not the Minister of Justice. I'm allowed and I can't. It is essential to stress here that I cannot and should not speak on an individual matter because the trias politician, in particular the independence of the judiciary in an individual case, as provided for in Article 151 of the Constitution, commands me, as Minister of Justice, to refrain from individual and ongoing investigations. There is an appeal that cannot possibly be crossed by the Minister of Justice, a prejudicing minister. I also know the facts neither the suspects nor the context such as the parquet magistraat and the juvenile judge know them. The Minister of Justice is not the appeal body. It will be the Juvenile Appeal Board that will decide whether or not the measures were proportionate. Justice must be able to do its job independently, as it should be. Does this mean that there can and should be no public debate? On the contrary. The public debate is one of the essence of our democracy and the free press must do its job. Law does not take place in a vacuum and justice is not formed in an ivory tower in which only magistrates go, but as Minister of Justice I have to keep away from it. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall therefore confine myself to the timeline and the following elements. The North Police Zone received a call from the radio room on Saturday 13 February at 11:08 p.m., which specifically reported a lockdown party. The police were on the scene at 11:23 p.m. at a house in Kapellen. Seven minors, 14 and 15 years of age respectively, were found. Pz Noord brought the minors around midnight to the Commissariat van Kapellen, where the young people were received in two interrogation rooms. The parents arrived at the scene drove behind the police and could speak to their children. The other minors were given the opportunity to call their parents. The police provided food and drink and provided for the use of sanitary facilities. The interviews with the assistance of a lawyer Salduz IV were prepared by the police, which means, among other things, that the lawyers are contacted to provide assistance in the interrogation. The interviews of the seven minors started on Sunday in the early morning at 01.53 hours and were completed at 05.33 hours. Pz Noord finished the interviews and the minutes, so they could be delivered to the courthouse. The minors were taken by Pz Noord to the Butterfly Palace in Antwerp in two movements from 10.20 a.m., where they were registered at 11.10 a.m. that same Sunday. The District Attorney's Office formalized the juvenile court's claim on Sunday 14 February at 10.40 a.m. Then the young people were arraigned one by one before the juvenile judge, who took interim measures. After that appearance before the juvenile court, the first minor was written out at 1 p.m., or 14 hours after the facts. The last one was written out at 5:20 p.m., 18 hours after the facts. Since there was not a corona safe place for everyone in the youth court waiting area, some of them had to be accommodated by the services of the DAB, the security corps, in transit cells for minors, which are present in the courthouse. The picture shown in a particular newspaper is not the cell in which the young people stayed. Now I come to the questions about the Antwerp Public Prosecutor's Directive and the College of Attorneys General. The policy of the Antwerp parquet on illegal lockdown parties was already developed at the end of October and communicated at the beginning of November. In the judicial district of Antwerp, the real need for clear and strict enforcement was felt in the field. In that arrondissement, in the city itself, but also in the outskirts, more and more police interventions were needed at that time for such illegal celebrations. It even happened that such a party was shut down, but that the police simply had to come back an hour and a half later, as the party had begun again. At that time, the number of corona infections was also rising, the so-called second wave, and the end of the year was awaited with a scared heart. The Antwerp District Court repeatedly communicated through various media channels about its approach, namely that the majority of participants in such parties would be subpoenaed before the police judge and that minors risked arrest and preliminaries in the juvenile court. The local directive of the Antwerp parquet specified the concrete, strenuous conditions that should be available to lead after a lockdown party. In the spirit of this local directive, even after a lockdown party, the lead is the strictest handling and exception. That approach was not called into question at the time, quite the contrary. I even had questions in this committee and in plenary whether the Antwerp approach could not be applied nationally. Effective enforcement of the corona obligations was, after all, a matter of national public health in the interest of the vast majority who did abide by the rules, for which I am grateful. With this approach, the Antwerp parquet was at the forefront. You will also remember the footage on Het Journaal van VRT about the sessions of the police court in Antwerp for adult participants at such parties, only a few weeks after the facts. A few weeks later, so after the parquet of Antwerp, in mid-December last year, the College of Attorney General communicated his modified and stricter COL 6/20. In that COL the stricter approach to illegal parties was given, but at the same time the dots were put on the i for determinations with drones on private domain. On the possibility of pre-emption of minors, the Directive said: "In view of the circumstances, an immediate arrest at the court or juvenile court is not appropriate, except in the event of a very serious and/or repeated threat to public security, for example when a minor continues to ignore a co-training ban or when a minor spits on people or when a minor calls for non-respect of measures." The development of local policy is not illegal, quite the contrary. It is through a local approach, often in good consultation between the local prosecutor and the mayor or mayors of the police area that one can respond to specific local problems. The mayors on this committee will not contradict me. The development of local policy is not exclusively reserved for the enforcement of covid rules. Other phenomena often require a tailor-made approach. I refer to the zonal security plans and the zonal security council, and also to Article 28b, § 1, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which provides that the local prosecutor can determine his priorities. So, Mr Van Hecke, we must be careful to conclude that the local parquet with its own directive would lead to fragmentation of enforcement. It is precisely in order to avoid arbitrariness that Article 151 of the Constitution provides that an individual magistrate is independent in an individual case. This can lead to different decisions of magistrates in similar cases. The independence of jurisdiction is about the independence of a magistrate who takes a decision. However, I agree with several of the questioners that a notified person is worth two. Transparency and communication of policies are therefore essential. In that sense, you will have identified the breach of style, namely a proactive communication policy of the Public Prosecutor's Office, including the College of Attorney General. I'll bet on that. I come now to the application of the directive to this matter. It is clear that a decision of a magistrate in an individual case must always be proportionate and proportionate to the concrete measures taken by the case. The fact that a lead after deprivation of liberty has always remained the exception is illustrated by a few figures. Since mid-March 2020, the Antwerp District Court has received around 3,000 files on minors who in one way or another committed infringements of the covid measures. Specifically with regard to lockdown parties, some 30 minors have been arraigned before the juvenile court since the policy developed in November. Among these were remarkably often facts at Airbnb locations or in hotel rooms, regularly combined with aggravating conditions such as the presence of drugs or nitrous oxide or in the context of the problems of the so-called runaways. On the weekend of 13 to 14 February, the magistrate of the Public Prosecutor's Office took the strictest possible decisions within the framework of the possibilities offered by the directives, namely the immediate removal of liberty with direct preliminaries. As the parquet itself communicated last Tuesday, this policy is constantly evaluated and, if necessary, adjusted. This also happened after a discussion between the prosecutor and the Flemish Commissioner for Children's Rights, who expressed her concerns about this case. My cabinet also had a meeting with her about this. Indeed, the Commissioner for Children's Rights emphasises the International Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Decree of 15 February 2019, the so-called child test. The guidelines for the magistrates were further defined and specified. It was stressed once again that deprivation of liberty with a view to pre-treatment is and must remain the exception. The Antwerp parquet further emphasises that the policy pursued is differentiated and layered. A tailor-made approach is sought. Depending on the infringement, the seriousness and circumstances of the facts, as well as the specific situation of the minor, the action may consist of a warning letter, a reminder of the law, a summons to the court for action, in particular a proposal for the revocation of the criminal proceedings following the execution of conditions, or a positive project, or a claim for the juvenile court in accordance with the Juvenile Law Decree. An action by the juvenile judge may, taking into account, inter alia, the circumstances and seriousness of the facts and personality of the minor, be accompanied by a direct lead before the juvenile judge. All these modes of handling were and are used by the public prosecutor during the current covid period in the handling of the various types of infringement. In addition, the Antwerp parquet works, often in collaboration with partners, on specific projects that fit within this tailor-made approach. At the request of the parquet, a specific ten-hour learning project COVID-19 was developed by the city of Antwerp for recidivists. This consists of two main parts: a group-oriented range of training, focusing on psycho-education and sensitisation, and experience-oriented actions and activities, focusing on recovery to our society. This learning project is presented by the public prosecutor not only to minors who have participated in such parties, but also to minors who have committed multiple covidin infringements, the so-called covididivists. The decision of the parquet magistraat was made on the basis of all the elements provided by the police, on which I do not go any further. I understand the decisions of the magistrate can be harsh. As a father, I can also express that reflex, but I am not answering here today in this committee either as a father or as a citizen. I answer you as Minister of Justice. I understand that the decisions of the magistrate can come across harshly, but that does not mean that the decisions taken, the arrests and the arraignment to the juvenile court have been unlawful. What we are talking about here is the proportionality of the measures taken. On what is proportional and what is not, the Minister cannot express his opinion in an ongoing procedure. Lawfulness, subsidiarity and proportionality are essential concepts, especially when it comes to a measure of freedom of movement or restriction. We then come to an infringement of Article 15 of the Constitution, namely the individual freedom of a person. And that is why this debate is in order. The judiciary, in particular the prosecutor's office, prosecution policy and the punishment of the judge, shall be independent in an individual case. This applies not only to me, but also to the entire government. As far as the prosecutor's office is concerned, it is standardized by means of national directives. A local parquet can, according to specific needs, lay its own accents. It is in the provision of that general criminal policy that the Minister of Justice can and also plays his constitutional role, without interfering in an individual case, let alone an ongoing case, and without criticizing magistrates for being alien, too lax or too strict. Popularism begins where the legislative and executive powers comment on the judiciary. Popularism thrives when those same powers give the people the impression that they can be judge. This is how it is done in an autocracy, in a dictatorship, but fortunately not in a democracy. I decide. Some journalists wrote a bit surprised, and I quote: 'The Minister of Justice continued to support the public prosecutor's office'. Just the opposite should surprise. If a magistrate acts legally, it is obvious that the Minister of Justice does not dispose of that magistrate, because just there lies the defence of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer I shall be reading. I understand your reluctance when it comes to the facts. You are defending the approach of the Antwerp parquet, because the parquet has acted legally, but perhaps this also means that the framework needs to be clearer. This seems to me to be contrary to the letter. I'm not the only one with that opinion. For the sake of clarity, I can also understand the public prosecutor, in the sense that the public prosecutor gets ambiguous signals, including from the policy. We have to wait for the facts and the investigation, but what happened doesn't seem to be okay. There is therefore a practice that is more stringent than the letter prescribed. Apart from the facts, it must be possible to answer the questions in abstracto. Is the prior organisation of a party consistently considered to be a very serious threat to public security, which requires an immediate arraignment? If not, can the Antwerp parquet just deviate from that circular letter? Is it okay that the Antwerp parquet seems stricter than what was stipulated in the circular? Let us not lose sight of this proportionality, not only in Kapellen but elsewhere, not to mention Brussels. More important than the question of whether or not this policy is contrary to the circular is whether or not it has been good. I am counting on you to clarify this and further clarify that framework in the interest of effectiveness, to ensure that people and young people do not say foert against compliance with the corona measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. Because of the separation of powers and because the case is still ongoing, you have not been able to outline the whole of the facts. A picture in the newspaper indeed creates a certain image in a certain atmosphere. I understand the parquet. They must ensure that the corona measures are respected, but there is indeed proportionality. I don't want to be a judge, but for a grown-up, a arraignment can only take place from a year in prison. We're talking about minors here. We do not know the facts in this case, but we must note that we regularly read in the press examples of minors who are fined. I am thinking of minors who stand on the balcony of a barn and who are fined, even though they live together and children who come back from the youth movement and are talking too much to a person for too long. I do not think this is very good for the support of the corona measures in themselves. We look forward to the follow-up to this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u7	Mrs Rohonyi, I saw that there was also a question in this debate. I don't know if you heard the answer. Would you like to reply again?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u8	Yes, absolutely, Madam President. Indeed, the separation of powers is a fundamental principle to which my party is extremely committed, but I would like to stress that your role, Minister, is to establish a framework to ensure that the fundamental rights of litigants can be respected, whether they have contravened rules or not. For the rest, many issues remain ultimately outstanding in this case. But many other cases can be involved, as people feel a completely legitimate fatigue with regard to health rules. The proportionality of health measures and related sanctions is in question. Can non-compliance with the social bubble justify an all-night arrest and detention for minors? Has the Police Function Act been respected? Has the circular of the Attorneys General of 2 February been respected? In particular, the circular states that an immediate presentation to the Public Prosecutor's Office or to the juvenile judge is not in principle appropriate unless there is a serious and/or recurring danger to public safety. In this case, was there any such case? You'll allow me to doubt that. The question of compliance with the Salduz procedure also arises. How long did the arrest last? Did the police use force? Were the minors handcuffed at the time of their arrest? If this is the case, it must be justified by the circumstances; the law on the police function specifies it. Prior to their hearing, were minors deprived of their liberty informed of the facts alleged against them, as well as of their right to silence, their right to consult their lawyer or to be assisted by their lawyer during their hearing? All this remains unanswered and I do indeed expect much from the ongoing investigation. If there has been non-compliance with all these rules and if the adolescents concerned have been detained in inhumane conditions, as has been reported by the press, I believe that this cannot really remain without consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u9	Minister, on Wednesday 27 January I asked the Prime Minister about the escalation of cybercrime. This question was raised at the end of November 2020, which may make the situation somewhat different today. I then asked whether it was true that the police in the weeks before, in consultation with the prosecution, could only in limited cases carry out further investigations after citizens' reports. The Prime Minister referred me to you for that question, and that's why I came here today. At the same time, on the same day, you replied to a question about cybercrime that there is a very great need for additional resources in the police and the prosecutor's office. You also confirmed that these points are included in your policy statement. Is it true, Minister, that in autumn 2020, in consultation with the prosecution, the police were forced to enter into a situation in which only in a limited number of cases they were carrying out further investigations into reports of cybercrime by civilians? If so, what is the situation today? You yourself indicated that the need is high. What is your plan of action on this matter these days? What timing do you use?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u10	At the level of the College of Attorneys-General there are no national directives establishing such agreements between the police and the public prosecutor. The follow-up policy by the King's Attorneys takes into account the individuality and concrete situation in each arrondissement and the available resources and capacity in the police and the police. Every file is different, too. In many research into computer fraud and scams on the Internet, it is often difficult to find clues on which further research can be carried out. I do not know whether you read the interview with Mrs De Bolle, the director of Europol, in De Sunday of 14 February, but it indicates how important international and European cooperation is in the fight against cybercrime. Criminals on the global web do not have any boundaries, while criminal investigations that often still exist do. They are often time-consuming and complex investigations, without guarantee of a successful outcome, namely identified offenders, let alone arrested offenders, which we can successfully prosecute in our country. Cybercrime is also a flag that covers many loads. It is a collective term for fake information technology, computer fraud, hacking and computer sabotage. The crime of computer deception can directly benefit from capital gains. The same is true of the crime of scam with the Internet, which in fact does not belong to cybercrime in the strict sense. A lot of crimes are scams with the Internet as a means, but they're not cyber-crime like hacking. The capacity to investigate and prosecute is closely linked to the available budgets foreseen to combat cybercrime in police and justice. An increase in these budgets is indeed primordial, in order to keep pace with the increase in cybercrime. In view of the increasing digitalisation of society, cybercrime is also taking off, which is reinforced by the many teleworking under COOVID-19. I come to your third question. Today, within a joint working group of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police, the banking sector and the CCB, a national letter is being prepared that will streamline the policy on phishing across the different parquets. The finalisation is expected by June this year. I will give the public prosecutors the opportunity to recruit additional specialised personnel in the fight against cybercrime. This will be addressed in the additional budgets for the Justice Department. At the same time, investment will have to be made in national imaging by federal police forces and the establishment of sustainable structural cooperation with various external partners. The federal judicial police are finalising cyber aid communication via a participatory platform, accessible to all members of the police, which will enable first-line police officers to respond better to complaints. Many complaints are made to the local police and there must be good answers at this level too. As regards prevention, efforts are being made to promote cooperation with the Cybersecurity Centre in Belgium as far as possible. In its DGJ 3.0, the strategic plan of the federal judicial police, provision is made for the recruitment of 125 IT specialists, some of whom will focus on the problems and phenomena in question. Together with my fellow Minister for the Interior, I would also like to provide that capacity for the federal judicial police. Cyber aid will be implemented by the end of the first half of 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which is at least a little more clarifying. I understand that there were no national directives on agreements. You emphasise the importance of international cooperation, which I can only confirm, because cybercrime is largely far away from our own home computer and preferably as far as possible in another country, so that it is very difficult to trace. That is why I will certainly also put a question to your colleague in charge of Foreign Affairs to see whether there might also be more international cooperation. The numbers keep swinging out of control. My own police area told me last week that a new record was set when someone reported lost money. An ordinary, but perhaps not average, citizen reported a scam of EUR 710,000. These are dramatic figures, but for people who lose a small amount, it is sometimes even worse. Lost money can cause a lot of dramas. You say that the increase in the budget is primordial, that is very good, and that the capacity of the federal judicial police must be increased and that you will do so together with the Minister of the Interior. That is only positive, but there is a bit of a hurry if we know how many people are being scammed today. This could cover amounts from a few hundred euros to the hundreds of thousands of euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u12	Mr Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Justice, I would have liked to ask you a question about the Leuven emergency prison. I am getting signals that despite the modifications to the aid prison at the fence between the prison wall and the Nobel Street in the centre of Leuven, a lot of projectiles are still being thrown over. That could be narcotics, stabbing weapons, as well as phones and electronics. Is this true? Do you have any figures on that? Are there any checks carried out by the Leuven police in the streets around the prison? Is there still enough supervision there? Do you have any figures on that? What are the plans? If I understood correctly, the wall was raised, but this would not actually be effective. It is still too low and one simply increases the projectile, so that one can throw further and higher. More and more would be thrown over the wall. Can you explain that? I have also asked written questions about it, and I can see those answers coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u13	Colleague, thank you for your questions. First, in 2020, 21 packages were found during the check on the walk, mostly between the wall and the fence. Secondly, searches on the body have had almost no results, because the loot is already distributed on the walk. In 2020, only four of the drugs could be linked to a prisoner after the return of the walk. A disciplinary procedure has always been initiated in these cases. The disciplinary regime of the detainees is governed by Title 7 of the Basic Law. For example, possession of or trade in prohibited articles or substances constitutes a disciplinary infringement of the first category and may be subject to general and special disciplinary sanctions. Thirdly, in 2020, three court investigations were opened to outsiders who threw objects over the wall of the Leuven prison. This is mainly about the transfer of narcotics. A first judicial investigation into facts of May/June 2020 was concluded and was dealt with last Tuesday before the correctional court. In this file, six suspects were identified, three of whom were arrested and appeared before the court. A second trial is still under way. In this file, two suspects were identified for a dozen facts from July to September 2020. Both suspects were arraigned before the investigating judge and are currently in remand. The third judicial investigation has now been completed. Here two minors were identified and for both the juvenile court was requested. Fourthly, recently the fence of the walk was significantly increased to six meters. A further increase, I am told, is technically very difficult. The solution lies not only in additional infrastructure security, but also in good cooperation with police forces and the courts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u14	Mr Minister, six meters seems high, but for example, a sock with a stone is thrown over it. I understand that it is technically difficult to raise the wall further, but perhaps it is necessary to consider whether there are any alternatives. Because I expect a lot of trouble. You say that 21 packages were intercepted last year, but that undoubtedly means that a multitude of them were thrown over. The chances of getting caught are really not that great. There are two waiting rooms for the guards, but one has been removed, just like that guard room that's close to that wall. Now that that has been removed, supervision is very poor. I also hear there aren't so many patrols left by the local police on the next Nobel Street. Hopefully, the Justice Department will contact the local police to monitor more closely. I also continue to insist on examining possible additional infrastructure adjustments, as this does not lead to much progress. I've even heard it's never been so bad. I will ask you further written questions about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u15	Madam Minister, I had already tabled this question last time, but that was just before the deadline and that gave you very little time to get the matter sorted out. That's why I withdrew them and now I've just retabled them. It concerns the use of beacons in cross-border operations in the investigation of human trafficking and the application to the Mawda case. Furthermore, I refer to my written record.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u16	My dear colleague, you asked three clusters of questions. I'll answer it that way, too. Firstly, the use of a beacon implies a technical observation, whether cross-border or otherwise. Both the technical and the international nature of the observation makes it systematic and should therefore be the subject of an authorisation. An authorisation should be granted by the local or federal BOM magistraat, depending on where the file was located and/or depending on whether there is a supervised or controlled delivery of persons. In the latter case, five conditions must be met. In other words, the comprehensive answer I gave you on the theoretical framework of the monitored and controlled delivery in the committee of 3 February 2021 applies here too. Of course, it is always necessary to take into account which elements are known at what point in a specific dossier and to evaluate them ad hocly. For example, it is perfectly possible that, as part of an investigation into human trafficking, a vehicle may be identified which is not, or is not yet, known for what it will serve and by whom it will be used when and for what purpose. These include, for example, the personal transport of suspects, the use of logistics or the transport of persons residing illegally or not. An observation of such a vehicle is not necessarily a monitored or controlled delivery of persons. If there is any evidence in the file, the observation shall be carried out not only on the basis of a beacon, but in combination with other means, such as, for example, a physical observation dispositive. With regard to the procedure for reporting by the foreign police, I would also refer to the replies from the committee on 3 February. A vehicle equipped with a beacon should not be checked or intercepted when crossing the border. Secondly, systematic observation is, by definition, covert and therefore should not be included in the ANG or SIS. However, it may be considered on a case-by-case basis whether it adds value to the file to link a measure to an entity in the file. This can provide additional information and therefore needs to be assessed separately. Different measures exist both in the ANG and in the SIS. In general, some seek to obtain certain information without disturbing the suspect. Others, in turn, aim to detect or intercept persons, vehicles or objects. There are many variants. The most appropriate measure must always be considered carefully. In addition, additional explanations can always be provided in a comment box so that the police officer implementing the measure knows exactly what needs to be done. Until recently, the consultation of those comments required an additional click for the police officer carrying out the check. Since the end of January 2021, the comment field has been replaced by an annotation, which is easier to consult. Indeed, police forces can always act when criminal offences are noted. Thirdly, in the existing directives and training programmes, the correct use of the tools described is always taught. There is no absolute exclusion of isolated cases where directives are not correctly applied. First of all, it is the individual responsibility of each police officer to deal with this correctly. Any manager who finds that that would not be the case should respond to this. With regard to the problem of trafficking in human beings, there was also an investment in a consultation on the respective components of the federal police, including with a view to improving the flow of research services and first-line services. There are no recent cases known to us that are of a nature to feed your fear. With regard to the general question in fine, as I put in my previous answer, the Royal Decree of 9 April 2003 and a letter from the College of Attorneys-General determine the rules on, inter alia, the supervised delivery and delivery.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u17	Mr Minister, I will read your answer carefully. I have already taken a good look at the framework, because you had already replied. I do not think that the current framework is enough. In terms of definitions and so on, things seem to be missing, so I believe that at least there is still room for improvement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u18	Madam President, Minister, in 2005, Belgium signed the Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture (OPCAT). In the report prepared for the last Universal Periodic Review, which dates back to 2016, Belgium indicated that it was making every effort to ratify OPCAT as soon as possible, but that ratification has not yet taken place. However, a bill to that effect had been passed in July 2018, but had still not been published in the Belgian Monitor. Belgium is also in the process of establishing a national preventive mechanism to monitor all places of deprivation of liberty, in accordance with the Paris Principles and the OPCAT. A coalition of associations was formed around the request for the establishment of this national preventive mechanism. After an analysis of the existing bodies, it concluded that it was imperative to establish such a mechanism to enable us to ratify OPCAT and to ensure external, independent and impartial monitoring of all places of deprivation of liberty. The OPCAT coalition highlights a number of principles, including the importance of making this monitoring mission a specific mission, the need for a single body and a fully independent composition of the political power, executive powers and administrative services that depend on it. In particular, the coalition calls for drawing on the model set up at European level, with a permanent secretariat, experts who are members and paid and associate experts who are compensated for their work. Minister, can we hope for ratification of the OPCAT in this Parliament? What steps are currently being taken by the government in this regard? What are the steps taken to create a national preventive mechanism in Belgium? What would be the status of the latter? What would be the decision-making process leading to its establishment and the appointment of its members? What do you think should include the notion of "place of deprivation of liberty" that is at the heart of this body?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u19	Madam President, dear colleague, the previous government has planned to table the instrument of ratification as soon as all the parliamentary assemblies concerned have given their consent – this is the case today – and the constituent elements of this national preventive mechanism have been determined, which has yet to be achieved. In order to determine this mechanism, the administrations of places of deprivation of liberty, the monitoring bodies, the OPCAT coalition and Amnesty International have recently been consulted. The outcome of this consultation should lead to joint recommendations which will be transmitted to me in the spring, accompanied by various technical elements. I will then be able to enter into political discussions within the federal government and with the federated entities. As soon as the mechanism is determined, the instrument of ratification will be deposited and we will work to implement it in collaboration with the federated entities. My objective is that this instrument of ratification be tabled in this Parliament and that the first elements for the establishment of this mechanism be taken into account. According to the Protocol's requirements, this preventive mechanism should include all places of deprivation of liberty, whether under the authority of federal or federal entities, managed by the public or the private. A discussion will have to take place with my colleagues in the federal government and federated entities on the concept of "place of deprivation of liberty". One element seems important to me: ideally, it should be common to the whole territory. However, you will understand that I am not answering your question more precisely. The speed of implementation of this mechanism is inversely proportional to the importance I attach to this issue. Article 15 of our Constitution guarantees the freedom of the person. It is therefore appropriate that exceptions to this rule should be properly controlled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u20	Minister, thank you for that answer. I am pleased to know that discussions are under way on this national preventive mechanism; this means that very soon we can hope to receive more information on the contours proposed. I am pleased to hear that your objective is to deposit the instrument of ratification OPCAT in this Parliament. I'm glad. I also hear your central interest in the definition of "place of deprivation of liberty". However, I shall return to two points. I have read the recommendations of this OPCAT coalition. Their arguments for a single mechanism, despite our country's federal model, are quite convincing. It is desirable to clearly separate the different missions of the potentially affected agencies (mediation, complaints, monitoring) and to confirm and strengthen them in their respective missions without mixing everything. It also seems to me important, as you stress, that control be carried out in a homogeneous and cross-cutting manner so that coherent lessons can be drawn and conclusions drawn with an overall view of the issues at stake. With regard to the argument of federalism, which I fully understand, according to the figures I have received, there would be no less than 95% of those potentially affected by this control that would, in fact, be under federal control. So it seems to me quite natural that the federal government should have its hands on the matter. The discussions do not seem to me to be an obstacle to a single organization. I will focus on the concept of "place of deprivation of liberty", an important issue in defining the scope of this future mechanism. It is essential that this concept be as inclusive as possible. This concept reminds us of prisons, closed centres, cells in police stations and IPPJs. In my view, it is important to take into account more unexpected places, but they are places that are indeed places of deprivation of liberty in practice, such as, for example, a police car. We know that police violence is committed in vans and not in a cell. Even nursing homes whose residents do not have the codes and therefore cannot get out of their own will can be. Minister, thank you for your interest in this matter. I will remain attentive to his developments. It is crucial for the fundamental rights of the persons concerned who are in situations that are inherently vulnerable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u21	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, I am questioning you on a matter that I raised in Parliament six to eight weeks ago. The Belgian Government's grant to CCIB of Centre collectif contre l'islamophobie and Belgique was then discussed. The CCIB appears to be a subsidiary of CCIF, which was banned in November 2020 or placed on the banned list of Islamic and extremist organisations by the Minister of the Interior in France. I've questioned you about that. You replied to me at the time that the file was not with you, that you were not competent to do so and that I had to question Mrs Schlitz on this matter. I also questioned Mrs Schlitz here in the plenary, which was a very peculiar experience. At one point, she asked the President to shut me up because she did not like what I said. She's a very strange lady, but I'm sure I'll ask her questions, just for that. It was too amusing. It was able to tell me that CCIF had nothing to do with the CCIB, after which I asked myself why they had exactly the same logo in the same colour and font, as well as the same name and objective in their founding act. That's weird. It can be said that something with four legs, hair and a muzzle barking is not a dog. However, there is a good chance that it is a dog. So it was a remarkable answer. I replicated that I predicted her the following. As we saw with Muslim extremistism in the attacks, it drips in Brussels when it rains in Paris. The CCIF, which was banned in France and then made a great deal of fuss and protested, lifted itself two weeks later, which I found suspicious. I was of the opinion that CCIF had something to hide. Now it seems to be relocating in Brussels, as I had predicted at the time. There is a strong link because of the presence of the same Sunni migrant communities in our country in both Flanders, Belgium, Brussels and France. We saw that in the attacks. This link is proven over and over again. There are many exchanges of imams and mosque operations. The Islamic communities are very compatible. So the radical variants and elements in those communities are also active both in France and Belgium. My question, of course, is what now. France prohibits CCIF. Belgium grants the Belgian variant. The French variant is now being re-established under CCIE, not France but Europe. What are we gonna do with that? I would also like to point out that the CCIB's founding document and the Ecolo board still contain a lot of politicians, which, of course, made the matter even more annoying for Mrs Schlitz. You understand. Maybe that's why she was so nervous when I questioned her about that. Are you aware of the establishment? What will your security services do about it? After all, you can understand that many people do not understand and find that disturbing. The fight against Islamism is and must be a priority, including for the current government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u22	Minister, I know a little about this case. You are also quite attentive to what I have seen from your position in this Parliament in recent years. This subject leads us to question you, another former member of the government and Mr Dallemagne, who sat as I did on the Attentats Committee of Inquiry. This is a subject that we collectively consider important. The Collective against Islamophobia in France (CCIF) was dissolved in France by the French government. This Islamist organization served as a sounding board for a number of groups who wanted to act in a way that led to the beheading of Professor Samuel Paty. The French Government, in its decree on the dissolution of the CCIF, stated that the actions of the organization were indirect calls to hatred, or that it justified a number of acts of a terrorist nature. That is to tell you the extent of the problem. A few weeks later, we learn that the CCIF was rebuilding in another form, a Belgian variant, under the name Collective against Islamophobia in Europe (CCIE). This is obviously unacceptable. We already have enough to do with our own garbage disposal organizations, whether they are Islamists, anti-Semitic, racist,... We are not meant to welcome the waste from others. The government does not have the possibility in Belgium to dissolve organizations of this class directly. Perhaps, in your reform of the Penal Code, will you take care to introduce this possibility? Today, it is possible, through the judicial system, to dissolve a number of bodies which can call into question security, public serenity and public order. Minister, will you issue an injunction to the Public Prosecutor's Office to file with the court, to allow the dissolution of this body, which would be useful in other respects. Organizations such as Schild & Vrienden, for example, are as harmful as CCIF. Minister, are you going to bring this matter before the Public Prosecutor's Office? Or at least, are you going to ask our intelligence services to monitor this organization that led to what we know in France? Really, it's an important file. I'm sure he'll meet with your full vigilance. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u23	Madam President, Minister, in the course of my colleagues' interventions, I would like to point out that the French government dissolved the CCIF on December 2, by order-in-council. This CCIF was very discreetly reconstituted in Belgium on 6 January last – it did not make much publicity – under the name "Agir, defend against racism and Islamophobia, CCIE Collective against Islamophobia in Europe". Its headquarters, equally discreet, are located in the centre of Brussels, in a mailbox which offers its services for 135 euros per month. I understand that this company did not want CCIE among its customers. This new ASBL has on its board two former members of the CCIF, not least its president, Jean-Jacques Megaïde, and its secretary and treasurer, Fabien Clément. It promises to fight in particular, by all means provided for by law, for the recognition of the rights of Muslims of French or foreign nationality residing in France or elsewhere. It is a matter of moving to Belgium to continue to do what it did before, and essentially to target a French public, but not only, as it says. The actions of this association were strongly condemned by the French State. In this regard, the dissolution decree, which is insane, should be read again. In particular, the French State stresses that "by calling Islamophobic measures taken with the aim of preventing terrorist actions and preventing or combating acts punishable by law, the CCIF must be regarded as sharing, supporting and contributing to the spread of such ideas, at the risk of inducing in return acts of hatred, violence or discrimination and of creating the soil of violent acts among some of its supporters". It's not nothing! I think it takes the full weight of these words and the whole argumentation of the French government to go so far as to dissolve this association; and to see how dangerous this association is for France and for other countries, through its actions, its behaviour and its speeches. As much as it seems to me to be important to fight against all forms of discrimination and to respect freedom of association and religion, it is important to protect the right of our fellow citizens to live in security, as well as to protect our social cohesion from extremist drifts, including those hidden behind the appearance of causes that despise to be defended. This ASBL intends to pursue strictly the same objectives, according to the same methods it had in France. It seems to me and to my colleagues to be totally unacceptable. I'd like to ask you a few questions. How did the French government react to this relocation? Did he contact you? Have you been informed? Did he ask you to take action on this association? I imagine that the French Government is concerned that a form of nose foot is addressed to it by this association, and consequently, in a way, by the Belgian authorities, if they do nothing. What have you undertaken since you were informed of this relocation? Have you taken any surveillance or dissolution measures in order to prevent the occurrence in Belgium of events similar to those that took place in France? What legal tools do you have? Do you think these tools are sufficient? As long as we are there, are there any other BLSOs in Belgium that can potentially ask about radicalism?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u24	My colleague, your questions show that there is some concern about the creation of the CCIE-ASBL in Belgium. I can tell you that I fully understand your concern. At the same time, however, we must respect the rules of the rule of law, fundamental rights and freedoms, such as freedom of association. As Minister of Justice, I will respect them. I note, moreover, that in the name of these same constitutional freedoms and rights, a Member of this assembly went to France last weekend to argue against the possible dissolution of another organization, Génération identitaire. By the way, I wonder what the authors of this planned dissolution think. I have said several times in recent weeks that Belgian law and the Constitution do not allow groups to be excluded from the law. You know that by now. I refer to new legislative proposals to extend, among other things, the law on private militias in this area. Interesting. We'll look into it. But you know that such proposals did not achieve the desired result in 2012. Will our country remain passive? Of course not. What the Belgian Justice does is prosecute the individual members of such organisations if there is reason to do so. I refer, among other things, to the approach in our country of Sharia4Belgium. That movement has not been dissolved, but 30 members have been convicted. I also refer to another organization, Blood, Soil, Honor and Faith. That organization has not been dissolved, but the individual members have been convicted. The intelligence and security services of our country, including the Security of the State, are therefore doing their job. The security of the State has already informed me of the following in this file. This non-profit association was founded on 1 November 2020 and the statutes were published in the annexes of the Belgian Official Journal on 13 January this year, i.e. last month. Although there are indeed links between this organisation and CCIF, which has been dissolved in France, this non-profit association has not yet carried out any concrete activities according to State Security. The Security of the State will pay due attention to this non-profit organisation in the future if it actually carries out activities in our country, and Justice will take appropriate action if necessary. Mr Ducrame, I know the precise legislation to which you refer. It is the responsibility of the services to carry out their work. In case, it is up to the Public Prosecutor's Office to decide whether an investigation should be conducted and, if so, whether it should lead to a dissolution, as you mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u25	Mr Vice Prime Minister, you say that we cannot dissolve this because there are no legal instruments available. Parliament will therefore have to decide on this. Mr Ducarme will present an extension of the current legislative proposal. I assume this will be discussed here or in the Committee on the Interior. We'll be able to determine our position in the file. It is certainly good that the security of the state is alert and succeeds well. I hope that they will continue to do so. In fact, I hope that the CCIB's drivers will also be closely monitored. They do exactly the same and have exactly the same objectives as CCIE or CCIF. That's all one pot of wet. I hope you will ask your services to keep an eye on the CCIB as well. That can be very enlightening, especially if people know that Ecolo politicians are active there. I hope that this party's participation in the government is not a reason not to. However, I cannot imagine that our security services would deal with this political politician. I hope that the whole thing will be closely monitored and that activities that smell like Islamism or support for the Muslim Brotherhood will take place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answer. Like you, as a liberal, I am obviously extremely attentive to respect for freedom of association. It is one of the fundamental freedoms in our country. It is so so that it led us in 2012 not to dare dissolve Sharia4Belgium. That's what happened. Since 2012, the case is still pending as to whether the government remains dependent on the judiciary to dissolve certain harmful, dangerous, Islamist, anti-Semitic and racist organizations. With colleagues, you will allow us to discuss this and perhaps push for an analysis of the bill that would amend the 1934 Private Militia Act and give the government the opportunity to dissolve these associations. I hope that in this context we could have your support, Minister. I would, of course, point out one element of your answer. You tell us that "the intelligence services, the State Security, are vigilant with regard to this organization". It's fundamental. There is one point on which I also want to draw attention: perhaps we need more communication with France on this subject. Mr Dallemagne asked if there had been any contacts, any exchanges of information? For my part, I wrote to the French Minister of the Interior, Mr Darmanin, and I asked him to be able to meet with his services in order to be even more informed about the nature of this association. I will invite all Members who wish to join me naturally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u27	Minister, indeed, I have not heard you on this part of my question. I do not know if this is an oversight or if you prefer not to talk about it, but you have not answered about the contacts between France and Belgium and the warnings that might have come from France. In this respect, I would like to say with some seriousness that I have not forgotten, we have not forgotten, as neither of us nor you do I know, that the terrorists who struck France on 13 November came from Belgium. They were organized from Belgium. They had created a network from Belgium. They were radicalised from Belgium. This creates a particular responsibility for our country, not least in terms of France, but also in terms of European coordination and cohesion in relation to the radical Islamist threat. I think you should never forget it. In this case, it would seem quite incredible and even shocking to see that Belgium does not take this issue with all the necessary seriousness in relation to a country that has been hit in such a way and through such channels. I think that this aspect should not be forgotten in the reaction that Belgium must have. I understand that it is difficult to dissolve an association that has not done anything today. The question still needs to be asked in the future of associations moving to Europe, from one capital to another, from one country to another, and what possible coordination can be achieved in this area, such as the ban on such associations from one country to another. But I think it will indeed be necessary to come back with proposals on their dissolution. We know how complicated it is. It is known how the constitutional agreement and the Council of State had rejected parliamentary initiatives in 2012. I had participated in the debates at that time. I have tabled a proposal under this legislative term to better punish, more quickly, persons who belong to such associations and who violate such basic principles as discrimination and segregation. I am thinking in particular of the Islam party, which was formed a few years ago and which proposed segregation in public transport. In any case, the various proposals that are on the table or could come to the table quickly will need to be discussed quickly. I am happy to respond to my colleague's invitation to go to France or to have contact with the French authorities to examine the possibility of better coordination on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u28	Mrs Zanchetta is not yet here. Mr Van Hecke has indicated that his question No. 5514231C may be postponed to next week. Mr Segers, Mrs De Wit is still in another committee, but you may already ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u29	Madam President, Minister, today, 24 February 2021, it is exactly 100 years since the 1921 drug law came into force. The coalition agreement is very ambitious in the fight against drugs. The policy is based on two clearly defined pillars. On the one hand, the focus is on prevention, harm reduction and assistance. On the other hand, the fight against organised drug crime will also be stepped up. The achievement of this ambition will not, of course, be automatic. The 100th anniversary of this law could be a good reason for a thorough assessment of the drug law and for effective implementation of that ambition. Such an evaluation may list these pain points and examine any slopes of decriminalisation. Especially with regard to cannabis, many proposals are made by experts, who differ from the current model. You know that since the beginning of this century there has been a special regime for cannabis that has created a great deal of uncertainty. The circular of 25 January 2005 plays an important role, but is binding only on the court, not on judges. Of course, individuals cannot obtain rights from the letter. As a result, practice often depends on the district in which a user is located. This leads to legal uncertainty. In particular, it could be examined whether it would be desirable to have a legal basis for harm reduction or for initiatives such as pill testing and user rooms, in order to achieve certain good practices that already exist in the grey zone. For the sake of clarity, it is essential for me that health indicators guide this, in particular the impact on the reduction of problematic drug use. That's all that matters. This is to implement the government agreement on prevention, harm reduction and aid. What are your further plans within this last pillar? Just so we're clear, I'm aware of your plans regarding drug treatment rooms and drug follow-up rooms. So I am talking about the other plans within the same pillar. In what way do you think it would be most useful to work with this? I myself was thinking of the model of a working group of experts who could assist you and return you to the Justice Commission. I can't wait to see how you're looking at this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u30	Madam President, Mr Segers, 100 years after the 1921 law, drugs are still a matter for us, even more so than ever before. Today I take responsibility for this complex issue as Minister of Justice within the lines of the coalition agreement. I can confirm that the Justice Department is taking responsibility. In the first instance, the supply side is considered. These are criminals, smugglers, wholesalers, exhalers and dealers who make huge amounts of money on the hood of our public health. Europol's reports leave no doubt that organised drug crime is the criminal sector where the most criminal money is concerned. It is an illusion to think that we can solve the problem of drugs, but we must do our utmost to control it. Only in this way can we reduce the violence and nuisance and guarantee the viability of the affected neighbourhoods. Moreover, we cannot accept that this crime is buying into the legal economic superstructure and adapting our regular social fabric. Through the Streamplan XXL we hunt not only the contraband, but also the smuggler. The results of customs, justice and police are remarkable. Criminal networks are being rolled up. Port workers, ship owners, customs officers and police officers or ex-police officers are not spared either. We try to identify and reduce criminal capabilities through the so-called profit-oriented investigation, which is strengthened, initially by providing additional people and resources, not least for FGP Antwerp. At the end of last year, in December, the FGP launched a major recruitment campaign, declaring 325 places for the judicial pillar vacant, including 277 operational, including 35 specialised chief inspectors and 48 CALog people. At the beginning of this year another 125 places were added, bringing the total to 450 places, 120 of which are intended for the FGP of Antwerp. You will not hear me claim that these people were recruited from today to tomorrow, but the intentions are clear. In the meantime, the judicial side has also been strengthened. Funds were made available for the immediate reinforcement of the public prosecutors' offices and offices by lawyers and administrative support staff, 60 people in total, especially for the Antwerp justice system. Of those 60 people, almost 50 were recruited and employed today. We are taking a completely different approach when it comes to the demand side. In it, the Justice Department can show its human side through projects on problem drug users, with particular reference to the best practices of the drug treatment room or the drug follow-up room. The drug treatment room and the drug follow-up room are success stories that make it go away again. We generalise their operation by creating such a chamber within all the courts of first instance, as it already exists in Ghent and Antwerp. The effect of these chambers on relapse has already been demonstrated and is significant. The risk of recurrence is reduced by almost 20%. Positive results are also being achieved in other areas such as the labour market, the referral to assistance and financial support. Furthermore, we naturally subscribe to the necessary multidisciplinary approach to this layered and complex social problem. You also had a question about the expert group. On the basis of the cooperation agreement of 2 September 2002, a General Unit on Drugs Policy was established. The Council of Ministers of 5 February 2020 established the federal representation in this cell for the current term of office, on a proposal from the colleague of Health. Of course, the Justice Department is taking part in this. It is in this context that the necessary policy proposals can be made at multidisciplinary level. Finally, I would like to thank the people of Smart on Drugs for continuing to raise this issue. It is important that there can be a public debate, based on scientific insights, evidence-based as it is called. This can only be of benefit to policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. My Bible is for clarity that of the health indicators. For the rest, I have an open mind and I think we should be able to think about everything, as long as health improves. I had read your communication that the government will take measures to ensure that criminal organisations are effectively dealt with in the field of drugs by means of a repressive approach and a predatory investigation. I also know about the campaign at the FGP Antwerp. That is all great, but the government agreement also talks about the focus on prevention, harm reduction and aid. This also requires approximation of legislation and policies. Hence my questions to you. I will certainly take initiatives in this area from Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u32	I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u33	Mr Segers, on your first question, I can say the following. We have recently sat together with all the actors involved in the police and the public prosecutor's office in Bruges to find out what the expectations are and where they believe there are improvements. In summary, there is a need for more information exchange, more coordination and coordination, including between the administrative and judicial components, but also within the judicial pillar. We are not talking about international cooperation. The solution to this problem is not at national level, so in achieving results we will have to remain modest, but not less ambitious. At the moment, my administration is preparing the new national action plan on the fight against trafficking in human beings. To this end, the relevant actors, including the members of the Office of the Interdepartmental Coordination Cell for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings and Trafficking in Human Beings, the so-called ICC, are questioned. Myria is also a member of the Bureau and of the Coordination Cell. Thus, these recommendations were also discussed in the context of the work of the Action Plan. A proposal from the Action Plan will be submitted to the Coordination Cell at the end of March. I do not want to put the horse behind the cart by explaining a number of action points. This is not yet final and needs to be looked at with other partners. For your second question, I refer to the reply of the Minister for the Interior to your written question 203. It indicates that de facto each FGP unit has a cell of human trafficking and smuggling, whose size, capacity and employability depend on criteria such as total capacity, available expertise, how the phenomenon manifests itself in the district, absenteeism and lateral support to other departments. Within each FGP unit there is a director of operations who, in consultation with the Magistrate Department, will develop a detective management that will be steered with the given capacity. This way of working allows for a smooth response to the needs in an adequate way. This method can also be used in the future. In the context of inter-mobility, 450 posts were opened at the end of last year at the judicial pillar in the hope of overcoming the deficits in the FGPs. I come to your third question. In general, I am confident in the specialization of reference magistrates trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings at the public prosecutors' offices. This does not mean that there is no need for training and guidance. In this context, I can refer to the COL 01/2015 on the investigation and prosecution policy on trafficking in human beings. A reference street for trafficking in human beings shall be appointed within each judicial district. They should organise two to three coordination meetings with the police forces involved in the fight against trafficking in human beings. This meeting will discuss the state of play in the field and provide instructions for dealing with this phenomenon. The letter contains clear guidelines on the detection and prosecution of the magistrate and a specific chapter on the victim's interests. The principle of non-sanction of victims of trafficking in human beings is also clarified. The COL 01/2015 recalls the main instructions on the orientation of victims of trafficking in human beings and smuggling in the Ministerial Letter of 23 December 2016 on the protection of victims. This COL also has a number of annexes describing the indicators for trafficking in human beings and a survey scheme which serves as a guide to initial findings and aims to improve detection and investigation. In addition, more attention is paid to certain aspects of the procedure, such as the property investigation and the importance of taking into account, in the first stage of the investigation, possible compensation of the victim through measures such as seizure and confiscation. As far as training is concerned, reference can be made to the training of Trafficking and Trafficking in Human Beings. This month an education was organized. In addition, specialised training courses are organised for the reference magistrates in trafficking in human beings, either by the IGO Institute of Judicial Training, in collaboration with the expertise network or by the expertise network itself. For example, a plenary session is organised every two years with the FPS Justice and the Expertise Network, in which different themes can be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u34	Madam President, Minister, I would like to thank you for your commitment and for the clarifications that will be made in the context of the letter. I fully understand that the recommendations must now be discussed within the interdepartmental cell. With regard specifically to the capacity of the FGP, I did indeed receive the answer from Minister Verlinden to the written question. However, I still have questions because in 2019 several people made the alarm, including federal magistrate Ann Lukowiak. She said that teams that used to work with ten now only work with four. This morning I was present at the hearing following Myria's annual report, where it was also said that certain people at FGP who specialized in the field of false documents have now moved to terrorism and that this has never been compensated. Also, some departments of the FGP would have problems with motivation due to a lack of support from the police top and a lot of experience is lost by transfers to other units and is not compensated. Let me ask you a few questions about that aspect. The only thing I'm trying to do there is to objectify, but that's not easy. I hope you will be able to check whether this is really as good as it is said.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u35	Debates of the European Parliament 55014442C and Question No 55014443C by Mrs Rohonyi were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Pivin's 55014469C was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gabriels' 55014474 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u36	Minister, I refer to the written record of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u37	Madam President, your question concerns the amendment of the law which will enter into force on 1 March. As the implementation of this legislative amendment will have an important impact on both port costs and personnel costs, it is important that the notification can be made electronically. The J-box is an opportunity for notification to lawyers and thus indirectly to the parties represented by a lawyer. However, shipping via the J-box cannot be an option to notify those seeking legal redress without a lawyer, as the J-box is understood as a closed and secure mail system between legal professionals, to which citizens will never gain access a priori. For this target group, therefore, provision was made for this notification to be made to the last known e-mail address of these persons. In a first intermediate phase, the actual decision will be sent as an attachment to this mail. At a later stage, the annex will disappear and a link will be provided through which the decision can be consulted on the Justonweb portal. The developments in this area are in full swing and will probably be ready by the end of the judicial leave. Then I come to your second question. The amended wording of Article 792 of the Civil Code is quite broad. The Registrys may, in my opinion, restrict their own additional workload and the additional port costs for the FPS Justice by systematically and proactively asking the parties in a case at which e-mail address they can be reached. If the Registrys have such an e-mail address, they may also use it a priori for such notifications. Then I come to the budgetary impact. The explanatory memorandum to the Law of 2018 does not show that such an impact analysis would have been made. Therefore, we do not have relevant figures concerning the number of decisions and associated port charges to be notified in accordance with Article 792 of the Code. The problem of additional workload and postage costs is mainly, if not exclusively, at the level of the Registrys at the criminal courts, which did not apply Article 792 of the Civil Code. However, as stated above, the new Article 792 can largely remedy this situation if these Registrys systematically and proactively request the e-mail address of the various parties. There were already pilot projects which successfully applied this method before the legislative amendment, in particular the Court of First Instance in West Flanders. Bruges, Ypres, Kortrijk and Veurne already did it this way. Then I come to your fourth question. Where Article 792 (1) of the Civil Code, as it will be introduced by Article 32 of the 2018 Law, refers to the judgment of the judgment, it shall be understood in the broad sense. This includes any judicial decision, including judgments, orders and warrants. This general notion was introduced and thus clarified following the opinion of the Council of State. However, it follows from many other provisions that Article 792 of the Civil Code does not apply to it. For example, there is a specific regime under Article 22 of the Law of 15 June 1935 on the use of languages in court cases. I also refer to Article 58 of the External Law Act or the 2006 Law on the external legal status of the sentenced persons to a custodial sentence. Then your last question. The prosecution is indeed also a party to the case. At present, there are many possibilities, ranging from a paper copy to an e-mail to the general address of the relevant public prosecutor. However, our services are currently working intensively on the development of a digital criminal record, which will include every decision in a file. As a result, the public prosecutor will always be able to consult this decision digitally, just like the lawyers and the seekers without a lawyer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u38	Madam President, I apologize for the delay. I was held back in the Commission for Persecutions. Mr. Secretary, in Merksplas prison, five guards were wounded by an interned person who had very serious psychological problems. He also had an extensive history of aggression. In the press, by the way, we could read that he had been transferred from an FPC to prison. Both for the prison board and for the penitentiary staff, the size is now gradually full. They think that people with such a serious psychological problem simply do not belong in prison. That is an analysis that has rightly been made on a number of occasions. Action is requested from your cabinet and you have already communicated that EUR 150 million will be released for conflict management in prisons. This money could be spent, among other things, on courses and additional care staff. However, I have a few more questions for you. Mr. Secretary, have all staff recovered from their injuries? Are they all able to work back? Is it true that the interneer was actually in an FPC but was still transferred to prison? What reason did that happen? Finally, some time ago, a department of high security was closed. There were some reasons for that, but the idea of such a department doesn't seem to be useless. Until 2019 there were the unruly and dangerous prisoners. Was it appropriate to save on that if we now see the dangers facing the guards? Does it not make sense to provide another alternative to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u39	I read in your question that we will release EUR 125 million for conflict management. That is part of the EUR 125 million, just to be clear. I never said we would release EUR 125 million. The five penitentiary security assistants suffered injuries and were referred to the emergency department. One member of staff returned to work day after the facts. The four others are still temporarily disabled at the moment. The person concerned was indeed transferred from a forensic psychiatric center to prison, following a serious aggression incident. The section of individual special security regimes as it existed was never intended for the detention of interned persons and would therefore not have been an appropriate response to this incident. Moreover, the section was not closed for reasons of saving. In addition to the fact that our staff obviously need to be able to be better trained to deal with aggression incidents, such incidents should be dealt with from an enhanced care approach, especially when they occur with interned or inmates with psychiatric problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u40	I would like to hear you say that a department of increased security was never meant for the detention of interned people, just as a prison is never meant to lock up interned people. That has happened here, with all the consequences of that. The penitentiary officials have not been trained to deal with people with such a psychological problem, which is therefore a very aggressive problem. That's too bad. You are right, however, that this needs to be addressed from the point of view of increased care and that this must certainly be addressed. A very specific approach is still appropriate, whether it is for a prisoner or an interned person, both of whom are deprived of their freedom, and who have a serious problem of aggression. This approach must be differentiated within the prison system or within the centres. Where exactly doesn't matter, but there has to be a specific approach or things will go wrong. Our penitentiary officials already have enough on their sandwiches without this aspect. We must still consider how we can deal with it better in the future. This enhanced care should also be able to obtain a certain location.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u41	Madam President, Minister, today we see an amalgamation of measures to maintain quarantine, and that is not evident, apparently not for airport staff either. The rules in force today appear to be insufficiently known and not sufficiently shared internally by airport staff. The pilot and crew of an aircraft do not have to be quarantined when they return to Belgium and do not need to be tested, which is not illogical in itself, because if they have to do so every time, it will be impossible for them to do their job. However, it appears that pilots and crew members end up on quarantine lists every day after an international flight has been carried out, with the result that they are contacted and traced. People from the contact investigation call them, which is not a reproach, because they do their job, but pilots and crew members are called repeatedly or even get control at the door. If they have to quarantine, it's problematic for their job. It has recently been announced that effective fines will also be imposed from 1 April onwards, so there is a great deal of concern for that profession, as it will not be limited to repeated unnecessary calls from the contact tracing or any quarantine, but also because there can be a peppered bill. I don't think that's the intention. Minister, are you aware of this problem? Are we working on a solution? Where do you stand with the development of a solution for fine-making violations of quarantine isolation obligations? In reply to previous questions about this, you always said that you were working on it. Maybe now you can light up a little bit of the veil?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u42	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, in reply to your first question, allow me to say that I find it somewhat strange that you continue to ask me questions about testing and tracing, a competence whose organisation and implementation is mainly at Flemish level. Perhaps you'd like to unitate all that back?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u43	Minister, the penalties announced do fall within your competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u44	No. Madam President, will you allow me to reply? I believe that there will be an opportunity to reply afterwards. Mrs De Wit, you are asking me about testing and tracing of aviation personnel, which is actually a question for the Flemish Parliament, but you are asking this question here in the Federal Parliament, so I ask you to unitate it back. After all, I had to request the answer from the Flemish services, not from the federal services. I am kind enough to give you the answer, even though that actually belongs to the Flemish Parliament, but as a first step I will give you the answer in the Belgian Chamber of Representatives. The problem to which you refer is indeed well known, the Flemish services tell me. These people are exempt from quarantine and testing and do not have to submit a negative test result of less than 72 hours, but they are currently required to fill in a PLF. As a result, they often receive a text message to enter quarantine and an activation code to be tested. According to the Flemish services, the system does not see that it is an aircraft crew. It is therefore not known that they are covered by the exceptions. The solution lies therefore in the completion of the PLF. It is being examined whether the obligation to fill in a PLF may be removed for certain groups such as transport providers. This will need to be anchored and specified, where appropriate, so that no text messages for quarantine or activation codes for testing are sent. For the sake of clarity, infected persons, the so-called index cases, must go into isolation regardless of their profession. There is no exception for insulation, even for aircraft crews. So far the answers to your first questions about testing and tracing, not about enforcement. Your second question is a valid one, which you can certainly ask. We're moving on steadily. There have been several intense meetings over the past few weeks. On Friday, there is an important Consultative Committee where this is explicitly mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u45	Minister, I have never doubted that testing and tracing is a Flemish competence. The point is that there is a threat of a fine, because the system does not communicate enough about who it is. If a pilot is not in quarantine, while the system determines that it should, he runs the risk of being fined. That enforcement is with you, that's why I'm coming to you with that question. I hear you are continuing to work steadily, but in the meantime the enforcement problems are building up. I have already explained on several occasions how difficult it is to follow the quarantine at local level, let alone call on the police, because we often do not know why they are quarantined, because the system does not say so. Continue to work, I do not know what that means and what the concrete result will be. I hope that gradually also means at a certain pace, because at this rate it remains an empty box and that is what many people are getting even more down. It is already a daily struggle to maintain that support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u46	Mr. Secretary, as long as assists aren't abolished, a jury is needed. Every four years, in my capacity as mayor, like all mayors, I have the pleasure of getting a draw in January. We shall be assisted in this by the ships. Recently that was the case and there was a draw for the composition of lists of sworn ones. Two figures are drawn for the draw, and for those two figures the lists of the previous elections look at them. People whose National Register ends on those last two digits are all included on the list. Of course, it doesn't stop there, because that's a long list. At that moment, my work was done and my draw was done. Our services must work with this and take everyone out of the list who is not 25 years old or over 65 years old. People who have died since the electoral lists were drawn up should also be removed. Municipal council members and magistrates should also be removed from the list. A number of categories must therefore be filtered out of the list. People with convictions and therefore with criminal records should also be removed from the list. There is a circular dated 2021, which expressly states that persons sentenced to prison or electronic supervision for more than four months or for more than 60 hours or for an autonomous trial of more than one year shall not be allowed to sit in an assistant jury. Minister, our services must verify all this through the criminal record, which was never a problem before. However, now that we have a central criminal record, that is a problem. After all, the criminal record contains only the very recent convictions. The extracts received by the municipal services do not contain all the information needed, making it almost impossible to filter. Are you aware of the problem? Do you have any idea what solution can be offered for this? When can this solution be rolled out? We are now faced with a practical issue, namely that we cannot complete our lists without that information. So now there are still people on the lists that according to your own debrief are not allowed to sit on that jury.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u47	Colleague, my department, and in particular the Central Criminal Register Service, is well aware of the situation. According to the circular of 22 December 2017, the municipalities are required to provide the Central Criminal Register Department with the list of persons selected for the composition of a jury for the Court of Assists. We are currently developing an information tool to enable us to deal with the questions in a more automated manner, in particular by means of a targeted search based on the criteria provided for in the Code of Justice in order to qualify as sworn persons. The result of the search will be delivered to the municipalities. We have a deadline for this until the end of March 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u48	Minister, I am glad that a solution is already being sought. In the answers we first received, we were told that we could forward the lists, but that it could take a long time before everything was verified. In another answer we just got back the question why all the municipalities suddenly started asking the same questions. So they weren't really aware of that at all. I hope that it will be resolved now and that at the end of March there will indeed be a solution so that the lists can be completed and we can complete our part of our task.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u49	Yes, Minister, it is! There is a great deal of movement in the fight against fraud, as it turned out yesterday in the Finance Committee, but there is still a very specific point. Your colleague, the Minister of Finance, has expressed the intention to adapt the Charter of the Taxpayer. In 1986, a long time ago, the then Finance Minister, the Liberal Jean Gol, put an end to cooperation between tax inspectors and police detectives. He did, because at that time apparently there was a considerable risk of intimidation. The officials were accompanied by police officers; occasionally the handcuffs were lifted; in short, citizens were sometimes intimidated and wanted to get rid of them. The then liberal trophy is now 35 years old, but now the current finance minister wants to reverse the situation and in fact return to the former situation in order to step up the fight against tax fraud. In doing so, the charter is seen rather as an obstacle. Cooperation between the two departments must be resumed. Minister, what is your position on the plan to achieve far-reaching cooperation between the Finance and Justice services? Has there been any consultation between the two Cabinets? Is there any agreement in principle in the government to do this? What changes to the charter are on the table? Are you not concerned about any new derailments that the reform may entail? Or are you reassured that such a thing will not happen again? Assuming that you have that fear, what measures can be taken to minimise the risk of derailment or abuse?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u50	Mrs De Wit, you ask what my position is. I take the fight against financial, fiscal and social fraud seriously. It is therefore my intention to ensure that this fight can be fought properly. The fight against this type of crime requires a coordinated approach and cooperation. That is not always possible today. It is therefore also important for the government to consider possible initiatives to improve the fight against fraud. As far as your second question is concerned, no specific agreement has yet been reached on this matter. The assessment of the charter will be reviewed within the framework of the College for the fight against tax and social fraud. As far as your third question is concerned, a thorough evaluation must first be carried out, allowing for different slopes. There are no concrete changes yet on the table. Finally, your concerns about possible derailments will, of course, be taken into account in the evaluation, which has yet to be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I do believe that it is important to tackle tax fraud and to do so correctly. With the una-via arrangement, there is already cooperation, but when I read the plans of your fellow Finance Minister, he goes a long way. It is not just about centralisation and specialisation, but BBI officials could suddenly also act as an officer of judicial police. You say that no concrete agreements and adjustments have yet been made, but if I may believe the newspapers, the ideas are already very concrete and far-reaching. I'm curious. I will follow up on the issue, because it is important to take the fight seriously, but in a correct way, with the necessary checks-and-balances, where certain balances can be maintained everywhere and as always, and I assume that you, as a liberal minister, will certainly agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic389x.u52	Mr Boukili has indicated that he would like to see his questions postponed until next week. It is a question of questions. 55014059C, 55014361C and 55014362C, 55014363C, 55014364C, 55014368C, 55014396C and 55014479C.
