ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic632x.u1	Good morning, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it was my intention to hold my discussion before the discussion of the policy paper, but since we are going to be discussing an item on the same subject at 9 a.m., it seemed a little strange to me to start again on a subject which would have been voted on in the meantime. Minister, politics is being done for people, but also for people. This is sometimes the hard part about politics and is all too often forgotten. I know you're in a difficult family situation. So I find it somewhat annoying to keep my interplay. Please excuse me for this and know that this can only be interpreted politically and in no other way. I want to talk about the coronavoucher bank, or rather the embarrassing saga of the coronavoucher bank. I do not need to repeat the whole history, as you know as well as I do and the colleagues here in the Chamber. The least we can say is that we have already done some famous tours in Parliament to ensure that the heavily affected travel sector is given the necessary support. Two weeks ago, I questioned you about this in plenary because an initiative had been taken, but the dates in the approved draft had already passed because there was no opinion from the European Commission. You replied to me that the dates had to be adjusted, because 16 November had already expired and the measures could not enter into force. I found it very strange to conclude that despite your confirmation that the new dates should be resubmitted to Parliament, there was already proactive communication via the FPS Economy website to the tour operators that the date was postponed from 16 November to 30 November, while Parliament was still in the dark. I honestly do not understand, Minister, that such a way is being worked, especially because the timeline was perfectly foreseeable. Of course, there may always be unforeseen things that need urgent attention, but this is an excellent dossier, the timeline of which was perfectly foreseeable. The dates were clearly listed in the Ministerial Decree of 19 March that the coronavoucher created: the voucher is valid for one year, after which there is six months to arrange the refund. So you knew perfectly well that from mid-September onwards tour operators would be obliged to pay back the coronavouchers to consumers. You also knew that the travel sector was very badly affected by the corona crisis. The travel sector is not only made up of large names such as Neckermann and TUI, there are also a lot of SMEs, which have turned a turnover of almost 0 %. At 10%, they were already lucky. They are healthy companies, for which the reimbursement of the coronavoucher can mean the difference between bankruptcy or survival. In this way, people see what they have built for years as snow before the sun decays. I am very sorry that the government has been so numbered. Mr Minister, I will show you an image on my computer screen: this is the rabbit from Alice in Wonderland. I don't know if you know that rabbit. It occurs at the beginning of the film and it says: "Too late, too late, I'm late! Now, 'too late' seems a bit like the mantra of this government. So you are late with the booster shot, at the expense of so many caregivers and educators and so on. The stories we hear from the care are poignant. You are also too late to decide what our energy mix will look like in the future. The decision as to whether nuclear energy will still be part of it has been postponed once again. All citizens will be the victims of this, because we will have to pay huge sums of money in any case, both when nuclear power stations remain open and when gas plants will have to be built up. Now the coronavoucherbank can also be added to your 'too late' list. In Flanders a musical was made about Alice in Wonderland in which the rabbit sings: "Too late, too late, I made a mistake." I think that the government is really making a mistake here, again, and putting Parliament out of play. Minister, how did it come to this and what will you or the government do differently in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic632x.u2	Mrs Van Bossuyt, thank you for your support. I appreciate this. The State has granted loans to tour operators for the reimbursement of open vouchers to passengers under the Law of 21 November 2021. This law could only be published and entered into force after the European Commission's review of the State aid regulatory mechanism. The European Commission approved the mechanism, but the formal decision was taken later than expected. This means that certain modalities and deadlines laid down in the law can no longer be complied with or applied. A legislative proposal to amend these deadlines was drawn up which will be discussed this morning. This amendment amends the law to allow for the practical implementation of the loan mechanism and provides for retroactivity. This enabled tour operators to submit their loan application from 22 November. On 22 and 23 November, the services of the FPS Economy sent a letter and an e-mail to all tour operators who may be eligible. All conditions and necessary documents are available on the website of the FPS Economy. This was the only way to set up a valid system of loans for coronavouchers and to provide many tour operators with the much needed oxygen. I'm not a fan of retroactivity. It is indeed a strange way of working, but the only possible way to set up the system. Finally, some changes were made to improve the mechanism, in particular the provisions on the opening of a third party loan payment account. These were clarified in consultation with Febelfin. Some tour operators have problems opening a third-party account. As you know, negotiations with the sector, with Febelfin and with Assuralia were difficult. That's too bad, but it's no different. Today there is a legislative proposal for a solution to the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic632x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You refer to the late opinion of the European Commission. I think you agree with me that if you had previously asked the Commission for advice, that advice would have come sooner. Moreover, I think that the European Commission's opinion came very quickly after we had to take acrobatic steps to get it to the Commission. You also refer to the difficult negotiations that have taken place with the various stakeholders. I have heard that these negotiations were not self-evident, but if negotiations are started in time, they will have been concluded earlier. There are many aspects to it. In the Netherlands, they also had to conduct these negotiations. In fact, lessons could have been learned from that. In the Netherlands the coronavoucherbank already exists since April. There are several consumers who had booked a trip through a Dutch organisation that already received their money back in April. You know as well as I do that for a lot of people a journey is something they save for years. It's often large sums of money. For those people it is certainly not obvious not to get their money back. Not only the tour operators, but also consumers are the victims of this government's number. That's an understatement. You refer to the retroactivity that is included in the legislative proposal that we will be voting on later. As a lawyer, I can tell you that in terms of legal certainty and other elements, it is absolutely essential to avoid the sudden retroactive application of legislation. After the scheme was first introduced in a draft law on explosives, retroactivity is now added. So the elements just pile up. This file really is a model of how it should not be done. It might serve as a case for law students. In the meantime, with our group, we are very concerned about the travel organizations which have fulfilled and repaid all their obligations, which had to be repaid since September and have therefore not been able to avail themselves of these loans. What is the government going to do for these travel agencies? That remains a big question for us. That is why we will be tabling an amendment to the bill that we will be discussing later. I hope that we will be able to avoid such matters in the future. It is not that I was awake at night about what we should do to our group, but we are in a difficult position. On the one hand, there are travel organisations and consumers who must not be the victims of the government's mess. On the other hand, the government is doing one thing after another in this dossier, which really cannot be accepted anymore. We are about to discuss the bill and will go into it in greater depth at that time. The phrase 'Too late, too late, I made a mistake' from the rabbit in Alice in Wonderland fits in perfectly with the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic632x.u4	Thank you, Mrs Van Bossuyt. Did you file a motion? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic632x.u5	Mr President, the reason why we are not tabling a motion is because we are about to discuss the draft law on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic632x.u6	No problem. I asked for completeness.
