ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 December 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 December 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u3	I have received an amendment to the bill containing the fifth adjustment to the general budget for the budget year 2021, No. 2315/1. I have received an amendment amending for the fifth time the General Expenditure Budget for the financial year 2021, No. 2315/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 December 2021, I propose that this amendment be referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 December 2021, I propose that this amendment be sent to the Committee on Finance and Budget (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). Discussion of the bill will continue in plenary, after consideration of the amendment in committee. The draft law will be discussed in plenary after discussion of this amendment in committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u4	At the request of the sponsors, I propose to postpone item 8 (Nos 1629/1 to 3) to the plenary meeting next week: - the proposal to revise Article 7bis of the Constitution (Mr. François De Smet and Mrs. Sophie Rohonyi) with a view to consecrating the secularism of the State, Nos. 1629/1 to 3. At the request of the authors, I propose that item 8 (Nos 1629/1 to 3) be postponed to next week's plenary session: - the proposal for the revision of Article 7a of the Constitution (Mr François De Smet and Ms Sophie Rohonyi) to confirm the sovereignty of the State, Nos 1629/1 to 3. I also propose that you include in the agenda of today's plenary session: - the proposal for a law (Ms Kathleen Verhelst, Mr Patrick Prévot, Ms Florence Reuter, Mr Albert Vicaire, Ms Len Dierick and Ms Melissa Depraetere and Mr Dieter Vanbesien) amending the Act of 21 November 2021 amending the Act of 15 July 2016 implementing Regulation (EU) No 98/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013 on the marketing and use of explosives precursors and laying down provisions on loans granted to tour operators for the repayment of vouchers issued in accordance with the Ministerial Decree of 19 March 2020 on the reimbursement of cancelled package trips, Nos 2339/1 to 4. In addition, I propose that you enter on the agenda of today's plenary session: - the bill (Mrs Kathleen Verhelst, Mr Patrick Prévot, Ms Florence Reuter, Mr Albert Vicaire, Leen Dierick and Melissa Depraetere and Mr Dieter Vanbesien) amending the law of 21 November 2021 amending the law of 15 July 2016 implementing Regulation (EU) No. 98/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013 on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors and laying down provisions on loans granted to tour operators for the reimbursement of vouchers issued in accordance with the Ministerial Decision of 19 March 2020 on the reimbursement of cancelled package travel, Nos 2339/1 to 4. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u5	It was Minister Vandenbroucke, who once stated - and I quote - "With the Covid Safe Ticket we can organize our freedom in a safe way." You, Prime Minister, and also the Flemish Government chose the corona pass, as this would avoid other measures. This CST works so well that in the meantime they have already taken other strict measures, so well that Jambon and Frank Vandenbroucke now also want to close the scanable locations. You laughed it off when I warned you about a false sense of security with the CST. In the meantime, it is clear that the CST is not so safe at all. It's a mistake. Last week, virologist Emmanuel André also confirmed that the CST resulted in more infections. And then there are the controls. Today, it appears from a forwarding letter that it is not allowed for police officers to scan the CST. It is not a question of being forgotten in the rules, if we can believe the media. The government would have deliberately chosen that the police should not be allowed to control the covidpas in this country, but only to check that the citizens do control each other. The explanation for such a DDR company is that public health is not a core task of the police. Apparently that's what she is in this country for barbos and shopkeepers. While dozens of P.V.s are thrown into the garbage can, there is another order in summary from the Court of First Instance in Namur, which still condemns the Walloon Government by default for using the CST without legal basis. My question is very simple, Prime Minister. How many more reasons are needed to finally abolish the coronapas, which does not work and feeds only polarization?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u6	Madam President, Prime Minister, the health care sector is under maximum pressure! All caregivers are concerned, in hospitals but also on the front line - general practitioners, nurses, pharmacists. The latest figures do not reassure both the number of hospitalizations, the congestion of intensive care and the speed of circulation of the virus, particularly among children and in schools. The consequences are also terribly serious because of the postponement of care for many other patients. The Codeco meetings follow one another and are similar with decisions that are too late, too light and this issue that has been punctuating for weeks and weeks: why are we still not using 100 per cent of the weapons at our disposal? This is the case with testing and tracing that are always overwhelmed by events. There was a crackdown after last week's Codeco. It took five days to define a strategy. Tracing is totally inoperative. This is the case with the absence of measured and effective ventilation, especially in schools. It is still not applicable and the circular of the French Community last Friday is of absolute light. The same applies to vaccination. Of course, you decided to speed up and expand the booster with the third dose, but in reality six weeks ago, the decision was delayed. Finally, Prime Minister, support for caregivers is still largely inadequate. We are at the heart of the storm, and what we need is a captain who flies, assumes with courage, decides and imposes if necessary. When will you finally assume this role by taking all levels of power into your wake and using 100% of all the weapons we have?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u7	Madam President, we thought that we had seen everything in absurdity and chaos in the management of the covid crisis. However, we have clearly underestimated the government. Over the last few days, we learned that the contact trackers sell garden furniture in Flanders, while the citizens themselves have to fill out excel tables to give their high-risk contacts. What we do ourselves, we do better, don't we? Well, that's pretty bad. The Covid Safe Ticket was declared invalid in Namur by a court and the explanation at the press conference on the new testing strategy was not yet over or a next meeting of the Consultation Committee was called. Mr. Secretary, honestly, how did you lay down the test and quarantine rules? Did you sit with the ministers and throw a dice or play bingo? Unvaccinated people must be quarantined for ten days; vaccinees must be quarantined for five days, or not, let's keep it exciting. They must be quarantined between three and six days. Then there's a schedule coming up. We would almost be homesick about Mrs Wilmès' powerpoint presentation. During the last few days, however, the main bird goes to Mr. Jambon. That has to be said. What about the culture sector? Does he want that sector open or open? Which turns does he make, honestly. However, what remains silent about the past few days is what people need to be able to apply the quarantine rules, namely what will be the wages of those who have to be quarantined. An employee who has to be quarantined for a day, five days or ten days and cannot do telework, such as a bus driver, will receive only 70% of his salary. That is the real problem, which you have still not answered for two years. Tomorrow, the Consultative Committee will meet again, on which you will make certain decisions. Will you ensure that those who have to stay home to protect others are not punished and can keep their wages?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u8	Prime Minister, Minister, at the moment we are dealing with 20,000 infections a day. Some people get seriously ill and end up in the hospital. In the meantime, this has been weighing on the care staff for a year and a half. That's under a lot of pressure. That staff is in the line of fire every day. The services Intensive Care are full. It is currently under consideration to postpone regular care. This may have serious consequences for some sick people. Think who needs cancer treatment and can't be helped. Doctors today fear that they will soon have to make choices about which patients they will and which they will not treat. The influx of corona patients should be stopped. This is the cry they have made several times over the last few days. Several measures have already been taken at the Consultation Committee last week, but more and more experts are calling for more action. There may still be a great deal of room for different and better implementation of the previous measures of the Consultative Committee. We need to be alert, too. People need clarity about the measures. They also ask why certain measures are being taken. People expect and should receive clear answers from politics. Professor Vlieghe called for a sustainable policy and she again put on the table the idea of a coronabarometer, a barometer linking measures to the epidemiological situation and to objective parameters to make policy predictable. What will you do about the worrying situation in hospitals? What new measures could possibly be taken? What is the government's position on the Coronabarometer's proposal? What measures are being taken to combat the spread of the virus? What financial consequences could they have? Are you considering support measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u9	Prime Minister, Minister, the third Codeco that has just been announced for tomorrow is the admission of a terrible failure. After almost two years of crisis management, we are still in a series of measures that are done week by week and that are different from one Region to another. There is a yo-yo effect that ultimately follows the wishes of the president of the N-VA, dictated by the figures of his only Region. Prime Minister, this health nationalism is enough! We're all in the same boat. The situation is grave in all hospitals in the country. Today, despite all our tools, the nightmare of the first waves is repeated so much for the caregivers – who are exhausted! – only for sectors that are again in lockdown. Prime Minister, you could have avoided this situation. How do you explain today to patients who have their operation postponed that it is not because of a lack of beds but because of a lack of staff? Minister, what are you doing in practice to recruit these caregivers and prevent them from escaping? They are still waiting for recognition of the penitibility of their profession but also for an adjustment of their end of career. How do you explain their new lockdown to the night, horeca, culture or event sectors despite their ongoing investments in testing, tracing, ventilation or control of the CST? At the same time, we can see that private parties take on more beautiful without any barrier gestures. I heard Mr Mahdi announce that the economic support measures you promised, Prime Minister, would in fact be more targeted than in the first waves of the epidemic. What does this mean in practice for all these workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u10	Prime Minister, do you know what Chinese torture is? Mr Vandenbroucke is sure of that and so is Mr Hedebouw. A Chinese torture means that one constantly drops a drop on the head, making one murky and docile. I think this is the purpose of the policy, of your yo-yo policy. You promise the realm of freedom, but we'll get a new prison. You hold a Consultation Committee on 17 November and were due to meet again in January, but a week later this is already being brought forward. The cock now crows for the third time at fourteen days: tomorrow there will be another Consultation Committee. What you say at night is out of date in the morning. The provision of measures between the ministers of your government and those of the sub-governments, of the regions, is more profiling fever than common sense. Schoolchildren are constantly being held hostage by the Federal Minister, the Minister of Education and the Prime Minister. They are conflicts with profiling urge between you, the ministers, instead of sound policies. The Health Minister argued with the general practitioners this week. They feel more 'testologists' than doctors, Mr Vandenbroucke. First, you were against the booster shot, now it can't be put fast enough, that's the new policy. Mr Minister, we have all been guided by inoculations, even me. What do we see? The places where there are most inoculations count most of the infections. I would like an explanation from the Minister of Health. When does bullying stop in relation to the catering industry and the event sector? Tomorrow they start organizing. What will you do? People are waiting for an answer. It has already been said here: a dishwasher can control a coronapas, not a policeman. Mr. Secretary, when will the chaos stop?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u11	Prime Minister, tomorrow we will have to organise a Consultation Committee for the third time in two weeks. More importantly, a Prime Minister said one day that we needed to relax and the next day that we needed to tighten up. It goes without saying that people do not understand such a thing, and that it risks giving up support for measures. However, these people have a lot of common sense. They're more careful when the numbers rise. However, they deserve clarity and perseverance. The virus will not be tamed and will lead us to the facts. The pressure on care is unacceptable. Therefore, if more stringent measures are needed, you will receive support from the CD&V Group. But then we also call for clarity for the whole of the end of the year, for the families, for the entrepreneurs, for the associations. That's how they know what they're up to. The vast majority in our country will also respect those rules. A few weeks ago, you agreed within the womb of the Consultation Committee and the government to have the Corona Commissioner compile a report on the vaccination obligation. What is the state of this report, now more and more countries considering vaccination requirements? It is an illusion to think that in 2022 we will be rid of this virus. The people need structure and framework. Minister, you mentioned the corona barometer in your policy paper last year. The GEES and motivational psychologists also spoke of this. People deserve that predictable framework. Can this government, together with the other governments, draw up a plan for 2022 with automatic pre-planned simple measures that will enter into force when the figures go up and down, so that everyone knows where they stand?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u12	Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to begin by saying that I understand that it is not easy for either of you and that I do not envy your position. The virus is unpredictable and requires modesty. Play each other the blackbird, certainly doesn't help here, colleagues. At the same time, we have long known that this virus does not just disappear. It's been a long time. The pandemic weighs heavily, for everyone, but certainly for our people working in the healthcare sector. Last year in January I was here too, but the number of questions about the corona crisis was not so numerous at the time. I asked about a long-term plan, but there wasn't. I do not dare to say that we would have condemned this crisis with such a plan, but probably it would have brought more peace and clarity. Now, almost two years later, we still don't have a plan. Almost two years later, we can no longer claim that the challenges are new. Yet, every wave, we seem to be once again amazed at what this virus can do. Almost two years later, we see again our healthcare sector and hospitals drowning and care provision has to be postponed again. Gentlemen, can we agree that everyone working in the healthcare sector, including our doctors, nurses and hospitals, should be involved in an analysis after each wave? It seems obvious to me that after each wave there will be sitting together to learn lessons as quickly as possible. I may be wrong, but I don't think this happened. Why not? How come we still don't have a corona barometer? I also hear colleagues asking questions about this, but it is not a new idea, and I have been asking this for more than a year in the Committee on Health. Why is it always pulling and dragging so that the figures are presented clearly? Why is there still no long-term plan to protect our care and make crisis proof?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u13	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Covid-19 unfortunately continues to lead us hard. Our country, like many others, is experiencing a new and intense wave, even stronger, that could have become a real tsunami if we had not, fortunately, vaccines. Both the previous and the new variant seem to have changed the deal. Today the famous Omicron emerges, a new variant of which scientists know little and for which the precautionary principle must prevail. With this, the Concerted Committees follow. We're informed of a new Codeco tomorrow. We have this permanent impression of running after the virus. Some sectors such as the night world, horeca or event have yet to bear the burden of restrictions. The schools had to cancel festivities and trips to the children's great damn. The reminder of barrier actions is essential, as is the ventilation, the restriction of contact and the absolute need for vaccination. Nevertheless, this is not enough. Hospitals, nursing staff and general practitioners are now K.-O. Prime Minister, new reports have just been requested from Commissioner Corona and experts. Have you ever received their findings? Will these conclusions be before tomorrow's new Consultation Committee? Fifteen days ago, my colleague asked you about the issue of vaccination. In the meantime, we see that some states have changed their positions. Some debate it and the positions are, still today, nuanced. Some expressed support for this obligation, while others did not. I ask you, Prime Minister: what is your position on this, whereas today it seems that a poll shows that almost 60% of Belgians would be in favour of it? Because even if we know that this vaccination is not going to work on our own, the figures clearly show its positive impact. Do you think today that this debate should be opened on the issue of the vaccination obligation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u14	Prime Minister, you have five minutes for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I'll answer them, along with the Minister of Health. Let me start with the facts. The facts are that the epidemiological situation has not improved. The number of infections remains very high, on average 18,000 a day, and the burden on our hospitals remains very high. Today 821 beds are occupied by intensive care. We also see that more than 200 beds are not available due to staff failure. We also see that our general practitioners are still inundated. The pressure is enormous in the care. But not just in health care. In other areas, for example in education, we also see that the pressure is very high. I've been contacted by a school director who told me about the very great unrest among parents and teachers, in the classes, in the school buses. She said, "If things go the way they are now, things won't work out." How can we deal with the situation we face? The best method is to have a systematic approach, to do an analysis. That is why I asked Commissioner Corona and the experts to give us an opinion. In addition, I have convened a Consultation Committee tomorrow; it will normally begin at 9 a.m. At a time of crisis one must be able to adjust. At the moment, it is perfectly normal for us to bring all the governments together and adjust them as quickly as possible. I'm not going to anticipate the decisions that are being made. We must carry out this analysis together, we must take decisions together and we must be able to pass those decisions together. Mrs Gijbels, you are absolutely right, fingering is not helping us at all at the moment. Today we must ensure that we can work together together. Let it be clear, everyone will have to step over their shadows. At a time like this, there can be no sacred houses. Everyone will have to shoulder their responsibilities and I hope that everyone will realise very well that we cannot end up in a situation where we say it must be done there and that it cannot happen there. Everyone will have to show their willingness to take responsibility. Will these measures be the last? It's hard for me to say now. We see that the virus is unpredictable, that it attacks us where we are most vulnerable and that it also changes face. Last week, we were alerted to the presence of a new variant. Our country, together with the European Commission, has taken immediate action on travel. For the time being, three cases have been confirmed in our country, while six are still suspected. It is premature to draw conclusions about a possible impact on our vaccination campaign. What we do know is that vaccination remains the most important and necessary protection, but it is now clear that in autumn and winter vaccination is not enough in itself. We have long thought that we would come with a large-scale vaccination campaign. We thought that vaccination was our defence wall, and we thought that that defence wall would in itself fully concrete us against the danger of the virus and that the virus could never get through that wall in any way. The reality is different today. We must acknowledge that we have misjudged this. The reality is that we thought the vaccination would lead us to the terminal. Today we see that vaccination takes us a long way, but not to the terminal. The reality today is that, on top of vaccination, at times when additional measures are needed now. This does not detract from the fact that vaccination works, that it is effective and that it protects very well. ECDC, the European Agency, has calculated that vaccination in our country has avoided 7,800 deaths. Sciensano calculated last week that the vaccination campaign was able to avoid 30,000 recordings in hospitals. The booster vaccination campaign is going very well. Over the past week, 500,000 new doses have been administered. A total of 1.7 million booster doses have already been administered. We are one of the top countries in Europe in this respect. However, it will be an intense effort. We need to further vaccinate people, but we need to understand at a time like this that additional safety belts are needed to maximise the effectiveness of this vaccination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a decent society cannot allow the healthcare sector to capse under a pandemic. In a decent society, politics has to do what it has to do. Politics must do everything that must be done, even though it is not easy, and even though it requires great efforts, inverse of positions taken before, without sacred houses, without party political dogmas, it simply needs to do what has to be done. This must be done on the basis of the facts and the scientific advice we receive. As far as we are concerned, the advice we have received from the GEMS, the experts of the Corona Secretariat, is the basis for departure. Let us go for a strong, comprehensive and comprehensive package. The last few days have indeed been complicated for many people. We are getting confusion and confusion. That's right. If it storms and it continues to storm, one must strengthen and continue to strengthen the dikes, quickly re-enhancing. At some point, however, they must be made strong enough. That's the challenge for tomorrow. It cannot be the intention to convene the Consultative Committee a fourth time; the dikes must be strong enough tomorrow. That is the commitment and the GEMS opinion is a very good starting point for this. Questions have also been asked about the CST. Well, the CST, the coronapas, is one instrument. As the Prime Minister has already said, vaccination is essential. So being able to prove that you've been vaccinated is an essential tool. We know, however, that this is unfortunately not enough at the moment. Let's face facts. So it is coronapas and mouth mask and ventilation and other measures. Indeed, the police are not supposed to enter a café and ask the people at the tables to show their coronapas. That is not the intention, and this has now been made very clear by the justice system. We do not want that, that is a task for the operator or the organizer. However, it remains so that the police can check whether the organizer and the operator actually have the corona pass used as it should be used. That's what we wish for, and we're not gonna change that. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to stress, as the Prime Minister has already done, that our campaign for the booster vaccine is ongoing. By the way, we'll strengthen them. Let me add that we owe a great deal of thanks to the people of the vaccination centres. They are once again making every effort to ensure that this is done smoothly. At present 1.8 million booster vaccines have been put in place and there is a great willingness on the part of the population. This morning QVAX is open for Flanders and Wallonia. Eighty-two thousand people have registered at the moment. This proves that people understand the importance of this. Last night, 50,000 people had registered in the Brussels system BRUVAX. I would like to respond to the questions concerning the strengthening of the care sector. Let me say that this government, but not only the forces in the opposition too, have made enormous efforts for the health care sector. I'm limited to the federal care sector. There is the White Blouses Fund, also made thanks to parties that are now in the opposition. It's beautiful! You are aware that this fund has already allowed 4,500 additional recruitments. Let us be very concrete! Here in the region, if St. Peter's Hospital tells us that we have recruited an additional 58 full-time equivalents, either it does not tell the truth or there is a real reinforcement. Erasmus hired an additional 64 full-time equivalents. Is it true or not? Please don't let's say there's no effort! There's the effort for salaries. You know him: 600 million euros of salary revalorisation. I know there are still problems, especially for specialized nurses, but we are working on them. I can tell you that I have tabled in the government a package of very significant measures for additional support measures for hospitals, for staff. Indeed, we know how difficult and painful their situation is. That's what I meant, Madam President. I believe that we must now unite for a strong and sufficient action, and therefore solidarity, based on facts and not on taboos, things that have been said, dogmas. Building on the facts and acting strongly is what we need to do!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u17	Minister, you rightly gave calculations of the usefulness of vaccinations. I wonder whether you dare to make the calculation of the consequences of the lateness of the third shot for this fourth wave. I'm very sorry you came so late with that third shot. I do not think we should underestimate the consequences of this. The advice of the GEMS you are counting on has already been leaked. Colleagues can already read it on the Internet. Unfortunately, it does not include the abolition of the CST, despite the fact that it is a discriminatory and counter-productive measure. You're holding on to it, I hear. However, you do so every time with a different explanation. You suggested the CST as a measure to increase safety, but the CST is doing the opposite. Your lies mutate faster than the virus, Minister. You have to be honest in your communication. The only acceptable answer today was sorry, we made a mistake, we were wrong and we will abolish the CST.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u18	Prime Minister, it is not enough to convene Codeco meetings to protect patients. Asking experts for advice is good, but not just to pretend and, of course, provided they follow their advice! Yes, we need solid dams and today they are neither sufficient nor strong enough. To have solid dikes, we must first and foremost apply the weapons we have to 100 per cent. That is still not the case. It also supports caregivers to meet their needs. Minister of Health, if the reinforcement had been real and sufficient, today we would not have 200 ICU beds closed for lack of nurses. The Codeco is meeting again tomorrow. We will see the decisions that will be made, but I expect you, Prime Minister, to also impose on all levels of authority to implement the decisions that will be made with all the necessary means.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u19	Minister, I am sorry, but if we are in a chaotic situation today, it is also because of you. As you said, you've only relied on vaccination and all the other lines of defense, you've dismantled them in the last few months. Take the example of contact follow-ups! There were 1,500 people engaged. We started this wave with only 1,000 people. Take the general practitioners! No additional support since the beginning of the pandemic. Take the testing centers! You closed them more instead of keeping them and then you come to tell us that there are no taboos. You also say that there should be no sacred houses. Take the testing centers: you have closed them instead of keeping them! And then you declare that there will be no taboo. I'll suggest a few ideas. First of all, it is a matter of immunizing all over the world. If a new variant has appeared, it is also because our planet is not yet fully vaccinated. And what are you defending today? You agree with the refusal of pharmaceutical companies to share their patents. Are you going to perpetuate this taboo or are you going to change your mind? Finally, I didn't hear anything about income in about 40 years. We've been asking for this for two years. GEMS has recommended in two reports that you guarantee income in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u20	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for the answers. I hear colleagues talking about bullying and lack of foresight, but the facts are what they are, the hospitals are filling up. The measures are therefore necessary and they are working. Let's face it, we didn't expect this after the successful vaccination campaign. Imagine where we would be today without vaccines! Prime Minister, you are calling for unanimity. I totally agree, we need to get out of this together. I am pleased that a number of colleagues have seen this in the meantime, after a few weeks ago they thought it was a Walloon or Brussels problem. Make the decisions that are necessary for the care, the decisions that are needed for everyone. You said earlier this week that you don't want to leave anyone behind. I am remembering that signal and I am asking for help to be given to all those who are financially affected by the crisis. Bedankt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u21	Prime Minister, you have absolutely not answered me about the economic support measures that are planned for the lockdown sector. This is very worrying for the workers concerned. Minister, with regard to the lack of health care staff, mainly in our hospitals, you are again presenting the White Blouse Fund as the panacea, when you know very well that it is based on a climbing system, designed in such a way that, in the absence of health care staff, it is rather technical staff that is recruited. How do you want health measures to be respected if they are inconsistent, if no heading is set and if you run, in the end, like a hen without a head? It is not a question of opposing hospitals to the economic sectors, since they are precisely the victims of the shortage of healthcare staff, to which you still do not answer. As has been said, the Omicron variant makes us live today a real race against the clock in order to fight the variants. All that remains to be hoped is that this third Codeco in the space of three weeks will finally be the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u22	Minister, the people have been doing what they have to for two years. However, you are not doing what is necessary. They stayed in their quarters and you closed the schools. They sewed mouth masks themselves when you had none, and they inoculated themselves to the maximum. Passes have been made and there's contact tracing. I ask you one question: how come we still have the fourth highest contagion rates in Europe, despite the fact that we have been given maximum vaccination? Answer that. That's science, instead of talking about repression every time. Why do you keep taking the kids hostage? A child at 28,000 has a chance to end up on a sick bed, a child has one chance at 1 million to die due to covid. In order to hide your mischief, you continue to hold the children hostage while they should build immunity. You should look at the countries where there is immunity, but learning is extremely difficult with your stubbornness.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u23	Mr Verherstraeten, you have the floor for your reply. [[Tumult]] Please, colleagues, a little silence. I call Mr Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u24	Mr Prime Minister, there is no shame in redefining. Not doing that would be irresponsible. I fully agree with the Minister for Health, the third time must be a good time. As the Prime Minister said, everyone must do their bit, including those whom we have so far done our utmost. We are particularly in favour of a plan for 2022, with the completion of the third vaccination. Vaccination does not bring about the realm of freedom, but it is a necessary protection against unfreedom. For us, this is a vaccination obligation, which several neighbouring countries have already decided on, but above all with a barometer of pre-planned measures, which will enter into force depending on improving or deteriorating figures, so that people know where they stand. Gouverner, c'est prévoir, that is not evident with this vaccine or with covid, but we have to try.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u25	Prime Minister, Mr Vice Prime Minister, if this fourth wave has taught us anything, then it is modesty. So please stop playing political games, stop taking that ad hoc approach. This virus does not go away and there is an urgent need to think in the long term. You must indeed do what must be done, Minister Vandenbroucke. You need to put on the table a comprehensive crisis plan, talked to the people of care. That we still do not have that and that an analysis was not made after every wave, I dare say, negligent. It is high time, the water is on the lips of the care. Sit with the care providers and still draw the lessons to be drawn. Support our concern. Please take care of that corona barometer, so we know where we stand. We all need something to hold on to.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u26	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. A Consultation Committee and measures are announced. What is required here is nothing more or nothing less than this: if it is absolutely necessary to defend our people against this virus and to preserve it, we would like these measures to work out clarity, transparency, pedagogy and also prospects and hope. It is important, especially vis-à-vis sectors that will be affected, to give an exit path. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you are also announcing additional resources to strengthen health care staff and hospital services that have already been made available under the White Blouse Fund. This is an indispensable and requested perspective. As I said earlier, our daily heroes are now K.O. It is a question of equipping them, of strengthening them, of enabling them to carry out the struggles they are carrying out today to preserve our people. Above all, it is a matter of giving them these means quickly so that they can do it usefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u27	Minister, prices are exploding: fuel, shopping, energy. It's becoming untenable! In our country, we have a system called automatic wage indexation, a system of protection that the working class ripped off a hundred years ago. Now we hear the boss who is asking for an index jump without hindrance! If we listen to it, there'll be 3 billion less for the workers. This means a loss of EUR 700 per worker. Minister, we do not need an index jump! The real debate today is whether we are going to have real wage increases. It should be recalled that this automatic indexation of wages is not an increase in purchasing power, it is an adjustment of wages to the cost of living. I'll tell the boss and the right that instead of asking for an index jump, big companies need to cut their dividends a little bit. During this crisis, the country's biggest companies put their pockets on the workers' backs. OCE salaries increased by 70%! It's indecent! Minister, do you promise here that Vivaldi will not affect the automatic wage indexation mechanism? This Monday, there's a trade union demonstration. Will you finally support union demands and review this 1996 law that prevents wage increases in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u28	Madam President, Madam Member, thank you for your question. As you said, next Monday, the common union front calls for protests with several demands that echo a number of concerns that I share, including the question of price increases, especially the question of rising energy prices. That is why, as you know, Member of Parliament, I fought with my colleagues in the government to ensure that the cost of this bill, especially for the most fragile, could be reduced. We have obtained in particular the supply of the Gas Electricity Fund to the tune of 16 million euros, an extension of the extended social tariff for gas and electricity tariffs which benefits a million families in our country and finally, the granting of an energy check of 80 euros to the beneficiaries of these social tariffs. We have also decided to put in place anti-abuse measures and to combat dubious practices, in particular to reduce the cost of switching from a variable to a fixed contract and to ensure that the advance payment paid corresponds as best as possible to the final invoice. Madam Member, your question allows me to reiterate in this House what I have already said in the press, namely that I was with trade unions in order to maintain automatic indexing of wages and social benefits. They are right to claim it and we are right to support it. I have said this and I repeat: there is no question of touching on automatic indexing, a system set up, as you have said, following the mobilisation of workers, but also by one of my most illustrious predecessors, Socialist Minister Joseph Wauters, to whom this automatic indexation of wages and allowances is due. This measure protects the purchasing power of workers, social recipients, and therefore the most fragile, but also of the middle class. Touching on automatic indexing of wages and allowances is no passaran!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u29	I therefore take note here today, in a positive way, of the fact that Vivaldi promises not to touch the wage indexation mechanism as presented today, and I welcome it. On the other hand, I do not understand why you are not considering revising this 1996 law, which prevents trade union organizations from freely negotiating wage increases. As I said earlier, this is where the stakes for the working class lie today. You will recall, of course, that a national demonstration on the common front will take place on Monday to demand more purchasing power. I don't know if you'll be there, but we'll be there anyway. Will you be there, Minister? Instead, camp with the Minister's 0.4% label. We will be there, as well as workers from Brussels, the North and the South of the country and the various sectors. In particular, I would like to put (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u30	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, for the past few days, SNCB has been facing daily cases of illness among field staff. In fact, on behalf of my group, but also – I think I can say – on behalf of the whole of this House, I would like to support the sick staff, a remarkable staff who did a fairly important job during the first waves and who kept up the pace. But this morning, a number fell: 120 trains were deleted a week from next week. This obviously affects the service, but also the passengers who find themselves in even more crowded trains, with greater promiscuity. I will not go back to the "window" measure you mentioned a few months ago to limit the number of passengers on trains. But let me refer to the study by the Institut Pasteur which determined that contamination was increased in public transport. I therefore wonder about the strategy put in place at SNCB level. Minister, are the measures taken today to accommodate and transport travellers sufficient? Did any further train deletions occur during the first waves? I don't remember it, but it's still possible. I would like clarification in this regard. Do you confirm that the deleted trains will be returned to service after the pandemic in a sustainable manner? This information is important to travellers. Has not your strategy taken into account the fact that field staff may be forced to stop their activities because of illness? I wonder about this because I do not think there is a co-vid plan for SNCB, as is the case for schools or hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u31	Madam President, Mr Burton, I have two news, one good and one bad. You have just exposed the bad: the SNCB is not spared by the covid. Workers are also parents whose children go to school. They have a social life. Many are therefore also affected by the virus or quarantined. Today, about 15% of SNCB's rolling staff are out of work. It is for this reason that the SNCB Steering Committee took the decision to temporarily suspend certain trains. A series of them were suspended on Monday. Others will be from next Monday. This is equivalent to a hundred trains a day. In other words, out of a total of 3,800 trains, this represents 2.5%. These are suspensions imposed due to illness and planned. Thus, rather than resorting to last-minute cancellations, which cast doubt on passenger safety, SNCB preferred to target – a sufficient number of trains is guaranteed on each route – and make temporary cancellations due to the unavailability of a number of staff members. I have urged SNCB to ensure that daily monitoring is carried out, that full information is given to passengers, that normal service resumes as quickly as possible and that trains travel with maximum capacity to avoid passenger concentrations in certain cars. This is for the bad news and the constraint we know. The good news is the implementation of SNCB's transport plan. From 12 December next, the supply of trains will increase by 5%, i.e. an additional 1,000 trains per week, mainly on the routes S Antwerp, Liège, Charleroi and Brussels. This is our policy to attract more passengers to rail. In a detailed and particular way, we must remove them, but structurally, we are increasing them. As you have done, I would like to highlight the work of SNCB workers in these difficult circumstances, which we all wish to see completed as soon as possible so that we can regain our freedoms.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u32	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. It is true that the situation is not simple. I invite you to be proactive in terms of strategy to implement with specific protocols in relation to passenger transport. Other sectors in equally complicated situations have done so. I would therefore like to see follow-up on this request. However, I am pleased to hear from you that this is temporary and that the supply will increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u33	Minister, yesterday, December 1st, it was World AIDS Day, which still represents a global but also national scourge. According to the Belgian figures for 2020, 720 people have been infected with HIV, two per day in our country. That's disturbing! Sciensano published a report in which it appears that the covid-19 pandemic slowed down testing and led to a discontinuity in treatment administration. It's obviously very serious. Minister, how do you intend to remedy this? Then, between 2014 and 2019, with Mrs De Block, we had developed a national plan to combat HIV, which came to an end at the end of the legislature. Are you going to renew it? Are you committed to addressing this critical problem, should we remind you?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u34	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 36 million people have died since the discovery of HIV 40 years ago. Yesterday was World AIDS Day, an opportunity for us to pay tribute to these millions of people who have disappeared; to the other 37 million who are currently living with HIV; to these doctors, caregivers and nurses who are accompanying patients; and to the associations and communities that have been campaigning against this virus for 40 years. We say thank you to them. A few weeks ago, the United Nations again confirmed its intention to end the epidemic by 2030. To achieve these ambitious goals, which must mobilize all of us, we cannot turn a blind eye to people disproportionately affected by HIV. In fact, people who are rejected from society are by definition remote from screening opportunities but also from health care. Today, the risk of contracting HIV is 25 times higher for men who have sex with men. It is 35 times higher in people who inject drugs. It is 34 times higher among trans women and, finally, it is 26 times higher among women in prostitution. These links between vulnerability and infection refer us to icy realities. A woman who suffers domestic violence is at greater risk of contracting HIV due, for example, to unprotected violent sexual assaults. A LGBTQIA+ person, for fear of talking about sexual practices or orientation, will find it difficult to talk to his family, his entourage, his doctor, and also because of discriminatory laws. It will therefore be removed from prevention, screening and care systems. Minister, what is the Belgian government's strategy to achieve UNAIDS 2030 targets? What funding will Belgium provide for this strategy? How will you include the various vulnerable audiences in this strategy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u35	Minister, you have four minutes for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u36	Madam President, I apologize for coming late. These are two important issues. We know the numbers. In 2022, 727 new HIV diagnoses were confirmed in Belgium. This corresponds to two diagnoses a day, which is a lot. However, the number of new HIV diagnoses has decreased by 21% compared to 2019. This sharp decline is observed in all affected populations and is strongly related to the covid-19 pandemic and measures to limit its spread. Given the increasing diversity of populations affected by HIV, prevention and screening strategies, as well as care, must be accessible and inclusive for all affected populations. This is particularly important in times of pandemics because of the precarious situation of some people. One year ago, consultations were held with organizations that are in close contact with sex workers. We have adapted the services to ensure accessibility in a safe manner. You probably know that UNAIDS has set the target for 2030 at 95-95-95: 95% people living with HIV diagnosed, 95% on antiretroviral therapy and 95% with undetectable viral load. I believe that Belgium is on track to achieve these objectives, but we must not stagnate. The plan developed by Mrs De Block, I believe, was a very important step. A new proposal for the HIV plan was discussed in October as part of the Inter-Federal Intercabinets Prevention. This plan will be validated at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u37	Minister, thank you for this very important information. I am pleased that the government is looking at a continuation of the national plan that was initiated by Minister De Block. It's important! Emphasis should be placed on the inclusiveness of all HIV prevention policies and on further improving access to HIV testing, including in times of pandemics. Prevention, which must be carried out in concert with the federated entities, must continue on a daily basis. It should also be noted that protecting oneself is still the best way to protect oneself from a risk of AIDS infection. We have to remind everyone, at all ages and at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u38	Minister, I take care of and attention to inclusiveness, accessibility and disadvantaged audiences from your intervention. Thank you very much for that. The HIV response strategy must be the same for all pandemics. Only a strategy that includes people who are excluded from society can get us out of HIV. Finally, the way in which we manage this health crisis is perhaps significant in the vision of society we want: a society that integrates everyone regardless of origin, administrative status, gender, sexuality or social condition. A society without discrimination will be a society without HIV.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, are we on the eve of a Proximus Gate? After repeated scandals – I am not going to repeat the list, Panama Papers, Pandora Gates and many others – we are now learning that the public company Proximus would be in advanced negotiation with a so-called "white cheque" company, understand empty shell, a screen company installed in a tax haven in the Cayman Islands, and whose boss is himself based in Malta, another problematic territory in the field of international tax fraud. Why is it under negotiation through one of its subsidiaries? It is in order to circumvent the bonds related to the probable or possible listing on the stock exchange of the said subsidiary, which is called TeleSign. Madam Minister, you will understand that as the government mobilizes to combat this scourge of financial crime, international tax fraud, and that after repeated scandals, no one could admit that one of our public companies, one of our industrial flagships in the field of communication and the digital economy, is now compromised in what could, tomorrow, be an international financial scandal. Minister, what is your information on this? Where are we in these discussions? If the information turns out to be real, what are your means of action and what do you intend to do to get this public enterprise out of this bad pot linked to a likely tax scandal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u40	Mr Laaouej, thank you for your question, which gives me the opportunity to give a very firm answer. TeleSign is a company whose head office, as you know, is in the United States and which has been wholly owned by Proximus, via BICS, since February. Proximus has confirmed to me that I am examining the various strategic options that could enable TeleSign – which it calls a "pearl" in its portfolio – to reach its full potential. This company is responsible for authentication and mobile digital identification and secure platforms CpaaS (Communication Platform as a Service). The Board of Directors has decided to enter the stock exchange, for which all possibilities are being examined – a task that takes a long time. This includes a merger with a Special Purpose Acquisition Company (SPAC), which is a fairly common process in the United States, but is still unknown in Europe. This dossier is followed by the Board of Directors. Proximus told me that at this stage it was difficult to comment on the details, since it is also listed on the stock exchange. Moreover, you may have noticed that the stock markets had already reacted to this announcement. I can inform you that there is no question – and I am very firm in this regard – that Proximus should use this PSPC, whose head office is located in the Cayman Islands, to bring TeleSign into the stock market. Like you, I am convinced that this would be unacceptable for a Belgian public company. You know that the board of directors is busy discussing it. In any case, I repeat, it is out of the question that Proximus is planning a merger with a PSPC located in a tax haven.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u41	I insist on respect for speaking times!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u42	Minister, your answer is clear. We will support you in this process. How are people at the helm of this public enterprise to imagine that we are going to let them take this flagship of the Belgian public industry to the filthy field of international tax fraud? This is totally unacceptable! We must be able to tell them and others that we cannot at the same time ask the Belgian State to mobilise all the forces at its disposal to combat tax fraud and financial crime and not to set an example where it is run, where it is a shareholder! This is totally unacceptable! Minister, thank you for your answer, which is clear but must be followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u43	Madam President, Minister, very recently I received some answers to questions I asked about the Deradex wings. Those are the specialized wings in our prisons, intended to treat radicalized prisoners. I must confess that I am concerned by the figures. The wings would be almost empty, although currently dozens of radicalized prisoners are still in Belgian cells and are also being released in a small way. Among them are undoubtedly the six IS-brides and supporters of terrorist group IS, which were actively repatriated by you and the current government in July 2021. That was then allowed to cost a sloppy EUR 1.5 million. That was, I quote, 'in the interests of our national security'. After all, here they immediately went under lock and key. Here we could control them permanently. When we formed a coalition together, that was not the case. In 2019 then Minister Alexander De Croo said literally: "The last thing we want is to bring those people back to Belgian soil." They had to be tried before an international tribunal. This was decided differently very recently. Mr Minister, I have a very simple yes-no question for you: can you guarantee us that the six supporters of terrorist group are all locked up in your Belgian prison at this very moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u44	Madam President, Mr Metsu, ladies and gentlemen, addressing the radicalised in our prisons remains a priority. Mr Metsu, it is true that the previous government has drawn up a plan and has contributed to that plan. It included the creation of the Deradex wings in the Hasselt and Ittre prisons, in order to prevent ideological hardliners and recruiters from 'infecting' other prisoners. Mr Metsu, the Deradex wings have never fully absorbed the capacity that was foreseen. Today, four prisoners are still in the Deradex wing in Ittre. Mr Metsu, why did that number fall? First of all, because there is a greatly reduced influx into our prisons. Secondly, because the CelEx list to which you refer is now more than halved. Thirdly, because we have ongoing disengagement programmes, whereby the prisoners flow to so-called satellite prisons. Satellite prisons are prisons where specialized teams guide and follow up radicalised people. There are five of those satellite prisons in our country: in Bruges, Ghent, Saint Gillis, Andenne and Lantin. But despite the decline in the figures, there is no reason for complacency. We need to stay alert. I share your concern in that regard. That is why we will be taking additional measures in the near future. Firstly, we have learned from the good practices of the LIVCs. We will also establish such structures in our prisons: penitentiary security cells. Secondly, we are recruiting 22 security coordinators for our prisons. They will be people who are the point of contact for the security of the State, and at the same time they will be responsible for an even better risk assessment. Thirdly, we will, as you know, also double the number of staff employed in the security of the State in the coming years. In the meantime, there are 4,500 candidates for a vacancy at the State Security Office. So we leave nothing to chance. And to answer your question, yes, I can assure you that those six ladies are indeed locked up. Thank you for your continued attention on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I take note of the fact that you guarantee 100 % that those 6 repatriated IS brides, i.e. supporters of terror, are under lock and key. I hope you're right, and you can take care of that. My sources testify differently. They say there's already more than one at large. Then we have a fundamental problem. Corona, of course, dominates our media, so all these jars can stay closed. Without corona, this was one of the hot items, I guarantee you. We will, of course, keep knocking on that nail. Minister, as far as I am concerned, and as far as my sources are concerned, some of these IS-brides are already at large. Then you can say: that is up to the judiciary, who has made statements, but of course you will be responsible. I'll tell you why. Without this government's decision on active repatriation, they would never or never have been free. Truth be told, I'd say.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u46	Madam Minister, earlier this year, the Constitution established the principle that we allow everyone to be part of society. That beautiful principle only gets value through action. Unfortunately, people with disabilities have been disadvantaged for years if they want to work actively in society. Anyone who wants to work, work more or live with his or her loved one, despite the handicap, will be financially punished. That is the end of this period of government; that is clear. We recognise that people are equal and sometimes have additional support to achieve the same, such as integration. Moving to work requires more for who is in a wheelchair. On the occasion of the International Day for People with Disabilities on 3 December, tomorrow, I would like to evaluate where we stand. We are working on, among other things, more accessible public transport. The price of love will be abolished and there will be a reform that will have to cut off the price of labour, so that more people can maintain their integration. Now we have to ensure that the target is informed, so that he knows how fast and how well we work here. Madam Secretary, when will the measures announced come into effect? How will you ensure that beneficiaries are informed not through the newspaper, but by the administration when the measures enter into force and what they mean for their personal situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u47	Madam Secretary, tomorrow is the International Day for Persons with Disability. Companies beg for extra helping hands, but unfortunately the rate of effectiveness in people with disabilities is too low. So we must not miss the opportunity today to help them get a suitable job, because they too want to work. We will have to take into account the limitations, both in terms of job content and in terms of work equipment. That too is customization. Businesses can do this by systematically integrating the involvement of people with disabilities into HR policies. In doing so, we must dare to leave the path that has been flattened and no longer look exclusively at the social economy. It is important, but we must not forget that the capacities of those involved are often wrongly ignored, and we must not underestimate their talents. We want our companies to realise equal opportunities and an inclusive workplace, and we could do so by introducing an accessibility charter. The VDAB, Forem and Actiris have an important role to play in leading a suitable job. Also federally, we have important tools in our hands, which remain unused for the time being. For example, we can create a flexible working framework or assign an inflow function to the interim sector, which can work threshold lowering to allow people with disabilities to experience their first work experience. What measures do you want to take to get more people with disabilities back to work, including in the regular sector? Will you bet on flexible work schedules and use the threshold lowering inflow function through the interim sector? Finally, will you encourage regular business to create an inclusive and accessible working environment in accordance with an accessibility charter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u48	The International Day for People with a Disability on December 3 reminds us of the huge steps we still have to take to make our society more inclusive. On my initiative, the government has adopted an ambitious and concrete Federal Disability Action Plan. Employment is one of the priorities. That is why, during the budgetary conclave, we decided to tackle the price of labour. The aim of this reform is to increase the exemption ceiling on labour income to EUR 63 000; the measure will enter into force this year. That amounts to an increase of 250%. At the same time, the ceiling for exemption from replacement income is also increasing. This measure will benefit more than 40,000 people. An annual budget of over 19 million has been allocated for this purpose. Many people with disabilities want and can work, but in many cases they lose their integration. With that measure, we will avoid that. As for the price of love, the measure will be applied automatically. We'll be communicating extensively about this. On the eve of the International Day for People with Disabilities, I call on all private employers and public employers to assume their responsibilities and contribute to an inclusive society and workplace. On the eve of this International Day of Persons with Disabilities, I would also like to say so in French. Now that the price of work has been reduced, I appeal to all employers, both public and private, to take on their responsibilities so that they can collectively make a more inclusive society because work is inclusion and emancipation for all people, including people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u49	Madam Minister, even though we still have to take huge steps towards inclusive society, the measure mentioned above is an important step forward. By the way, we are responding to the amendment of the Constitution Article 22b, unfortunately without the support of the N-VA and the Flemish Interest, you remember the heavy discussions at the beginning of this year - which ruled out the change as a symbolic policy. Your policy today shows once again that it is not a question of symbolism. Very concrete, no less than 40,000 people retain their integration meeting and can actively contribute to society without being financially punished. They are recognized and appreciated. Unfortunately, because a disability does not disappear magically when working and because working also has to pay for those people, I am very satisfied with that step. We acknowledge that and continue to work on it. I hope colleagues will understand that the amendment of the law was more than a symbol.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u50	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I hope that all the relevant ministers will work to lead people with disabilities to a regular job. The introduction of an accessibility charter can be an added value, as I explained. People with disabilities deserve a place in the vision of labour market policy, especially because we are aiming for an activity rate of 80%. Equal rights for every disabled person, including in the labour market, absolutely deserve our attention. Very often we underestimate their talents. Inclusion is only successful when we focus on what the stakeholders can and not on their limitations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u51	Madam Secretary, an estimated 100,000 illegals roam the streets of Brussels. Those are not my figures, but the figures that the Brussels Government has provided to you and Secretary of State Mahdi. It is of course written in the stars that this should sooner or later lead to nuisance. Among other things, the illegals gather in the vicinity of the Brussels-North station, leading to criminal offences. I do not need to remind you that employers even employ private security firms to securely get their staff to work in their workplace, and I certainly do not need to remind you of the letter sent to you by the Brussels Government a month ago. I would also like to mention that the Committee on the Interior has still not been given access to that letter. I do not need to remind you that this week the mayors of Brussels called the alarm bell and asked you to send reinforcements, because they can no longer control the situation. They're asking you to bring in the federal police, Madam Secretary, in order to restore order and security in the station environment. My question is clear and clear: will you respond to that call, Madam Secretary? Will you instruct the federal police to restore order and justice in Brussels-North and elsewhere in Brussels where necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u52	Mr Depoostere, I am, of course, aware of the security issue near Brussels-North. Let us be clear: there is more going on in this area than just the nuisance of transmigrants or migrants. There are also homeless people, there is a drug problem, there is a problem of prostitution and we do not yet talk about the illegal economy, which the Mayor of Saint-Joost-ten-Node has mentioned. It is no longer a pleasant, safe neighborhood for the neighborhood residents, but also not for the people who come to work through the station in our capital. On 19 October, we held a meeting with the Prime Minister of Brussels and the Minister of Justice in the Cabinet of Secretary of State Mahdi, because the complex issue requires an integrated approach for all actors. Several initiatives have already been taken in the past. We have also recently expanded the MEDUSA platform. It is an operational platform led by the Brussels DirCo. We have extended this platform to include political representatives of the regions, local authorities and the federal level. A meeting was held in this constellation on 28 November to discuss and address the problem. It is the case, and I am sure the Prime Minister of Brussels knows this, that he must take the lead in dealing with this problem. It should coordinate this on the basis of its administrative enforcement powers. Targeted actions have already been carried out in the past and one can go even further. Effective action can be taken together with the federal inspection services, the federal and local police and the Aliens Office. After all, let me be clear: police actions alone can never lead to a lasting solution to this phenomenon because then the symptoms often shift to other neighbourhoods. Let me be clear: the coordinated approach under the leadership of the Prime Minister needs to be further pursued. The deployment of federal police on the ground could also fit into that plan. I therefore call on everyone to use all possible means to restore the safety of local residents, but certainly also of commuters and bona fide entrepreneurs. I'm sure I'd like to cooperate in such an approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u53	Madam Minister, the commuters and the population certainly do not benefit from the raising of umbrellas, the transfer of responsibilities to Prime Ministers and so on. You have to take responsibility for yourself. It will mop up with the tap open if no real firm expulsion policy is pursued in this country. 100,000 illegals, which leads to crime, cannot be ignored. So we need to get rid of the open border policy. We must punish illegality. We need to track down the illegals and lock them in closed centres. We should not give them an A4 but send them back to their country of origin. Get a job out of that. Work with the government on that. The Flemish Interest has already made a number of concrete proposals in a brochure. I'd be happy to give them to you. It's time for a Fortress Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u54	Colleagues, last night it was zero degrees and again dozens of asylum seekers spent the night at the Klein Kastiltje, in the freezing cold and the melting snow. They didn't get shelter or bed, bath and bread, even though they deserve it. That is unacceptable and Vooruit therefore calls for immediate emergency care for them. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to stress in advance that this government has indeed learned lessons from what went wrong under the previous government. For Forward, it is clear that the best way to have sufficient reception is, of course, to speed up the processing of asylum applications. While the previous government has cut back on the staff of the asylum services and continued to grow behind, with all the consequences for reception, this government had quite rightly launched a major recruitment campaign. The recruitment and the corresponding training are ongoing and will be profitable. That'll be good for everyone, but that takes time. That is not the time for asylum seekers to spend the night on the streets. That is why it is our duty to provide at least emergency care in the meantime. No matter how difficult it is, no matter how many opposing forces there may be, we must never accept that people should sleep in the streets at freezing temperatures. This government can be very much in the same direction as the noses, including in the area of migration. I would therefore urge you and everyone within the government, but also, for example, the defence and local authorities, to do what is necessary without taboos and to organise emergency care immediately. No one has to spend the next few nights on the street. Mr Secretary of State, will this government take care of that? If so, how and when? Good luck.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u55	Madam President, Secretary of State, many asylum seekers spend the night in the streets at the Klein Kasteelje. That doesn't leave anyone unmoved, not even you. I know you well enough for that. Whether it is asylum seekers, homeless people, people in poverty or victims of the flood, as Christian Democrats, we find it unacceptable that people should sleep in the cold in the streets. We agree that we must find a solution. That's what you're doing day and night. But you will not be able to do so if you have to do it all by yourself. Everyone needs to help find places. It is a responsibility of every minister and also of the local authorities. I therefore hope that all parties in the majority and opposition in the hemisphere will call on their mayors and ships to help in the search for shelters. Mr Secretary of State, you have already proved that you want to take responsibility. You've already created a thousand additional shelters. You have also been given your plans to create 5,400 buffer spaces. You are also permanently in dialogue with the local authorities. That's good, but we also know that these conversations don't run smoothly. A lot of local authorities don't like that. This applies, for example, to Glons with whom you have been in consultation for weeks. There's an empty barracks there, but the local government's on the brakes. Mr Secretary of State, what additional measures do you intend to take to provide solutions in the short term? Have you received many concrete proposals from your fellow ministers who had to participate in the search for shelters and places and buildings where people can be received? What do local authorities and organisations propose? Do they actually have any suggestions? How do you intend to work with them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, the endless lines of these men, women and children forced to wait outside, day and night, in the middle of winter, this is not worthy and it is even less worthy of our country. You and the government bear full responsibility for what is happening. If I say "government," it is because there was a time when the progressive parties of this government were heard more demanding a minimum of humanity. A few days ago, you explained the reasons for the reception problems. You also explained the measures still to be implemented. But you yourself have also recognized that it is no longer possible to register everyone who shows up in the morning on the same day. Let's make it clear, it's as if the daily quotas for Théo Francken were again in place. Today, this government postpones its duty to the voluntary sector, which is working tirelessly to prevent a humanitarian tragedy in our country. Day after day, when you look at the situation at Petit-Château, nothing changes. Mr Secretary of State, there is a major and now very urgent question: what are you going to set up in an emergency (not in a week or two) to welcome people who seek asylum with a minimum of human dignity?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u57	Madam President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to start by reading a tweet that was shared this morning by one of Fedasil's employees: "It's raining and it's even snowing a little bit. A long line of people wait at the gate, some in golden thermal blankets of aid workers. With cardboard and plastic they try to protect themselves from the cold. On the Polish border, you think? No, today in the heart of Brussels." I also got a photo sent to me this morning from paramedics on the scene. Mr Secretary of State, the people on the premises are tired, distraught and yes, they are furious. For more than a month now, the staff of the Klein Kastiltje have been forced to refuse people because there is no room in the shelter network. I know that you wanted to avoid this kind of crisis, because you committed yourself to creating 5,400 buffer points with this government. We fully agree, we need that buffer capacity in order to be able to move quickly and flexibly in the event of fluctuations in asylum applications. For the record, in our prosperous country, nobody should be sleeping on the streets, whether homeless, flood victims or applying for international protection. For the latter, the federal level is competent. It is a legal obligation to provide reception services for asylum seekers. Mr Secretary of State, I know that you and your services are doing their utmost to strengthen the reception network and that you have been caught in speed, but that in the longer term it will be better, that is unfortunately not what Fedasil's staff, the on-site aid workers and people who spend the night on the streets today have to say. That is why I urge you to provide emergency care. When will this emergency shelter be here? What solutions are on the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that these questions are being asked and that the alarm be raised. No one should sleep on the streets, not even homeless or asylum seekers. If you apply for asylum in Belgium, you have the right to receive asylum. In recent months more than 1,000 additional places have been created in a whole list of places, including Geel, Lommel, Oudergem and Koksijde. Some existing centres, such as Namur, Bierset and Florennes, were expanded. In the upcoming works, Leopoldsburg and Damme, among other places, will be added. All these local authorities are sticking their necks out and making efforts to make shelters possible, for which I would first like to thank them. Without them, there is no shelter possible. We need partners, even many partners to get out of the current situation, both federal and local partners. By mid-September, I had already informed the government of the forecasts for the coming period. In Belgium as in other European countries, such as the Netherlands, exactly the same problems arise. It was to be expected with a dramatic situation in Afghanistan, people threatened with famine and others disappearing under the Taliban regime. The consequences of the floods in Wallonia are also, of course, well known. We've all been there in solidarity, all together. Fedasil has also shown solidarity. Fedasil has lost places due to the floods, but has cleared some of its own places for people who lost their homes during the floods in Wallonia. Fedasil's solidarity with those in Wallonia who lost their homes is the same solidarity I expect when asylum seekers need bed, bath and bread. On 17 September, the Council of Ministers decided that several members of the government and their services would assist Fedasil in the creation of a sufficient number of reception spaces. For example, the Minister of Defence has offered the site of Glons in Bassenge for the opening of an emergency reception centre – a centre that we have been working on for several weeks. I understand the problems in the field. The mayor expressed her concerns. The work required to protect the site from fires was carried out and the mayor's requests were met. Fedasil is ready to open the site tomorrow. Of course, it is not easy for the local authorities, but I call on everyone to convince them that we must not wait until the weekend: it is snowing and we must guarantee the reception today. I think everyone – and you too, Mrs Fonck – is of the opinion that we cannot wait until Monday. We need to open up as soon as possible, as soon as possible, tomorrow. There is also, of course, a great need for staff. Open places are worth little if people do not provide enough staff. That's why Fedasil is still looking for staff to man the centres that are open. In the meantime, we sit together with various organisations to provide emergency solutions and to put volunteers to work in the places that are quickly created and provided with sufficient staff. Reference was also made to the structural measures needed. We have also provided them and they are necessary. For example, this government has decided to invest in personnel for asylum services, as Mr Segers has already said. In addition, shorter procedures are provided to reduce the need for reception and a buffer policy to cope with fluctuations. I've been putting my shoulders on this for weeks and months. It's just not gonna work out any more than it did in 2015. That is why we need partners and I am convinced that there are partners. I am therefore particularly pleased with the many questions that have been asked and with the many people who are right to call the alarm. I am therefore convinced that with all those people, and many others, we will not only be able to provide emergency care on the site in Glons tomorrow, but in the coming days, weeks and months will also be able to do all necessary at local level, in cooperation with the federal level, to avoid people sleeping on the streets, snow or no snow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u59	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. Of course, we from Vooruit fully support your intention of immediate action. We are counting on this government to come to immediate results very quickly. We will, of course, follow this very closely. There is no time to lose, because whatever the circumstances, we must never accept people being put out on the streets at freezing temperatures. Mr Secretary of State, I heard you say that if it depends on me, the shelter in Glons will open tomorrow. If it depends on me and Vooruit, of course. I would like to give to Mrs. Matz and the CDH: you deliver the mayor in Glons. You know that we can make a big step forward if the shelter can be opened immediately. I am therefore counting on you to put an end to the misery of the Klein Kastiltje.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u60	Mr Secretary of State, nobody deserves to spend the night on the street. That is why we support you in your policy, especially in your search for emergency care. If emergency care is already available, as we hear, it must also be opened quickly. As far as we're concerned, the shelter in Glons should rather open today than tomorrow. Fedasil's ready. Those places are available. So the shelter needs to open. We count on the commitment of everyone, of every minister, including the defence minister. In the past, it has been proven several times that Defense came forward with places. Each minister must live up to his commitment to finding places and, of course, the local authorities. This is a collective responsibility. Only if we put our hands together can we get out. If we put our hands together, we can make sure no one has to sleep on the street.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u61	Mr Secretary of State, I hear your statements, and above all your commitment to ensure that no one is out at night; I take note of them. We will see in the coming days if the acts follow your statements. I also hear the somewhat controversial comments, it seems to me, which tend to refer responsibility to the local authorities. It is not by adopting political positions here in the House Chamber that any problems that may arise at the local level will be resolved. I expect a secretary of state, and even a government, to put the people involved around the table to find solutions to the problems that arise. This is your job, Secretary of State. Let us end this inhuman and indecent situation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, I welcome your answer, because you also share the urgency that no one should sleep on the street. It's a crisis and it's your responsibility to solve it. I support your call to local authorities whose solidarity you are asking for and your call to other departments like Defence to help. The house burns and when a house burns, one seeks a bucket of water to put out. Or a bucket of water to put out; but one does not seek any more for other buckets of water. In emergency care, it is important to see which infrastructure can be used most quickly. I ask you to listen without taboos to the solutions Fedasil itself offers and to seize the solutions that civil society and citizens' initiatives offer you. You referred to that. The use of volunteers can also ensure that we can deploy infrastructure quickly. Mr Secretary of State, I am counting on you to resolve this crisis, and I wish you every success, so that no one has to sleep on the streets.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u63	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u64	We should have appointed the alternate members of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. We had to appoint the alternate members of the board of directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. In view of the lack of members who have cast their votes, I suggest that we postpone the counting of votes until next week. Since there have been insufficient votes, I propose that we postpone the counting of votes until next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u65	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Samuel Cogolati, Wouter De Vriendt, Stefaan Van Hecke, Séverine de Laveleye, Barbara Creemers, Kristof Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u66	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1429/5) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1429/5) The title has been amended by the committee to "proposal for a resolution calling for the inclusion of the crime of ecocide in international criminal law". The title was changed by the committee to "proposal of resolution asking for ecocide to be included as a crime in international criminal law." The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u67	I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before explaining my group's position on this motion for a resolution, I would like to stress that the N-VA ecology has a high priority. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. For us, it is very important that environmental crimes, i.e. crimes affecting our environment, be dealt with thoroughly. The best proof of this is the steadfastness with which Flemish minister of Environment, Mrs Demir, tackles the PFOS pollution by the company 3M. There is indeed a problem today. Ecosystems are under pressure worldwide. Unfortunately, habitats are disappearing. Biodiversity is often affected and there are many environmental pollutants. International demand is also growing in order to be able to do something about the extortionists who, contrary to international climate efforts, continue to deliberately destroy valuable parts of nature. Since the state reforms and specifically incorporated into the Special Law on institutional reform, the principle has been applied in foro interno, in foro externalo. This means that if someone is internally competent, so within Belgium for a particular matter, he is also externally competent. Environment, water policy and nature conservation are powers of the Länder, i.e. the Regions. The federal level is only competent for residual powers, such as product standards, radioactive waste and a number of other matters. The powers are very clearly separate. It would therefore be nice if everyone at this level, in the Chamber, also respected that division of powers. In my view, the level of the Länder was the most appropriate place to table this resolution, not the Federal Parliament. We see that discussions have already taken place in practice between Flemish Minister of Environment, Zuhal Demir, and Federal Minister of Justice, Vincent Van Quickenborne. Experts were also appointed to draw up a report, the results of which we still have to wait for. The first version of the motion for a resolution was completely different from the one that is now before us. For us, the text has evolved in the right direction because of the many amendments. For the time being, ecocide is not included in criminal law. The change in the title is also significant. Actually, we can say that everything is being pushed a little long. Several things have now been formulated in the conditional wisdom. There is also reference to initiatives and reports to be drawn up, which I mentioned earlier. I would like to thank the MR Group for that, as I did at the committee meeting, because the MR took out the largest mines in this file or at least managed to ensure that we could extend this dossier for a while. That cannot be endless, because we know that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats wants to do something about it before the end of this legislature. Mr Van Quickenborne's report, of course, is not going to last forever, and can therefore not fail to do so. Despite these text improvements, our group still has too many issues in the text, so we are not convinced to vote in favour. I would like to stress once again that this does not mean that we do not care about dealing with environmental crime. However, we must be aware that we must be sparing in the use of terms on -cids. These are almost container concepts, almost slogansque generalizations, of which one does not really know where they begin and certainly not where they end up. For us, it is very important for us to be able to explain scientifically and rationally, without too much ideological fuss, where the dangers lie and what standards should be applied. That is the big problem with the proposal before us. I have a specific question for the authors of the proposal. On the basis of the proposal, the federal government could be brought to court for the construction of new gas plants, which would release tonnes of extra CO2. Is that some kind of ecocide? For many it will be a form of ecocide, because there are many people who will have lung problems because of that additional air pollution. Many people are already dying from air pollution in Europe, so I can imagine that this would not be unthinkable for many. Let me give you a concrete example of what the problem is with proposals such as those before us. In view of everything I have said, our group will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a special moment for me. It's a moving moment. This is the end of an important political fight. In fact, when we started writing the text of this motion for a resolution on the recognition of the crime of ecocide, I asked for the help of Parliament's library, which I asked to find all possible references to the concept of ecocide in parliamentary questions or in texts tabled by Members of this House. The Library of Parliament then replied that it had no documents on the subject, that the concept was still unknown to the battalion. It is wonderful to have been able to turn this little idea, which was non-existent two years ago, into a political reality. It is important to say frankly, to admit that today there is a gap in international criminal law. Why? Because ecosystems are not sufficiently protected by the latter's architecture. Today, we are protected against street robbery, physical assault, corruption, for example. However, the Criminal Code, including the Belgian Penal Code, does not yet adequately protect against the most serious destruction of ecosystems. With this motion for a resolution, which I hope will be voted on by a very large majority this evening, at the end of this plenary session, we are calling on you solemnly to ensure that the law finally comes to the aid of the planet by filling this gap. It is true that there is a question of definition. Mrs Van Bossuyt, it is true that there is a legal definition to define the outline of the concept of ecocide crime. This is a crucial step that was taken just a few months ago, last June. A panel of experts co-chaired by Professor of International Law Philippe Sands, who is very often present at the International Criminal Court in The Hague to defend States in the pursuit of crimes against humanity and crimes of genocide, presented us with a new definition. He told us: "Be careful, we do not aim, through the crime of ecocide, at the passerby who throws a cigarette on the street. We are not aiming, through the crime of ecocide, for a mere accident." There is this notion of moral element, of element of guilt which must be absolutely present. Of course, we remain in the area of criminal law. What are we finally aiming at? We're aiming for serious damage. The damage must always be serious and it is therefore highly damaging to the environment and ecosystems. They must be extended and therefore go beyond a well-defined geographical area. They must also have lasting effects and therefore irreversible damage that cannot be corrected by natural regeneration. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what is amazing is that, through the recognition of this new concept, of this new incrimination of ecocide, we are leaving an approach that is too long anthropocentric and therefore linked to the effects of crimes and damage on man exclusively, man for man, and we are approaching a much more ecological, systemic approach and which finally also recognises the links of our humanity with the nature and ecosystems on which we depend. Christopher Stone is the first professor of law to have dared to take the step and to have asked the question whether trees, nature, rivers could not have access to justice as well. I want to pay tribute to him. Although his name probably doesn't tell you anything, Christopher Stone is an absolutely fascinating and exciting guy. He died just a few months ago and wrote this book in 1972. In the 1970s, this question seemed completely crazy. People laughed at him in law schools. Yet the question had its full meaning and was asked in a very particular context. While the great well-known American company, Walt Disney, wanted to destroy a huge redwood forest to build a ski resort, an environmental association was trying to defend this forest. This environmental association has gone to court. The Southern California Court of Appeal replied that she could not prove absolutely any personal harm and therefore said to her: "Go away, you have absolutely nothing to do here in court!" It is in response to this judicial decision that Professor Stone decided to take another step and to imagine a concept of criminal law that is much closer and much more protective of the environment and ecosystems. I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the question will of course not be settled definitively by means of this resolution, but I think it makes sense at least to ask the question. I'll take an example. Why could a private company with five euros of capital have far more rights than a river like the Scheldt in Belgium? I think the question makes sense. It is ultimately this question of the recognition of the rights of nature that is raised through this text aimed at the recognition of the crime of ecocide. I hear critics and I understand them easily. I understand that recognizing ecocide would be a bit less and less serious than the existing crimes of genocide and crime against humanity. It's funny because when you go back to 1945 and the sources – Raphael Lemkin and Hersh Lauterpacht who were the thinkers behind crimes against humanity and genocide crimes – you could hear the same critics. They were told, "If you recognize the crime of genocide, you're going to make war crimes less serious." Colleagues, it is time to recognize that ecosystems, planet Earth, nature can be victims of serious crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity. That is true, it would be a first since 1945, but the question today is not whether the states will finally take this step. The question is when they will. I believe that today there is a very real political basis. There is something that lives not only in the academic community but also in environmental and climate associations. I hear them and tell them that there is something that lives in civil society today to finally take this step and recognize this crime of ecocide. There is also this answer that I like very much, given in Le Vif/L'express by Françoise Tulkens, a formidable Belgian woman, a great lawyer, judge at the European Court of Human Rights and even vice-president of the Court of Strasbourg. The journalist asks him if it is not a little exaggeration to go consider ecocide at the same level as a war crime. She says, "What is ecocide? It's eco, the house, and cidere, kill. Kill the house. Finally, journalist, isn't killing the house disgusting enough to be considered a crime?" The answer is yes, ladies and gentlemen. I really hope that through this resolution, we will join Françoise Tulkens in this statement that we must now protect more concretely, with the teeth of criminal law, the planet and our ecosystems. I also hear that recognizing ecocides will not prevent them. Here, too, I'm right. Indeed, the crime of murder has existed for centuries in our Criminal Code and unfortunately, we still have to witness murders today. Then what will change? What is the added value? The added value of recognizing the crime of ecocide is twofold. First, there is a symbolic, moral, philosophical dimension that must be assumed, because the Penal Code represents this social and societal order. He said: "Beware! Such behaviour against society will be punished. You may be deprived of your liberty because your behaviour poses a danger to society." I think it is time today, and even urgent, to recognize that when we destroy the planet and the ecosystems on which we depend, yes, we can be punished. When you attack the Arctic, when you dump radioactive waste into the oceans, when you are the author of deforestation in the equatorial forests, whether in the Congo basin or in the Amazon, no, you do not simply attack us in small isolated provinces of Brazil or the Democratic Republic of the Congo. You're attacking the whole planet, our lungs, our commons. Yes, these crimes deserve to be recognized and must – at last – cease to be unpunished. Then there is the instrumental range. I would not like this recognition of the crime of ecocide to remain at the level of a buzzword as they say in English, at the level of a slogan, and to remain a beautiful word in the air. No, this recognition of the new crime of ecocide must also be accompanied by real, concrete effects. This recognition is a new legal tool for the prosecution, the prosecution, to guarantee the protection of the environment. I want to give you an example that you certainly remember: the oil spill caused by the Erika. Hundreds of kilometres of oil-defiled beaches. Terrifiing images of hundreds of thousands of birds killed, wounded, oiled. Total was found guilty of this environmental disaster both in criminal proceedings and in criminal proceedings. It was new. The French Court of Cassation imposed a fine of only 375,000 euros! This is ridiculous! It's nothing for an oil company that makes several hundred billion dollars in profits a year! It is time to impose sanctions commensurate with the dangers posed by these disasters, these environmental disasters. It is time that criminal law finally came to the rescue of the planet and could impose truly dissuasive sanctions to put an end to impunity. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the conclusion. I believe that our small country, Belgium, can be proud this evening to be – if the vote is positive and I very much hope so – the first democratic assembly of a Member State of the European Union to call for its wishes, to ask the federal government for recognition of the crime of ecocide in the Belgian Penal Code and to amend the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court of The Hague. Finally, a particular belgo-belge which I am very proud of, an amendment reinforces this text. I would also like to thank the partners with whom we have worked in the majority in the Committee on External Relations. It proposes a new treaty, a kind of coalition of the willing, a treaty of the most voluntary countries. I'm sure we don't have to hang out. There's an emergency. The climatologists tell us: we have eight years to act to save the climate and avoid a rise of more than 1.5 degrees in the global temperature. It is now moving forward with countries such as Finland, Austria, Maldives and Vanuatu. Island countries are victims of rising waters. Finally, let us return to Caesar what belongs to Caesar. Civil society is particularly well mobilized. The concept of ecocide, I didn't lay it alone. It has existed for years, especially with the crisis of the orange agent in Vietnam in the seventies. He is defended by a French lawyer, Valérie Cabanes, who came to the House a little less than two years ago and helped us write the nuances of this text. We also owe it to Marie Toussaint, the MEP who worked on the climate issue in France. We owe this international mobilization to Polly Higgins, who unfortunately died, but also to Jojo Mheta, the organisation Stop Ecocide and End Ecocide Belgium. I want to say thank you from the bottom of my heart to moms, grandparents, children, young people for the climate. Tonight, I hope that this text can be adopted. Very sincerely, your mobilization, your commitment, your determination to save the planet still makes me believe in politics today, gives me this optimism and hope to believe that we can protect the planet here and now with new tools voted in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal seeks to include the authors, mainly of Ecolo-Green, ecocide, i.e. the deliberate damage to the environment and ecosystems, in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. This would make it a crime that could be brought before the International Criminal Court and condemned by international law. The authors of ecocide also want to make a specific crime in Belgian criminal law. The latter was already provided for in the government agreement of purple green. Even though one other in the proposal before us today has been watered down by amendments, the objective remains valid for the time being. Ladies and gentlemen, as an introduction, I would like to say that the Flemish interest is very much in the interests of the environment and the environment. Fatherly love and respect for our nature, ecosystems and biodiversity go hand in hand, of course. In this spirit, too, we are in favour of severe punishment for deliberate environmental damage. However, this proposal to include ecocide as a separate crime in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court is too far for us. The International Criminal Court is not the right institution and international criminal law is not the right instrument to prosecute damage to the environment. This would, as has already been said, put ecocide on the same list as crimes against humanity, war crimes, genocide and aggression against peace. These listed crimes, for which the International Criminal Court has jurisdiction, are, in our view, far more important than ecocide, or at least the examples listed in the proposal. The list of ecocide cases in the resolution before us cannot be compared at all with those crimes. In many cases, these are environmental disasters of an unintelligible nature. Of course, this often involves negligence on the grounds of commercial interests, but no sensible person can compare this type of crime with the crimes for which the International Criminal Court has jurisdiction. This is not about deliberately attacking ecosystems with the intention of harming or killing people. In our view, proof of deliberate negligence by the pursuit of profit leading to ecocide can also become very difficult in legal terms. Many interested parties will argue that they considered the risk of an environmental disaster to be small or even unaware of the possibility that something serious could go wrong. In our view, that is legal science fiction and at least opens the door to randomness. There is also a dangerous catch when we turn ecocide into a separate crime under the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court. This proposal refers not only to environmental and ecosystem damage but also to climate disruption. As far as we are concerned, this is no less than a step towards binding climate rules through international criminal law, which we fit for. In theory, this could create precedents to penalise companies or politicians who do not follow carbon-neutral climate policy and climate alarmism. That is a start to an international climate court. In this way, the green climate policy in the Paris Agreement and the Green Deal can be enforced through an international criminal court. In fact, according to the authors, greenhouse gases from fossil fuels, aviation, livestock farming and agriculture are not the causes of the largest ecocide the world has ever known, in particular the climate warming you are talking about? The definition of ecocide remains very vague and broad. It is entirely conceivable that the fight against green climate policy will be included in the long term. We believe that this proposal opens the door to the prosecution of natural and legal persons for their CO2 emissions, or even for their opposition to EU and green parties' climate policies. I'd like to ask you where this ends. Is criticism of alarmist climate science going to be banned in the near future under that international penal law? In fact, there is already a dangerous precedent for criminalising the climate debate. The European Court of Human Rights has already taken on a role as a European Climate Court by opening up to climate issues in 2020. Meanwhile, several cases have already been brought by climate activists. The Court spoke of 'human rights for the planet' and had the President give a speech entitled 'Should the Court become the European Climate Court?' The Court also stated that, for its part, it would play its role within the limits of its jurisdiction. Moreover, any debate on climate science was smothered in advance by the Human Rights Court by the statement that no one can legitimately question that we are facing a serious climate emergency. In this way, as Mr Van Bossuyt has said, states can be brought before the Court without being able to argue scientifically that the rhetoric of the climate crisis is nuanced to show that their climate policy is adequate. The assertion that the story of the Anunas and Gretas of this world cannot be broken in a legitimate way also opens the door to criminal sanctions for climate policy that is not satisfactory in the eyes of climate alarmists. The step of illegal criticism of the radical green agenda towards illegal criticism is then quickly taken. There is, therefore, already a slippery slippage about pushing the climate agenda through criminal law. The fact that the proposers also refer to climate disruption in an argument to include ecocide in international criminal law is right to ring loud alarm bells to our group. Therefore, the climate debate, which is currently a political debate, has already been clarified. There is an increasing tendency to criminalise people with different views. This is a movement that we can generally see in the political landscape. The IPCC does not only include alarmists in its ranks, although only they are constantly promoted by media and activists. Judges such as those of the European Court of Human Rights often go along with this without hesitation. May I remind the Greens that the debate on climate change has not been concluded. The science is settled . You say that, but that is for us an easy claim to enforce one's own right. The fact that the climate warms up is an undeniable fact. However, there is still much discussion about the impact of warming and its future consequences at the moment, especially about the extent to which the West can regulate the climate through CO2 reduction, as if we have a thermostat for world temperature. I would like to say nothing about the role of superpolluters and exotics such as China and Africa in the future. There is therefore a need for political and scientific debate on climate change. With such a legalisation of the green climate agenda, we are in favour of any discussion in advance. No one will dare to oppose the opinion hegemony of the radical ecologists, although other attitudes are possible and desirable. Despite all the apocalyptic statements about the end of time, we ourselves and our children certainly have a future. By investing in technology and believing in man's ingenuity, we can overcome all the climate challenges, but not through the dogmatic writing down of green energy sources like nuclear energy, which you are trying to do here, and certainly not through the legal repression of companies and people who stand in the way of the expensive regulation of the Frans Timmermans of this world. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that our group cannot support this proposal at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the content of this motion for a resolution is intended and is, moreover, quite innovative. This is not a scoop, we will support it earlier in our vote. We support the Executive in carrying out an ongoing project, namely the speedy ratification of an international convention, the mediation efforts between parties in conflict or the preparation of a United Nations conference on the crime of ecocide, as well as its inclusion in international criminal law. This concept is in the process of being developed, since its precise definition is currently the subject of numerous work bringing together diplomacy from all over the world. In addition, it also offers a forum for reflection to our academics and experts who are working on the reform of our Penal Code. The Reform Movement wants a distinction to be made between these two approaches. The Committee on Justice must do its part, in particular through hearings, while the Committee on Foreign Affairs must do its part in international matters. Although intellectual coherence will have to emerge when legally binding texts are adopted, we must leave the door open for reform of the Statute of the Criminal Court, for a very long procedure - almost ten years - to the elaboration of an international convention that could ensure its implementation much faster. Colleagues, the philosophical aim is to encourage positive behaviour in order to safeguard our environment, our planet, our ecosystem. It's obvious and urgent. We must encourage, encourage and open our eyes to our behaviors that have a negative impact on the preservation of our planet. Let us be lucid, this approach is not always sufficient. We are now witnessing irreversible damage to our environment. We have a co-responsibility from Australia to our country, from the Eupen hills to the Himalaya mountains, for flora and fauna and the preservation of the seabed. Behaviours must be punished. Repairs must be obtained even if they only mitigate irreparable damage. The international battle must be waged to ensure that the term was included in international law so that the leaders who were entrusted by their people with protecting the natural heritage and who deliberately failed the precepts that should be theirs would be subject to different considerations. Issues such as the limits of State sovereignty or assistance to countries with zones that benefit the entire planet will need to be discussed conceptually or theoretically and will need to be resolved. So we are opening a debate today that looks rich and important. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to conduct this debate in our respective committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is a very important proposal for a resolution, which will have a lot of follow-up, not only in the European Parliament but also in other countries. We take on a beautiful pioneering role. Humanity has no future, if we destroy the environment that protects us, in order to prove natural disasters throughout the world and also in its own country. So the destruction of the Earth should be a crime. When people do irreparable damage to the ecosystem, they cannot be held liable for criminal offences today. We believe that it is necessary for perpetrators to be held responsible. How can we do that? With this motion for a resolution, we are calling for a policy of two sports, both of which are necessary. I support Mr Cogolati in saying that natural disasters can indeed come at us. Think of the oil spill in Nigeria, which has led to oil on land and rivers every day for 60 years, and of the sunken oil tanker Safer in the Red Sea in Yemen. The embassy there, with whom I had contact recently, warned about that ticking time bomb, which could cause a huge natural disaster. Well, such incidents cannot be tolerated and should be contained in criminal law. The traces to be followed are at international level, in this case through the Rome Statute for the International Criminal Court. Through that court we can already prosecute and punish crimes against humanity and genocide. I think ecocide should have a place in that too. Basically CD&V is in favour of that. We have also supported this in the European Parliament. Gross crimes with a devastating impact on our living environment must be dealt with. However, we would like to stress that we must deal with this carefully. The Rome Statute refers to gruesome international crimes. That framework must not, of course, be marginalised or undermined. We have to take that seriously. A clear definition must be drawn up. Not every tree that gets cut down is an international crime. We need to be very clear about what this is about. Only the gross, willful crimes against ecosystems must be punished. That is why we have tabled an amendment aimed at looking at the issue at diplomatic level so that we can proceed in a sensible way. In parallel, a working group should be set up to create a coalition of the willing who want to work with us to create an international draft treaty. That is a very important element in the text. Which brings me to the second track. We have to work on this in accordance with the government agreement - at Belgian level, we have to draw up a legally binding definition that can work inspiringly, including for the international design of the treaty. In doing so, we need to examine the legal possibilities and it is important that Parliament plays a role in drawing up the opinion. When it comes to gruesome and gross crimes, a debate in Parliament is necessary. With the motion for a resolution, we are sending a very important signal that we want a stronger punishment for environmental crimes. Whether through Belgian criminal law or through the Rome Statute, we must push ahead with this. We think it is very important that we have a good, solid legal basis for ecocide. We therefore support Mr Cogolati's initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u73	Madam President, ecocide or no ecocide, this question concerns many international experts. It is therefore a good thing that there is a debate here on the exercise of reflection. Let me be clear: it is particularly important to take effective action now against the climate crisis. Our group always opts for pragmatic solutions, not dogmatic ones. I am convinced that with our know-how, technology and expertise, our country can effectively contribute to the achievement of climate objectives. One can rightly ask the question if one ever decides to recognise ecocide, whether the inclusion in national law would achieve its objective. We have our doubts about that. The new title merely points to international law. We are therefore convinced that the debate must be conducted at international level. We therefore call on the Minister to take initiatives to engage in this debate internationally. Ladies and gentlemen, we will support this motion for a resolution. We will support it because our group's amendments were adopted in committee. I would like to thank all the majority groups for that. The Open Vld Group has replaced the first request. With the first request, we are clearly asking the government to consider, on the basis of opinions, whether or not ecocide can be incorporated into our national law. It is therefore up to the Minister responsible to examine the possibility and opportunity of this in depth first. It is the competent minister, who will ultimately have to judge whether ecocide can be included. That is all the motion for a resolution calls for. My group will support the proposal today because the resolution has been adopted with this clear condition in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, the use of Agent Orange, produced by Monsanto and applied by the US during the Vietnam War, led to massive deforestation and caused terrible cancers among the population. Millions of hectares of jungle have gone into flames in Brazil due to mischief by President Bolsonaro. This has consequences for the survival of indigenous populations in the region and also for the thousands of animal species there. Moreover, deforestation is a catalyst for global warming and therefore has a global impact. In Nigeria, pollution caused by the oil extraction of a Shell subsidiary endangered the health of more than 1 million people. What do all these things have in common? They are all about unlawful acts or actions that are the result of a serious lack of precaution or foresight, in the knowledge that those actions are likely to cause serious, extensive or lasting damage to the environment. The three examples share that description. With this definition we also have the definition of ecocide: serious, extensive or permanent damage to the environment that has been caused intentionally or by a lack of precautionary measures. For Forward, such crimes must be dealt with nationally and internationally. After all, it is also in our own interest that ecocide should be tackled wherever in the world, both at home and abroad, because the protection of the environment is important and even crucial to our survival. That also proves the covid pandemic. After all, Corona has been created by the ever smaller biotope of animals and the shrinking nature, which accelerates the transmission of diseases to humans. The number of pandemics and epidemics is rising. Climate change also shows that the environment and nature need to be better protected, especially in the legal field, both at home and abroad. In the discussion in the committee, the colleagues of the N-VA and the Flemish Interest argued that those responsible for environmental damage can already be held liable and therefore it is not necessary to include ecocide in criminal law at national or international level. If that were the case, we would have to submit that statement to the Vietnamese who tried to prosecute the company Monsanto. They failed to do so. In practice, we also see the three examples quoted - that companies and governments are trying to pass on their responsibilities. Because there is often insufficient legal basis to punish such crimes, they also get away with it. Therefore, those responsible are not punished by criminal law and there is certainly a problem with civil liability in cross-border cases. That is why we are also advocating the obligation of care and national and international legislation in this area. Even in cases for which a legal basis for action has finally been found, judges could only impose fines. What, however, do fines and compensations help if the profits made by companies through the continuation of malpractice substantially offset the fines imposed? However, the environment has been destroyed forever, this damage is irreversible and also affects people's lives: they die of cancer, for example, or have children with severe constraints as a result of the destruction of the environment. This was already the case with the examples mentioned above. Colleagues of the Flemish Interest argue that climate criticism will also be criminalised if we include ecocide in criminal law, which would be the objective of the proposal. They may not have listened carefully to the definition of ecocide in terms of illegal acts or acts resulting from a serious lack of precaution, even if it is known that they will cause serious harm to people and the environment. With their statement they say as much as in the crimes I have described it should not therefore be punished for freedom of expression and ecocide. It must be dared: to people who get cancer, lose relatives because of illness or have a child with a limitation due to the deliberate destruction of the environment or guilty omission, say that it is about freedom of expression and that it will therefore not be done at all. The difference between the Flemish Interest and our party is that we regard the right to a healthy environment as a fundamental human right. That must be protected for us. People need to be protected from governments and companies that exercise their power to deliberately or guiltyly withdraw that fundamental right. That is why we support the motion for a resolution which calls for the inclusion of ecocide in national and international criminal law. The coalition agreement says that work must be done at national level and that experts will be asked to advise on the inclusion of ecocide and femicide in the new Criminal Code. In the meantime, that advice is ready, and we hope that Minister Van Quickenborne will get on with it quickly. A dozen countries have already preceded us and already have national legislation in this area. At international level, the motion for a resolution calls on the Government to consider the diplomatic initiatives that can be taken to amend the Rome Statute on the International Criminal Court on behalf of the Kingdom of Belgium in order to incorporate the crime of ecocide. This would remove an important gap in the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court. This now hardly deals with environmental crimes. However, an amendment to the Rome Statute does not solve everything. Crimes against humanity are still taking place. Not all states are connected either. It would be a very important step forward. We also welcome the fact that Belgium will take the initiative to bring together a group of similar states that will examine the preparation of a new international convention on ecocide. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats believes that this is a strong signal to increase the pressure on the subject at international level. That is why we support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that the destructive behaviour on a large scale in our environment be punished much more severely. This is an observation on which we all agree, I hope, at any rate. But to be quite frank with you, I must admit that I do not know what to think about the text of the motion for a resolution that is before us today. Indeed, the government agreement states that "the government will study and take diplomatic initiatives to limit the crime of ecocide, i.e. the deliberate destruction of ecological systems". I wonder what the precise purpose of this motion for a resolution is and, above all, how this text actually contributes to this important fight. Indeed, while this fight is important, the content of the motion for a resolution is relatively light. This text envisages examining what could be done in Belgian criminal law. It also plans to move the lines internationally. Unless I am mistaken, that is what the Minister of Foreign Affairs is already doing, unless she has no confidence in the initiatives she has already taken. If that were the case, I would better understand the content of that text. It seems to me that this text is based on principles and we have clearly positioned ourselves in relation to these principles before the tabling of this text. It also seems to me that the government agreement was already clear on this matter. You will therefore understand, ladies and gentlemen, that the tabling of a motion for a resolution to ask the government to take initiatives that it is already taking leaves me rather puzzled. That being said, it is a nice text that everyone, it seems to me, can support. We will support it, but it is true that we expect something else. Above all, we expect strong decisions, concrete applications and not just texts that ultimately serve communication more but do not make concrete and strong progress. We will vote for it, but it is true that I call on the government to voluntarily implement its agreement. We will support the government and, in particular, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is advancing in his international contacts. We will support the progress that it can achieve if, indeed, it makes it possible to make progress in terms of ecocide and therefore in favour of our environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, the damage caused today by the massacres of endangered species or by overfishing, oil spills, deep seabed mining, massive deforestation, intensive livestock farming, plastic pollution or the dumping of chemicals into our soil or into our waters is no longer to be demonstrated. This damage, which has been said to be most often irreversible, is all the more serious as it is in addition to the damage already caused by global warming on our biodiversity, on the destruction of our ecosystems on which we all depend for our survival. This situation justifies, for a wide range of experts, associations and also for Mrs. Françoise Tulkens, Honorary Judge of the European Court of Human Rights, the inclusion of this crime of ecocide as a fifth crime under international law in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court alongside crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and crimes of aggression. This crime already has a legal definition which is the prerequisite for its integration into our legislative arsenal, both at national and international level, since the recent report of international experts defined this ecocide as "an illegal and arbitrary act committed knowing the real likelihood that these acts will cause widespread or lasting damage to the environment". We therefore need not only an element of fact, of course, but also, as Mr Cogolati rightly pointed out at the moment, an intentional element for this offence to be recognised and penalized. The federal government had also already committed itself in the Vivaldi agreement to study the inclusion of this ecocide in the Penal Code. We could therefore legitimately question the added value of this motion for a resolution. I believe, in fact, that what initially constitutes, with this government agreement, an obligation of means, must now become, following the report by the experts and the adoption of this motion for a resolution, an obligation of result. We know very well that the recognition of the legal qualification of ecocide will unfortunately not automatically mean that multinational companies guilty of this crime will be inclined to suddenly change their way of functioning and thus to recognize their responsibilities. I do, however, allow myself to believe in the deterrent force of criminality, especially if Parliament is now playing this role as a lever for other countries. In any case, our Penal Code has this role to tell society at some point what is unacceptable, whether a crime is committed against human or animal species or, a fortiori, against their habitat. In concrete terms, the large-scale pollution generated by the chemical company in Zwijndrecht, Flanders, if proven, could therefore be described as ecocide and punished as such. This motion for a resolution rightly adopts a two-pronged approach: on the one hand, the introduction of ecocide in our Belgian Penal Code and, on the other hand, our country's initiative at diplomatic level. Our country, a pioneer in the field of human rights, must be proactive in order either to amend the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court or to initiate a new international convention on the punishment of the crime of ecocide. This dual approach is fundamental and indispensable, and it reflects a voluntarism that deserves to be supported and encouraged. That is why I would like to warmly thank the civil society that has mobilized and is still mobilizing today, but also the authors of this motion for a resolution, who gave their voice by introducing this text to Parliament. I would like to say to them, with great enthusiasm, that, of course, my group will support this very important text with conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u77	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u78	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u79	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Benoît Piedboeuf, Kattrin Jadin, Emmanuel Burton.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u80	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur was Mr Parent, who referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u81	Madam President, on the one hand, this legislative proposal aims to modernise the organisation of De Munt and the National Orchestra, which we certainly agree with, but on the other hand, it also has a part that aims to make more radical changes, in particular the possibility of participating in production companies, in order to 'tax-heel'. Of course, we have nothing against 'tax-healing' in itself, but we do object to the creation of subsidiaries for this purpose, which therefore escape political control. In our view, De Munt and the National Orchestra are themselves transformed into production companies so that they can claim their own tax shelters. This happens in Flanders in that way, with the Flemish art institutions. It is also problematic for us that these subsidiaries have already been set up in fact, contrary to the law, which now has to be rectified retroactively with this legislative proposal. Madam President, for these reasons our group will vote against.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u82	Madam President, the Flemish Members of the Committee on Mobility and Public Enterprises regret that this proposal was not dealt with in the Committee on Finance, our committee cannot of course do so, but it is essentially a financial operation. This legislative proposal is twofold. The first part contains an update, textual adaptation of old legal texts, which we obviously have no problem with. However, this part is being thrown into a pile with a second part of the proposal, where, as has just been said, it is a financial operation. Since the Royal Muntschouwburg and the National Orchestra of this country are currently legally outside a system of tax shelter, in both cases they have chosen to establish subsidiary entities. This has already happened in the past. It is through the creation of those subsidiary entities and through those subsidiary entities that one can avoid the legal obstacles to the use of the tax shelter system. In short, the two mentioned federal institutions have smelled money. This bill must be implemented. For the Flemish Interest, the lack of control over those subsidiaries is not acceptable. Nor is it acceptable for this proposal to facilitate retroactivity until early 2017. For these reasons, the Vlaams Belangroep will not approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, culture is an essential element in our society. A source of wonder, it is at the heart of exchanges between men. Federal cultural institutions offer our country and our artists the opportunity to radiate at the national and international levels. Our bill aims to modernise the texts relating to two of our federal cultural institutions: the Royal Mint Theatre and the National Orchestra of Belgium. This text provides a series of updates on the organization and structure of the two institutions. It's a kind of grooming of texts. Reference is still made to the ministries of national education and culture, which no longer exist. It is therefore necessary to replace this reference with a reference to the Minister who has federal cultural institutions in his or her jurisdiction. The requirements for artistic and technical excellence of the Royal Mint Theatre include a mission to train the various professions of the institution. The absence of musicians in the enumeration seems to be an oblivion to which our text remedies. With regard to the tax shelter "scenery arts", the Act of 25 December 2016 explicitly provides for the possibility for federal cultural institutions to benefit from this system, which allows to subsidize culture with private funding. However, the current law does not allow the two institutions concerned to access the tax shelter. It is therefore also necessary to update the law in order to frame the establishment of branches in the form of ad hoc structures for financing from private capital. For the National Orchestra, the subsidiary was created and the statutes of the National Orchestra Productions were deposited on 22 November 2009. That is why, with our legislation, which I hope will also receive your full support. In any case, I thank you for your help and I commend the work of my colleague and group leader Benoît Piedboeuf in the Finance Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u84	Madam President, we also think it is important to support culture, but we do not think it is the right way. That tax shelter structure is actually a privatisation of cultural policy. The tax shelter leverage allows private companies to make significant profits without the least cultural purpose. Net returns can reach almost 10%. On Google you will find various advertisements that should attract investors to certain cultural projects. It has become a bid of returns. Our culture is thus in danger of becoming an investment product. Within the cultural world there are many supporters of the tax shelter, given the weakness of the existing subsidy scheme. It is often the only source of income they can raise in order to develop their cultural projects. The logic should be that the government collects taxes and uses some of them to grant subsidies in order to allow all cultural sectors to work outside the market logic. With the tax shelter one does the opposite. Tax reductions are granted to companies, which reduces government revenue. For example, the government has less and less resources to finance culture. As public subsidies are insufficient, cultural players seek other sources of funding and ask companies to act as sponsors. Through the tax shelter, the government is going to grant tax reductions to the companies that do cultural sponsorship, and that is how the circle is round. In this way culture is privatized. Through their choice of which works they finance, the companies decide which creations are or are not made. In the end, they record the cultural programming. Thus, the cultural sector is subject to market logic. The cultural players who refuse to submit to it will simply no longer be financed. In the case of the federal institutions concerned, De Munt and the National Orchestra, the federal government should better finance them instead of handing out fiscal gifts to the investors, who put money into the subsidiaries of those institutions. The costs of the tax shelter scheme are for the State. That is why we will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u85	Madam President, I was hesitant to react, but at some point we have to get out of ideology and return to the realities of the cultural sector. The introduction of the Tax Shelter did not lead to a decline in public policies on culture. He has supported the sector of pre-productions and productions in the performing and cinema arts. Since the beginning of the crisis, the public authorities have invested several hundred million in the Communities but also at the federal level, in emergency measures and in measures for the redeployment of the cultural sector. It is wrong to make the opposite impression and this work must continue. We need to support the cultural sector in its redeployment. The Tax Shelter will contribute to this, including at the federal level. To oppose it is also a desire to weaken the cultural sector and our federal cultural institutions. We can't share that vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u86	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u87	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (505/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (505/5) The title was amended by the commission to "proposal for a law amending the Act of 19 April 1963 establishing a public institution called "Royal Mint Theatre" and amending the Act of 22 April 1958 on the status of the National Orchestra of Belgium". The title was changed by the Committee to "Proposal for a Law amending the Law of 19 April 1963 establishing a Public Institution called "Royal Muntschouwburg" and amending the Law of 22 April 1958 on the Statute of the National Orchestra of Belgium." The bill has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u88	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u89	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Laurence Zanchetta, Jean-Marc Delizée, Mélissa Hanus, Joris Vandenbroucke, Gitta Vanpeborgh.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u90	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Verhaert, who refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u91	The objective of the proposal is highly legitimate. Families in which children with disabilities grow up are effectively experiencing numerous problems regarding the distance between their home address and the school. Not rarely does this lead to unacceptable long journey times with all the negative consequences they have, as they were described in the text of the proposers. A few weeks ago, this problem was still an item in the media. Question is about the present bill providing the solution to the problem outlined. I'm not convinced of that. We have had a debate on the proposal in committee, and we have even taken the time to have a second reading and to request a note from the legal services, which has led to numerous amendments to repair the initial text. The authors have also made use of this, which has led to the text before us today. So it's a text that's definitely legit. However, the key question is whether this bill will solve the problem outlined. I am not convinced of this, because the root of the problem lies in the geographical distribution of schools and, as far as we are concerned, in part also in the fear that the proposed regulation will make the difference even more unclear in the bus lane regime on the one hand and the particular overpassable beds on the other. This is also highlighted in a number of opinions. So it might have been useful to integrate this into a global revision of the road code, one of the important ambitions of the Vivaldiregiering Agreement. That is why our group will be abstaining in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u92	Madam Chair, I would like to thank the authors of the proposal, particularly for their tenacity in the face of the legislative complexity surrounding this subject and our Road Traffic Code. The context lends itself well to the adoption of this text, since tomorrow we will be celebrating the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. I remind you of the facts. Today, 1,500 children with disabilities spend several hours in transportation to reach school. As has been said, the distance between the children's home and the school is generally very long, with several hours spent in transport. This sometimes involves getting up daily at 5:30 a.m. or 6:00 a.m. without being sure to arrive at school on time. It is a stress and a precariousness that are added for these already severely weakened children. To combat this injustice and improve this situation, several associations have been campaigning and mobilizing for the past ten years. The work is carried out in particular at the level of the Regions. In this regard, I welcome my colleague Matthieu Daele's unwavering commitment to the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the Walloon Region. The proposal and the measure adopted concerning a possible facility for the transport of children with disabilities provide only a partial response to the difficulties of the movement of these children. Moreover, the proposal does not aim to solve this problem completely. However, this facility could reduce travel times particularly in the context of saturated agglomerations at peak hours. It is therefore a welcome step forward and ease to alleviate these children and their accompanying children and to strengthen equality between each child. In addition, this measure calls on us to collectively continue the work against car congestion in order, in particular, to leave the road to the users who need it most. Finally, we recall article 22ter of the Constitution, which states that every person with disabilities has the right to full inclusion in society, including the right to reasonable accommodation. This proposal discussed today contributes to the strengthening of this right and to a more inclusive Belgium. That is why I would like to thank the authors of the proposal again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Parent has just pointed out, the movement of disabled children to and from school is all too often synonymous with suffering. It is unfortunately the reality of thousands of children that Unia, the General Delegate for the Rights of the Child and the field associations have been denouncing for several years. This situation is unbearable. No child should spend four hours, sometimes more, on a bus every day of the week. And certainly not those who already have to adapt to a society that has not been thought of according to their disability. Add to this the lack of comfort, the age of the equipment, a poorly trained staff, and you come to a situation that is neither more nor less related to abuse. Unia even explains that some children are developing real school phobias and that others are seeing their state of health deteriorate, leading to school absences for increasingly frequent medical reasons. In this reality, we also imagine the pain of parents, for whom there is no other solution, even for those who carry their disabled child themselves. This represents an additional social, financial, family or professional burden. We also understand very well that, in such circumstances, some parents reluctantly decide to drop out of school. There is no need to clarify the suffering of this situation. Our federal jurisdiction is limited to resolve this major problem, against which we do not have the ideal solution. However, there are opportunities. As a result, bus and tram sites are becoming more and more popular in large cities. These routes have significantly increased the commercial speed of public transport in order to provide an alternative to congestion caused by cars. Therefore, we propose that school transport of disabled people can benefit from these own sites. If, as we hope, our bill is passed, children will gain valuable time every day – a benefit for their well-being and health – while the impact on public transport will be limited. I am aware, of course, that this bill does not regulate everything. She's not a solution to everything. The schooling of disabled children is a complex issue. In the long run, we need to move towards inclusive education that will make remote specialized schools an exception, but we are not there yet. We also know that this is not a federal jurisdiction. In the meantime, we need to alleviate the pain these children experience, several hours a day, every day, on our roads.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, the purpose of this legislative proposal is undoubtedly noble. However, the solutions provided are limited, too limited for Flemish Interest. During the discussion at the committee meeting, most speakers agreed that an important part of the solution should be sought at the level of the Regions, but it does not seem to be successful. Yet here in this House, too, we are missing an opportunity, in particular to open this proposal to all school transport vehicles, as was recommended by Centrex. The same institution was convinced that this extension would not cause congestion on the particularly crowded beds, as the number of vehicles used for school transport is rather limited. Unfortunately, the amendment to that effect, tabled by Flemish Interest, could not count on the support of the majority or of PVDA. More children could have been helped. Applicants chose to introduce a new vehicle type, school vehicles for the carriage of persons with disabilities. This type of vehicle did not exist before, as noted by the Council of State and VIAS. That new vehicle type was thus created and will be defined by an adapted signalization. Centrex is right to ask whether this is ethically justified. Centrex also expressed concerns about enforcement in its opinion. The term "persons with disabilities" or "persons with disabilities" can be interpreted. Do those persons with disabilities have, for example, a European disability card or is there another indication? Is the presence of one such person on the bus sufficient, should it be half, or all passengers? In our view, the provisions of Article 3 of this proposal do not respond sufficiently to those comments. Yet the majority pushed through. Only the question of a second reading, with a corresponding legislative note from the Chambers, could be somewhat slowed down. That note finally made it necessary to amend almost all the previously adopted provisions of this bill. All these elements lead to reflection on the way in which this bill operates. In my view, the noble purpose of this proposal deserved better. The Flemish Interest Group will therefore abstain in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u95	Madam President, I would like to thank the authors of this very interesting and timely proposal on the eve of International Day for Persons with Disabilities. The global crisis related to covid-19 still demonstrates how indispensable inclusion of disability is. At the federal level, the policy on persons with disabilities is intended to be proactive at the level of the government agreement. The measures for persons with disabilities concern several aspects: access to the labour market, in particular in the public sector, specific needs and access to the various services of persons with disabilities, mobility and accessibility, whether they are SNCB or other means of transport. With regard to the bill we are voting today, the MR welcomes the fact that the transport of persons with disabilities to schools is a priority with the possibility of using these public transport routes, known as clean sites. This possibility will offer a solution and will obviously shorten the travel time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u96	Madam President, six o'clock a.m. so long as children in special education are on the bus every day. My mother's heart is bleeding. It is unacceptable and it is child abuse. This bill is a small step in the right direction to tackle the problem. In practice, in our opinion, it will not help much. The reserved bus beds and bus lanes are usually only found in the cities. Children from the more rural areas will not benefit as much. I also got the remark from bus drivers and bus sectors that they already use the bus bed sometimes. They didn't know they weren't supposed to use them. In other words, buses will still have to drive back three hours a day and three hours a day. The levers to tackle the problem are a competence of the Regions. It is therefore particularly regrettable that the Flemish level did not want to approve the PVDA resolution. After all, this resolution could only have improved. The resolution in the Flemish Parliament stated that pupils can only sit on the bus for a maximum of 120 minutes in special education per day, as requested by the Children's Rights Commission. However, the N-VA, Open Vld and CD&V voted this out. We will support the bill, but we believe that it offers only a small solution to the many problems of children who are on the bus for so long.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u97	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Zanchetta for her initiative, which she has introduced here. Our group has not hesitated for a moment to support it immediately. As a number of Members have already pointed out, the proposal seeks, within the limited powers remaining at the federal level, to address the problem of student transport, which takes far too much time in a number of sectors. We are also ensuring that student transport for pupils with disabilities can make use of particularly over-rideable beds known as bus lanes. Mrs Vindevoghel, of course you are right that these bus routes are mainly or almost exclusively found in urban and metropolitan areas, and that perhaps only there can be substantial savings in time, by allowing buses to run over those jobs. It is, of course, up to the regions to use sufficient resources and vehicles to ensure that pupils do not have to spend hours on the road. Unfortunately, the Flemish Region is in a shameful state of default here. I find it incomprehensible that in a rich region like Flanders children have to sit in a bus for 4, 5 or 6 hours in order to exercise their right to education. I find that incomprehensible, and I am glad that we can offer a partial solution with some creativity. For it is true, Mr Toventors, that this bill has undergone a whole procedure, which has led to improvements. That was the purpose of the parliamentary procedure. With the necessary creativity we could make maximum use of our powers and yet try to find a solution to this problem at least in urban and metropolitan areas. But this certainly does not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u98	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u99	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1770/9) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1770/9) The title has been amended by the Commission to "proposal for a law amending the Royal Decree of 1 December 1975 on the General Regulation on the Police of Road Traffic and the Use of Public Roads with a view to enabling the school transport of disabled persons to use the special crossing sites". The title was changed by the Committee to 'draft legislation amending the Royal Decree of 1 December 1975 laying down general rules for the police of road traffic and the use of public roads in order to open up the special overcrowdable beds for the school transport of persons with disabilities'. The bill has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u100	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u101	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Eliane Tillieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u102	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur was Mr Aouasti, who referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u103	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1994/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1994/4) The bill has two articles. The bill has 2 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u104	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u105	Not related Without report Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Kristof Calvo, Khalil Aouasti, Philippe Pivin, Nawal Farih, Patrick Dewael, Melissa Depraetere, Guillaume Defossé, Egbert Lachaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u106	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u107	Just now I listened with admiration to Mr Cogolati's intervention on his text on ecocide. Our Parliament is doing pioneering work in this area. That text is of global significance. There was even an almost historic mood. This text is of a slightly different order from that of Mr Cogolati, but whoever does not honor the little one is not able to resist the big one. It is important to appreciate the little things in life, especially the little things in political life. Sometimes things happen in the event of revolution. Big steps are rather rare in politics, even when it comes to the political rules of the game. If small steps are taken, we must also celebrate and underline them. This text is one of those and the text on the declaration of mandates and the property declaration for district officials is one of those. I will therefore deal with these two texts together. The text before us is a good step, a step which must be seen together with other initiatives. It is a step that will ensure that young people can also be candidates for the European elections in 2024. Today, the minimum age for the European Parliament was at least 21 years. That is the only level for which the age was still 21 years old. With this bill, we're taking it to 18 years. For the Chamber and the Senate, that had been happening for a while, since 2014. Now we will ensure that the minimum age is also increased to 18 years for the European level. It will at least give people the chance to become a candidate for the European Parliament more quickly. This should be considered together with the initiatives taken by this majority to bring the electoral age for the same election from 18 to 16 years. These two measures together rejuvenate European politics. There are two choices that are pro-Europe, pro-politics and pro-young people. I am very pleased that we have been able to do this together with the majority of my fellow Members. It's a nice step forward. The text that is to come is actually also a small significant step. We already have a declaration of mandates and assets from many politicians and managers. However, this has not yet been the case for the people who take up mandates in the districts. That's gonna change now, when it gets approved. These two legislative proposals take steps forward in the area of democratic renewal. Our group hopes that this will be part of a long series. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their excellent cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been pointed out, this type of initiative is indispensable in the context of democratic renewal, which must not be merely a slogan. I'd like to share with you some funny anecdote. I am quite proud to be a co-signator of this text because, a few years ago, I was proposed to be a candidate in the Senate elections. At the time, when I was not 21 years old, I had not been able to introduce myself. If that had not been the case, I might have found myself on other benches that would have been red rather than green. I would like to say in a humorous way that the text under consideration is important because it makes it possible to reduce the age of eligibility of all Members of the European Parliament to 18 years. Indeed, there was no reason why a higher age limit should continue to exist. For my group, it was essential to remove this difference. Beyond the lowering of this minimum age, a message is being sent, as part of this democratic renewal, to our young people by making them more involved, from the age of 18, in political and social life, whether at regional, federal or European Union level. The last elections in 2019 have also shown an increase in youth participation. Different movements involve more and more young people who are increasingly involved in the life of our society. It is therefore normal for their voices to be heard in various circles. Contrary to what can sometimes be said, young people are not disinterested in public or political matters. On the other hand, I would like to point out that lowering the age of eligibility must continue to be part of a framework which, for my party, is crucial. I am thinking here of the obligation to vote. As was mentioned yesterday in the Committee on the Constitution, this framework on the obligation to vote is important because it makes it possible to involve everyone and to make it known that this obligation to express oneself contributes to society. The study of the Cevicol of the ULB and POLI of the VUB, which was presented this week in the Chamber, has demonstrated this again: the involvement of our young people is important. Through the adoption of this bill by our Assembly, we are taking a step not only towards democratic renewal, but also towards our youth and we are taking a strong step towards the inclusion of this category of citizens in European issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the MR Group is co-signatory to this text through our colleague Phlippe Pivin. We are pleased that this bill has been adopted unanimously in the Committee on the Constitution. Indeed, lowering the age of eligibility in the European elections to 18 is excellent news. This is already the case for other elections held at other levels in Belgium, such as the communal and federal elections. This is also the case in the majority of the Member States of the European Union. This distinction between the European elections and other elections made no sense, especially since the policies decided by the European Union have a significant impact on our internal legal order. They often have a very concrete impact on young people. We know that more than 80% of our legislation comes from the European legal order. It is therefore logical that young people, from the moment of their majority, also have the opportunity to be elected to the European Parliament to discuss all these issues. It is therefore very positive to allow young people to take part in these debates and decisions. Giving them the opportunity to stand as a candidate from the age of 18 is also a strong signal that, I hope, will motivate young people to mobilize even more for future elections. In this context, my group welcomes the proposal that young people, from the age of 16, should be able to register to vote and vote in the European elections. Opening the possibility for young people from the age of 18 to stand for election to the European Parliament will undoubtedly stimulate the arrival of new motivated figures who want to take up the issues at European level. For example, I have learned that the youngest Member of Parliament in the history of the European Parliament, 21 years old, is Danish and was elected in the last elections in 2019. I have also seen that, for the past five years, the average age of a Member of the European Parliament has risen from 53 to 49.5 years. We are therefore witnessing a rejuvenation of the European Parliament. Far from me, however, the intention of wanting to plead for a gameism. We must not go into this aspect of things. The main aim must be to have parliaments that are as representative as possible of all the ages of the population. In this respect, there is no upward age limit to be a candidate, and that is very good. Let the voter make his or her choice. Therefore, unsurprisingly and in a spirit of democratic renewal, the MR Group will support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I am the oldest Member present here. I do not want to intervene here for the interests of our somewhat gray population, but for our young people, I like to do so with great conviction. For us, the bill is signed by the youngest member of our group, Nawal Farih. I would like to thank all the colleagues in this House, the majority and the opposition, sincerely for their good cooperation on this bill. Together, we have made democratic renewal a spearhead. With the adoption of this proposal, we are taking another step forward in this respect. A little history, ladies and gentlemen, I like that. As early as 1993, the age of running for municipal elections was reduced to 18 years. In 2004 the Community and Regional Parliaments followed. In 2014, the Constitution was eventually amended, as Mr Calvo said, so that the age of election was 18. Only for the European Parliament did the age of running remain at 21 years. There is no good reason for this, which is why it is only logical that we should use the opportunity today to reduce the age of election to 18 for the European Parliament as well. CD&V believes that we should do everything we can to give young people politically interested the opportunity to make their voice heard and to stimulate less politically interested young people to think about politics consciously. That is why our 2019 election programme included that we advocate the introduction of voting rights from the age of 16. Moreover, our majority will shortly be presenting a proposal which will enable us to do so before the elections to the European Parliament. In this sense, the legislative amendment before us today is even more pressing. After all, it would be awesome to reduce the age of voting rights in the European Parliament elections to 16 in order to give young people the opportunity to hear their voices, but at the same time to leave the age of running only for the European Parliament at 21 for no good reason. If we want to involve young people in politics, we must not only ensure that they are allowed to vote, but also that, if they go to the polls, they can vote for peers. In this way, we give them the signal that their generation can really weigh on decision-making, in this case in the European Union. Our group is proud that we are working with you to involve young people and young adults more closely in politics. Hopefully, this could be the start of many more such initiatives. Our group will therefore be pleased to approve this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to be very long because many things have already been said. However, I would like to return to this text which I had the honour of co-signing. What we are proposing is to correct an anomaly or at least a form of anachronism that still regulates the organisation of elections to the European Parliament today. Mr Briers has just reminded him. In 1993, the age of eligibility for municipal and provincial elections was lowered to 18 years, in 2004 for the Parliaments of the federated entities and in 2014 at the federal level. All that remained was the elections for the European Parliament, which remained inexplicably reserved for candidates aged 21 and over. What could be the justifications that would prevent us from being elected at 18 years of age but not at European level? Neither the technicality of the dossiers nor the need for a certain maturity nor the possible family and personal constraints which this mandate would entail would be greater in the European Parliament than at our level of power or at the level of the federated entities. It was therefore time to opt for uniformity with regard to the elections held in our territory. In doing so, we will also join the majority of the Member States of the European Union where the age of eligibility of 18 is actually the norm. As Mr Aouasti has said, I would like to say that this vote is a message. In recent years, we have seen strong demonstrations of the political vitality of our country's young people. Major demonstrations were organised, climate strikes, initiatives to support undocumented people, debates, actions of civil disobedience sometimes, communication campaigns on social networks and I am passing. Each of these actions carried in it this watermarked message: "Take us seriously! We have a word, we have ideas, we have convictions, we are concerned." Today, by lowering the age of eligibility, we reply that we know that they are able to do so and that they have resources to assume responsibilities, that they are ready to take charge of things themselves and to represent Belgian citizens. Of course, this is only a very partial and very insufficient response to this thirst for policy and change. We will have to show much more openness. I am thinking of lowering the voting age that will occupy us in the coming weeks, but also of all the measures that will allow us to open the doors and windows of this Parliament, to renew our way of making politics more inclusive, more citizen, younger, more original. Nevertheless, I take this text as a first small signal. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, as in committee, to make this gesture, all together, today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u112	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u113	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2025/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2025/3) The Commission has decided to initiate proceedings under Article 93 (2) of the EEC Treaty in respect of aid granted by the Federal Republic of Germany in the form of aid granted by the Federal Republic of Germany in the form of aid granted by the Federal Republic of Germany in the form of aid granted by the Federal Republic of Germany in the form of aid granted by the Federal Republic of Germany in the form of aid granted by the Federal Republic of Germany in the form of aid granted by the Federal Republic of Germany in the form of aid granted by the Federal Republic of Germany in the form of aid granted by the Federal Republic of Germany in the form of aid granted by the Federal Republic of Germany in the form of aid granted by the Federal The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee to "draft legislation amending the Act of 23 March 1989 on the election of the European Parliament with a view to determining the age of 18." The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u114	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u115	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u116	Madam Chair, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u117	We also need Mr Leysen's oral report following the committee that was held earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u118	Madam President, Mr Leysen is on his way. He's coming...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u119	If Mr Leysen is unable to come forward, I would like to improvise the oral report, but he was the one who proposed his candidacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u120	Pending the presence of Mr Leysen, I propose to move on to the next point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u121	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u122	Madam President, that title is indeed quite a sandwich. I will have to report orally because we only held the discussion and the vote in committee yesterday. There is therefore no written report available. First, Mr Verhelst intervened because she was the main proposer of the proposal on the table. It briefly explained the legislative proposal and pointed out its necessity and urgency. I then took the floor for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I referred to the number and to the unorthodox approach of the government. I also asked questions about the retroactive entry into force of the proposal. I also asked how the bill relates to the ministerial decision of the coronauchers. I have also asked how communication to consumers is provided for. I then proposed an amendment aimed at finding a solution for travel operators who did provide reimbursement before the loan was available. Mr Vicaire then intervened for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. He acknowledged that the government was too late but knows that to the long negotiations due to the attitude of the insurance sector. He pointed out that the government is mainly responsible to consumers rather than to the travel sector. He also reported that he would not support the N-VA amendment, but he would support the bill. Mr Prévot then intervened for the PS Group. It also acknowledged that the government was late and also pointed to the long negotiations with the insurance sector and the late opinions. He also said that the PS Group would support the proposal. Mr Van Lommel then intervened for the Flemish Interest Group. He also referred to the number of the government and to the unorthodox approach to this issue. He confirmed my comments and pointed out the legal uncertainty of the proposal. He said that the Flemish Interest Group would support the N-VA amendment, as would the legislative proposal itself. Then Mr Reuter of the MR Group intervened, who said that it was a good thing that the amendment was being made and that she would support the proposal. Mrs Dierick then intervened for the CD&V group, who acknowledged that the method was not fate but stated that she would support the proposal. It also questioned the number of applications submitted. Afterwards, Mr D'Amico intervened for the PTB group, who was aware that the approach was not exactly smooth. He did support the proposal. Mr Depraetere of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has also briefly intervened and expressed her support for the proposal. Mr Maxime Prévot then came before the cdH group, who reiterated his support for the content of the bill. He denounced the working method and the lateness and pointed out that colleague Fonck had long asked for a coronavoucher bank. He questioned whether it was a federal competence and asked whether the Länder had been consulted. He also asked a question concerning the postponement of repayment after 31 December, along with a number of other questions. Then came the answers from the government representatives. At first, Minister Dermagne spoke, pointing out that the negotiations started months ago but lasted a long time. He said that the system that is ahead is okay for the Regions and also gave an answer to the technical questions that were asked. After that, Secretary of State De Bleeker intervened, who stated that the system was primarily there to safeguard the rights of the consumer and that the general system of insolvency will be reviewed in the future. Then I came in again, pointing out to Mr Vicaire that it was a pity that he could only show understanding for the consumer and not for the affected travel sector. I also expressed regret that a number of questions had not been answered. Then Minister Dermagne replied that the amount of the loan was based on estimates within the sector. He also said that a bill takes precedence over an MB, because a question had been asked about it, and that the government's retroactivity had been checked by the legal service. He said that implementation and transparency had been communicated. Finally, the vote was taken. There was unanimity on the whole proposal, i.e. on Articles 1 to 11. The N-VA and the Flemish Interest Groups voted in favour of the N-VA amendment, but all other members of the committee voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u123	Thank you for the report, Mrs Van Bossuyt. You may now make your speech as a member of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we had a wide-ranging discussion with the members of the government. We have also had several opportunities to ask questions about the dossier, both in plenary and in committee. I announced the file yesterday in committee as the file on the coronavoucherbank, but it is actually almost the saga of the coronavoucherbank and we can now turn it into the shameful saga of the coronavoucherbank. Everyone agrees that the way in which the dossier was drawn up and to be approved by Parliament was very bizarre and unorthodox. Madam President, you yourself referred to the fact that the proposal was originally made by an amendment to a draft law on explosives. Amendments should normally relate to the draft law in question. The only link we see between a bill on explosives and what is ahead today is the fact that the entire file on the coronavoucherbank itself has also become explosive. Following the adoption of the amendment to the draft law, we asked Minister Dermagne a question in plenary because the date provided for in the draft law was 16 November. After that date, it appeared that we had only received the opinion of the European Commission the day before. It confirmed that this was not unlawful State aid. So those dates were already obsolete. I asked Minister Dermagne how the adjustment of those dates would take place, in particular whether this would happen again through Parliament. There was a positive answer, but to our surprise we had to find out a few days later that new data were communicated on the website of the FPS Economy. We learned from the travel sector itself that these new dates were also communicated to them. So all this happened before it was passed in Parliament. Once again, Parliament was pushed aside. So it was at least an unorthodox way of working. It's actually completely incomprehensible. In politics, unforeseen events often occur, but this was perfectly foreseeable. It was about vouchers issued in March for a period of three months, which were valid for one year. After that year, the consumer had six months to request reimbursement. It was therefore a very clearly defined period of one year and six months. That is why our group put a proposal on the table more than a year ago, for which we asked for urgency. The majority didn't think that was important, she said there was no urgency. Now we see the situation we have come to. It is too late and too late seems a bit like the mantra of this government. We have seen this with regard to the booster shot and we see it in the decision on nuclear energy. Will nuclear energy be part of our energy mix now or not? That decision had to be made in November, it is today 2 December and there is still no idea. Now the whole saga around the coronavoucherbank can also be added to that list. Yesterday, questions were asked. How many applications have been made and for what amount? They said they don't know. Today, however, we saw once again that the relevant ministers were already communicating on this matter. It was said that it was about EUR 20 million. So if we can believe the communication, we are talking about EUR 20 million. Loans totalling EUR 20 million were requested. That is certainly the best proof for me that all this is just going to be far too late. After all, you should know that in September we asked what the outstanding amount of the coronavouchers still to be paid back was. It was then about 137 million euros. However, the tour operators had to pay back those vouchers to consumers since mid-September. The difference between EUR 137 million and the EUR 20 million loan application points to the fact that many organisers themselves have repaid all their customers, often with their own private resources, at the expense of themselves. When you think about tour operators, you think a lot about the Tuis and the Neckermans of this world, but in the travel sector there are more than 400 SMEs. These are often family businesses that have been in the travel sector for generations. They have built something up and they are now the biggest victims of this government. That is one of the reasons why our group tabled an amendment yesterday to ensure that the tour operators who have fulfilled all their obligations since mid-September would not be the victims and the government would accept its responsibility. Apparently, the government didn't think it was necessary. The majority therefore voted away our amendment. There is also a major legal problem. I know there are some lawyers in the room. What's in store here will have a retroactive effect. Working with a retroactive law is very exceptional. This certainly does not improve legal certainty. I asked a number of questions about this yesterday, but I never received an answer to that question, which worries me very much. My question was technical, but it was important. Article 16 of the bill provides that, as soon as the provisions of the title enter into force, communications will be made with the tour operators, but that entry into force is still not in place. We will be voting on this today, and it will have to be published in the Belgian Official Journal, but it has already been communicated. Legally, that retroactive entry into force is not consistent with that. I hope that there will be no complaints from third parties, because this is based on legal quicksand. To conclude, as a group, we have not been awake about this. But we do find it a very difficult situation. On the one hand, of course, we do not want consumers and tour operators to be the victims of the government's number. On the other hand, it is quite extraordinary to let this pass and to say that there is no problem at all. By the way, there are mechanisms for obtaining legal certainty. I'm thinking of an opinion from the Council of State, a second reading, but we don't want the tour operators and consumers to get hurt. All these considerations have led us to decide, in their interest, to approve the legislative proposal. But I sincerely hope that the government will draw some important lessons and conclusions from this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it must be dared... It must be dared to look straight into the eyes of a sector which has given way very hard in the last year and a half. To be honest, today I feel a little bit back-to-wall, not so much because of the content of the file but because of the way things are going. In committee, we have been debating travel cheques and travel agencies for a year and a half. What do we see now? Hopelessly too late, quickly, last minute, an amendment is added to a draft law which has nothing to do with its content. It will then be quickly muffled away in a bill on explosives precursors. That is the result of unthinking action, of dragging everything on and, despite the many debates and concerns on this subject, of waiting for it to happen. It is very easy and inexpensive to point to the late approval by the European Commission, which has now led to problems in the whole of this dossier. I found the Minister's explanation at the committee meeting embarrassing. Several Members of this House also have their buttocks exposed when they have to admit that we should not be proud of what is now being done. In several cases, I have often said that it is our job to ensure that legal certainty is created, not only for citizens but also for businesses. This legal certainty must also continue to be preserved and monitored. The travel sector has had enough difficulty in the last year and a half. Ladies and gentlemen, you often wonder why the public is full of politics in this country. Well, the creation and the way in which we are implementing this amendment of the law today is a typical example of this. I find this course of action really unworthy of a parliament. We will, of course, be voting in favour of this proposal today, even though we have a very harsh feeling about the way in which we have worked, which we have seen many times in committee. We approve the bill because the travel sector, the sector of the tour operators, needs it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u126	Minister, we are in a somewhat surreal situation. The law was passed on 21 November and a few days later, there was the tabling of this bill. It's pretty revealing of how the government works. On May 5, 2021, I asked the government about this issue, stressing the situation of the persons concerned. The government had kindly repackaged me! He seemed to think that what I was saying was stupid. Five months later, not only did the government have to change its 180-degree position and recognize that there is a problem, but it took five months for the government to act. It acts too late, in haste, through a bill that escapes the mandatory consultations of the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority. In addition, you had to submit a proposal without obtaining the opinion of the European Commission, which you have once again delayed asking for. When we voted on the law that we want to amend today, we denounced the lack of consultation with the Council of State because the law raised important questions of legal certainty, in particular because of the numerous legal procedures involved. We expressed our scepticism about the possibility of meeting the deadlines. Again, you swept our concerns away with a back of your hand, even judging them to be displaced. What do we see today? For this correcting bill, there is still no consultation of the Council of State and we are still in great urgency – I would say even the greatest haste. We are therefore concerned that the adoption of this new proposal will not, as it claims to do, solve the problems faced by all travellers who are victims of the cancellation of their journey because of the covid. Let us recall that they had been deprived, by a ministerial decree, of their rights under European law. The proliferation of successive legislative proposals in haste, after a denial by the government, does not offer any more legal guarantees today. It is a bit like, I believe, the proliferation of Codeco meetings that are taking place in a rush on health. There are numerous Codeco meetings and press conferences. But, as far as operationally effective implementation is concerned, strong measures and the use of weapons are concerned, on the other hand, something else. We have shared the objectives since at least last May, when the government did not want them and, worse, acted to circumvent the rights of travellers. On the other hand, we do not share your method which does not guarantee legal certainty. That is why we will not support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u127	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u128	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2339/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2339/4) The bill has 11 articles. The draft law has 11 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u129	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u130	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the discussion took place this afternoon. Both the majority and the opposition parties were very surprised and resentful about the methodology and lack of information on the budgetary adjustment, which is implemented through an amendment in the 2021 budget. In particular, there were many questions about the specific elements and modalities associated with the real estate projects of the Government of the Buildings, which are the subject of the budgetary adjustment. During the meeting, which eventually also went on behind closed doors, the Secretary of State for Digitisation entrusted the Administrative Simplification, Privacy and the Directors of the Buildings with various explanations to the members of the Committee. The vote then took place, in which I personally did not take part. Amendment No. 3 was adopted with 10 votes in favour and four against. Article 4, thus amended, was adopted by ten votes to four. The draft law as a whole, as amended, was adopted by name by ten votes in favour and four against. For the various explanations and questions I refer to the written report, which will follow. Those who are impatient can already take note of this via the streaming or videoconferencing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u132	Madam President, I would like to thank both rapporteurs. Mr Piedboeuf is right to refer to the written report. Mr Leysen presented an oral report, although he only did so in part. The Rules of Procedure require that the reporter also summarise what has been effectively explained by the various speakers, that he or she also mentions the names of the speakers and that he or she not only reflects the result of the vote. I refer in this respect to Article 78 of the Rules of Procedure. Madam President, I sincerely do not want to be overly formalistic, but simply refer to video streaming cannot. I do not wish to set a precedent for an exception to what is an oral report. We could have asked for a second reading and a written report. We did not do that, because it is about an adjustment of the budget and in all honesty also out of respect for the Secretary of State for the Budget, who is doing a good job. However, we must also respect the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber and give a full account of the discussion. This is a smaller discussion, but about a corresponding amount. It is not a huge bill, but I do not want to create a precedent in this area. When an oral report becomes a de facto reference to a website, it does not seem immediately appropriate to me. Mrs Van Bossuyt has just given an excellent example of an oral report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u133	Madam Chair, I would like to support the remarks of my colleague, Mr.Loones, and to ask you as Speaker of the House. I would remind you that in the event of a consensus in committee on this exceptional procedure, in order for an oral report to take place in plenary session, it must indeed have content. The question arises as to whether we have just heard an oral report, which I do not think is the case. Sending back to streaming is not an oral report! Madam President, I would like you to call for some seriousness in the parliamentary proceedings. It is still a bill with an adjustment and not a gadget text. And even if that were the case, this is not acceptable. It is up to you, Madam President, to ask for an oral report to be made here and now in good form.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u134	Madam President, we, too, have finally agreed to an oral report by Mr Leysen, provided that the report is properly presented. I hear a disguised version of the facts here. Mr Leysen explicitly points out that he has left the Chamber. He gave a clear explanation for that, a statement which we could all endorse, I see Mr Loones nodding. I would like to hear why he left the Chamber and what was stated there. That is precisely the intention of an oral report. It is also very important for our Assembly that this can be discussed in detail here, because we are talking about a decision that is not less than EUR 400 million. Mr Leysen had justified reservations about this. I hope that they will be repeated here, as they were formulated in committee, because that is the intention of an oral report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u135	Indeed, an oral report must be accurate. I therefore come back to Mr Leysen by stating that this cannot create a precedent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u136	Mr Loones took the floor first in committee. Usually it was about the demand for more details. He asked why the amendments had not been tabled earlier, how the rent of the current buildings was going to fit in with the overall plan for the employment of civil servants. There was also a question about the 64 million in court fees. Is that classic? Have other options been considered other than the direct purchase? What are the acute needs? What do we think of the procedure? Can more details be given? It was then noted that this was confidential and that further meetings were held behind closed doors. Members of different parties asked whether the government had followed the correct procedure in view of the large amount and whether the public procurement law had been respected. They also wanted to know how many square metres were involved and whether the expenditure concerned new buildings. Mr Vermeersch wanted to know the impact for the coming years on the €1 billion envelope allocated for the restart and transition plan. It also recalled the Bogaert rule that there should be 48 hours between tabling and voting. The question of court fees was asked again. On the question of whether there was an impact on the 2021 budget, the State Secretary replied that there was, of course, an impact on 2022 and explained that. As far as the European framework is concerned, the question arose as to whether this is a lost financial year and the arguments for and against taking this year's action were followed. Reference has been made to the change in price: a purchase has been chosen instead of leasing. Mrs Cornet has taken the floor, as has Mr Steven Matheï. As far as I remember, Mr Van Hees did not do so. As far as I was concerned, of course I would have liked to have more details about the split-up. I believe that Mr Donné has also asked for this. Did it only involve investment costs or also installation costs? However, it is only about investment costs and there is an ambition to conclude the contract this year. There were also questions about the number of employees. The Secretary of State referred to his policy philosophy, while I referred to his policy paper and said that it was personally difficult for me, because the information is still incomplete. I therefore did not attend the vote after the closed sitting and was replaced by our group chair. I hope that's enough. I don't have elephant memory, but fortunately I got some notes. I just spoke on the basis of the notes I received from the secretariat, but the phrase in which I referred to the streaming was mine. The various speeches made by the speakers and the answers they have given can be complementary. I have tried at best to give a more comprehensive report, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u137	To correct, my answer in committee may not have been entirely clear, but there is no budgetary impact on 2022. Maybe I misunderstood that myself. Furthermore, Mr Leysen was replaced by Mr Pillen, our deputy in committee, and not by Mrs De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u138	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for supplementing the rapporteur's report. I would ask the rapporteur to give at least a moment's thought to Mrs Cornet's precise statement in committee, to mention the points made by Mr Donné in his report and to reflect the reply of Secretary of State Michel. It has not answered many questions, which is one of the major problems. In any event, it would be appropriate to inform the plenary of what the Secretary of State has said or has not said, given the fact that he has decided not to attend our plenary session and to transfer the hot potato back to you, Madam Secretary of State, which I do not think is appropriate. Anyway, everyone's style and approach. In short, Madam President, I would urge the rapporteur to supplement his report, referring explicitly to the many debates in Parliament on the value of a report. I take note of the words of former President of Parliament Patrick Dewael, who, like you, has repeatedly stressed the importance of reporting and the exceptionalness of the oral procedure during this period. If Parliament were to remain willing to do so, it would be appropriate to have a full report of the discussion. I also invite him to be a little more explicit about the motivation given by Mr Leysen in committee to declare his departure. This explanatory statement should also be part of the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u139	Madam President, our colleague Christian Leysen probably did not produce a full report, but we will receive the written report. With regard to Mr Loones' remarks on the absence of Secretary of State Mathieu Michel, I would like to point out that the latter came to committee, at the request of the government, to explain the content of the adjustment and adaptation that was made to it. It therefore came as a channel of the decision, which had been taken by the government. Mr Mathieu Michel being in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, he is therefore the channel for the operationalization of the decision, which he came to detail precisely in length and wide. In addition, he responded to my request to discuss in camera the bodies involved in the investment. From the time he explained the case, he was not to be present at the sitting, since the subject in question was a budgetary adjustment. The Secretary of State, who did very well, was perfectly able to show that a change had been made to the budget adjustment and that she had been supported earlier by a majority. Final point! Everything else is just a continuation of a trial of intent. For my part, I can't stand them!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u140	Madam President, in my youthful enthusiasm I put myself up for oral reporting, forgetting the age and maybe my memory is a little less. I have tried twice to give that mandate back, but the President has not accepted it. I will refrain from that exercise in the future. I certainly didn't mean to. I also thought that there was regular opportunity in plenary for Members to repeat the arguments or concerns they have. So I have done it in short form and leave it to colleagues to talk about their concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u141	Madam President, I believe that the time has come to move on to substantive exchanges! We have heard from each other, it would now be opportune to talk about the substance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u142	Madam President, I would ask the rapporteur to provide a full report on the discussion. Mr Leysen has presented himself as rapporteur and has been assigned this task on behalf of the committee. At the end of the committee, the question was asked whether anyone else from Parliament or the committee wanted to take over the rapporteurship. No one was willing to do that. The various colleagues from the majority could have raised their hands perfectly, but nobody wanted to. I insist on getting a reasonable report. The Rules of Procedure explicitly state that you cannot give a verbatim report, it must be a summary of it. You cannot say that a report has been presented here, if even Mr Michel's reply has not been brought forward in a somewhat decent manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u143	Madam President, I could fully understand Mr Loones' first speech. The first report was indeed too brief. You intervened, and you were right about that. The rapporteur has corrected himself and then commented on what speakers have said. I would like to remind Mr Loones that it is not the rule to have a verbatim report when an oral report is produced. There is always a question of a certain interpretation. Is that enough or not? The rapporteur has certainly corrected himself and supplemented his report. I would like to suggest that we proceed to the substantive discussion of the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u144	I'm joining Mr. From Vriendt. Mr Loones, with all due respect, I understand that the first version of Mr Leysen's oral report does not agree with you. I agree with you. It resumed and completed its report. To say that an oral report does not fit according to its substance could be said of any oral report. By definition, it is a summary report given by the rapporteur on the basis of what he considers to have to be reported. The oral report is not what we both want to see in it, otherwise it is endless and the very concept of oral report no longer makes sense. Really, Mr Loones, I suggest that we move on to the general discussion, otherwise we will switch to a chicanery that has absolutely no end. On the other hand, I think what you said can be done. In any case, this will be reflected in the record. It is important to take this into account. I repeat: I think your speech was well-founded and judicious, but it changed his oral report. We're not going to spend the night either!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u145	Madam President, I think this is going to be very light. An oral report is already an exception to the rule. The opposition is already so constructive to go along with that. Normally, we have a written report stating who has put forward what arguments. I was not present on the Finance Committee. I was sitting here following the plenary session. After hearing the oral report, I intend to know who took the floor in committee with what arguments. The point made by Mr Loones is entirely justified. It is true, Mr De Vriendt, that Mr Leysen has corrected himself, but very briefly because he forgets speakers and even the reply of the competent State Secretary. Allow me to bite Mr Loones that someone who did not attend the committee does not know with such a brief report what arguments were on the table in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u146	Colleagues, I hear each other's recriminations. Earlier, I said how much more precise the oral report should be. Mr Leysen took the floor to complete his report. The Secretary of State also supported the proposal by specifying a number of points. I now believe that it is time to get to the bottom of this and to stop this discussion on the exact and precise content of this report, which, despite everything, is intended to be synthetic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u147	Madam President, I understand your point. I also understand Mr Laaouej. It is a matter of principle, but it is also content, there is a smell on this dossier. Madam President, I really insist that we receive at least one report from Secretary of State Michel. The reporter did not mention the answer of the Secretary of State to the many questions. I have no problem with postponing the item and first discussing another item on the agenda so that we can move forward and refresh Mr Leysen's memory, in consultation with the cabinet and so on. In this way, the rhythm of the plenary session will not be delayed. However, I do think that we should at least ask for a summary of the answers given by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u148	Madam President, the Secretary of State has explained how this dossier has accelerated. This fits in with his adapted policy vision for the Government of the Buildings, which as such has invested. He explained that there were still costs involved, that it was intended to close the transaction before the end of the year, that he would see the importance of the energy transition and facilitate a good working framework for the staff of the two services for which it is intended. Perhaps the Secretary of State could mention other very relevant facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u149	Madam President, I would like to thank both rapporteurs for their report. [[Hilarity]] If the question is asked again in order to produce an oral report on urgency, this will make me all the more sensitive to whether or not to answer that question. In short, I would like to replicate the explanatory statement made by Mr Piedboeuf, whom I greatly appreciate. Mr Piedboeuf, I would like to add my full support to what you have said. The Secretary of State is quite capable. It can fully defend the dossier in this plenary session. Zij is completely capable, maar more than capable. It is striking that the Secretary of State is getting a lot of trouble in the Chamber. She gets a lot of coal out of the fire. Apparently, in the government, she's on the last line. Madam Secretary of State, I would therefore like to express my respect for you, and you have just defended the file of the coronavoucherbank, for which a minister is also responsible. I understand that the tasks are divided in the government, but in terms of collegiality, everyone can draw their conclusions. Madam President, now I come to the substance of the matter and I would like to explain why I am persistent in asking for the report. What is happening here is actually very special. The file had a normal start. A budget was adopted for 2021. Some budgetary adjustments were made through the budget sheets. Because this is a special year, because of the corona pandemic, the fifth adjustment is already in place. We had a good discussion on this at the committee meeting. The current adjustment is somewhat atypical because it concerns a reduction in expenditure. Less social benefits are paid, but a little extra investment is being made in the social energy tariff. In globo, a saving, or better formulated, of around EUR 500 million was achieved with this adaptation sheet. A discussion took place between majority and opposition, as usual in a parliament. I believe that this has been done correctly. I would have asked the Secretary of State for additional information by last Friday so that we could vote today with all our knowledge. We have been prepared not to stop the vote at the committee meeting. There too we have been accommodating and we have said that we would not stop the vote in committee. We have given the Secretary of State the opportunity to deliver it by e-mail so that everything can be tidy before the end of the year, and even before the discussion of the 2022 budget. So far, no dirt in the air. We got that information on time, too. Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. What do we determine? A bill was tabled on 10 November, a date to remember - and that was discussed and voted on 23 November - eight days ago. That procedure is completely normal. But yesterday, suddenly, there was an amendment from the government in our mailbox. At first I thought it would have to do with the corona crisis: an investment in vaccines, an aid measure, or something that absolutely has to be done this year, a special need that needs to be financed. It wouldn't be the first time this year, we understand that too, because corona creates a special situation. But no, it doesn't seem to be a corona issue, but an amendment by the Government of the Buildings. I thought it would be a small expenditure, but it appears to be EUR 280 million, an amendment that was added yesterday to EUR 280 million, which has nothing to do with the budget! Secretary of State Michel suddenly thinks that an additional EUR 280 million should be spent. Then the alarm bells go off on me. Why hasn't the proper procedure been followed? Why does that have to happen so quickly, without control mechanisms? My first question to the Secretary of State is, of course, why there is no amendment until 1 December, yesterday, to spend EUR 280 million. I said in committee: 'Maybe you are Superman, a super-secretary, since you managed to negotiate a mega-deal and finish the purchase of new buildings on eight days, since the meeting on 23 November'. The Secretary of State has therefore succeeded in getting a dossier that nobody knew anything about on eight days and submitting it to Parliament by amendment. Mr Michel replied that it is not true and that the dossier has been going on for a long time. He claims that he hasn't arranged the file on eight days, but that it's been going on for a long time. I would like to ask him how long he has known this, how he has not informed the Secretary of State for the Budget on this and whether this might be in his policy paper 2022. Mr Leysen, that was my question that you could have mentioned in the report. The State Secretary's reply was that he did not enter the item in the 2022 policy paper, because he knew it would be an issue for 2021. Therefore, he did not have to include it in the 2022 policy paper, because it was a case for 2021. I replicated that this was weird. Indeed, its policy paper dates from 29 October 2021. On that date, therefore, he submitted a note to Parliament. At that time he knew that he would buy three buildings, she would grow for an amount of 280 million euros and that he would not do so in 2022. On 29 October, therefore, he knew that well before the date on which Madam Secretary of State came to Parliament on 10 November 2021 with her budget adjustment, and well before the discussion of the draft budget adjustment bill on 23 November 2021. For more than a month, the Secretary of State had information that it would go in that direction and that it would be an issue that should take place in 2021. It seems, however, that this should not be reported to anyone, not even to the Secretary of State for the Budget or even to Parliament. That's weird. I repeat that, when such things happen, there are alarm bells ringing in my mind. Here on the table is a move and a number of officials, in particular 1,500, who need to be moved and find an extra place in a number of buildings around the North Station. The prices mentioned, when they are deposited in square metres, appear to be substantial amounts. The Secretary of State for the Budget has provided us with additional information that Mr Michel had not given us. There'd be some extra people in those buildings. We have that information. However, we are not concerned about the whole dossier. So we do not have a complete dossier to really judge with knowledge. The price is pretty high. What are we doing? We ask questions about it, such as whether we can look into the public contract. Can we see the cutlery too? Can we see how things have gone? Everything appears to have gone through special procedures, limited and cachette. Again, strange what happened. But, says Mr Michel, I have the ultimate answer, you should not have any questions, because it is about energy-efficient buildings. Then, all of a sudden, Ecolo was all over the story. That it cost 280 million was less relevant, because they are energy-efficient buildings, that was enough. In her first speech, Mrs Cornet thought it was a bit strange what Mr Michel did. I certainly do not want to put words in her mouth, but it seemed to me that the ecological argument was an important element for her to consider. Loyalty to the government may have been a second argument, but I have no indication of that. So Mr Michel says that we should not worry, because it is all energy-efficient buildings that will be bought. But, he says, on top of that 280 million, I need another 90 million to renovate those buildings. Apparently they're not that good or energy efficient. Apparently it is not about 280 million, but at least 370 million, provided there are no underestimates of the amounts mentioned by the Secretary of State. Once again, we ask for access to the file. We're not being handed anything. Again, the Secretary of State says that he has another reason to do so: we will have to pay tens of millions less in rent. We will then immediately ask how much that is right and in what year will we not have to spend it. No answer. Colleagues, this is not normal. One day, an amount of EUR 280 million will be requested for a building file that passes without proper checks. Normally that happens via a budget and there is control by the Court of Auditors. Why can't I? Maybe you don't want the Court of Auditors to have access to this file or explain it? Worse still, why does Parliament not have sufficient time and knowledge and the complete dossier to judge it? What the hell does the government have to hide? I should perhaps remind you of the fact that we have already had a purple green government in this country that didn't exactly have the best track record when it came to real estate records. I sincerely hope that your government does not have the ambition to follow in those footsteps. I'm not alone with that analysis. The rapporteur, who left the Chamber for a moment, I think he shares them because he did not even want to be involved in the vote. Before the discussion began, he even asked for the floor to say that he thought it was special what was happening and he wondered if it really had to be done. Up to two or three times, he asked in committee whether that vote could not be postponed. He even addressed the President and the Secretary of State and asked the rapporteur out loud several times whether it was an appropriate way of working and whether it was absolutely necessary to vote on it at that time. Mr Leysen may contradict me, but I can only assume that he has not received a satisfactory answer. After all, he didn't want his fingerprints on the file, he just left the room and didn't even want to majority. You may think that's normal, but I don't think that's normal. Again, we are talking about a lot of money, 280 million this year and at least 90 million next year for renovation costs and so on. I think that's abnormal. You may not have seen what happened in the last few weeks, but we've seen police officers on the streets for days with financial questions that your government hasn't agreed to. Moreover, there are financial needs in the context of Corona for the sake of care and there are several discussions that are not all going well. If, however, a real estate file of 280 million suddenly shows up here, of which we have not seen a complete file, nor an analysis by the Finance Inspector, nor a written report by the Budget Administration, then that will just pass. How the hell do you explain to those cops in the street that they just have to keep protesting to get something, when all that just passes by when it comes to a construction file? Ladies and gentlemen, I am being difficult about this report because what is happening here is simply not proper. Moreover, if this is combined with the failure to respect or to appreciate the agreements in force under the Rules of Procedure, I do not think that this is appropriate. Mr Leysen, I will now report briefly on your intervention. You can correct me if I am wrong. You can find this drama, but I think it's just democracy. I hope that when you vote in favour, you will feel a little uncomfortable and that you realise that what is on the table may be your first real estate scandal. After all, there's a smell on this. The fact that you are using this exception procedure creates at least that impression. I was hoping your government would do it differently, that you would go for transparency. I can only say that even the rapporteur of this proposal did not want to vote in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u150	I can only advise colleagues to use the search function and type the name Leysen during the vote to see how he will vote on this proposal and to see if he will vote at all. Perhaps there will be a statement from his president that Mr Leysen will vote in agreement with his group but has a technical problem. I would like to call on colleagues to watch this closely with us. This fifth fiscal adjustment is now overshadowed by the last issue that was added at the last minute, but the 2021 budget contains a whole series of measures. My good colleague, Mr Ravyts, who is now on the Committee on Energy, has asked me to emphasise here that our party explicitly supports the continuation and development of the social tariff, both in 2021 and 2022. We have noted this week that the people who are entitled to an additional social rate, half a million people, will be able to benefit from that social rate only until 1 April 2022. After all, the 2022 budget, which we will be discussing just before Christmas, says that from then on all these people will have to pay the full price, because that budget does not provide for any budget for them. Apparently, there is no budget in the budget for these people at the moment. That has become very clear in committee this week. The Flemish Interest Group certainly supports this social tariff. However, the Flemish interest has always opposed the budgetary work of this government and certainly does not support it. We have systematically voted against the budgets. The spectacle we see again today only strengthens us in our conviction. Yesterday, through our group leader, we received an e-mail from the Secretary of State for the Budget to say that an amendment would be tabled at the 11th hour, which we received within 24 hours. It was an A4 magazine for a huge amount of money. Mr Loones mentioned 280 million. That is the effective amount in the commitment credit. The words of the Secretary of State indicate that it is the purchase of two buildings, one of EUR 216 million and one of EUR 94 million, representing EUR 310 million. Mr Donné's analysis also showed that a further EUR 90 million would be provided for the establishment. That amounts to a small half billion and at least 400 million for these transactions. We are not talking, for example, about the break-up allowances that may have to be paid for other buildings that are abandoned for the benefit of these buildings. So we are actually deciding here today on an amount of just half a billion euros. This has been repeated in this House in 24 hours. That is really unseen in our committee. Mr Leysen has expressed his indignation at this. That's correct. He couldn't do anything like that, and he spoke out about it. The fact that he ended up running away from the vote, I find less of a responsibility to bear. The elected politicians must take their political responsibility and show this in their voting behaviour. So we'll definitely keep an eye on that later. But Margaret Thatcher would never let that pass. We are used to working seriously in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. The Bogaert rule has already been mentioned: we demand that documents submitted in our committee be available at least 48 hours in advance, because it is often about financial matters. In this way we can look at the dossiers thoroughly and talk with knowledge. When I started my political career in Parliament, I had intended never to speak about the budget without any knowledge of the facts, without having looked at the dossiers thoroughly. Today I have to withdraw that promise to myself, because I do not have any knowledge of the current budgetary adjustment. There's just no information. Madam Secretary of State, at some point you have told us that there is a very good analysis of the purchase of the buildings. I would like to believe you and Mathieu Michel on your word, but I would prefer to see the analysis so that we can take full note of the fact that there is indeed a thorough analysis behind the purchase. You also mentioned a cost-benefit balance, but it is not there at all. We do not know the full cost and benefits of the operation. For example, rent income will be cancelled, but is this about large or limited amounts? Is that in relation to the investment? We do not know that either, even though we have asked these questions. We cannot, therefore, judge such an important decision with any knowledge of the facts. I have already said that we must decide in seven haste on a sum of only half a billion euros. Remember that, in the process that preceded the budget negotiations in October, there was still discussion about the budgetary effort to be made. You said that there should be a budgetary effort of EUR 3 billion, while the Socialists and the Greens wanted to go as far as the agreed commitment, namely EUR 1 billion. Prime Minister De Croo therefore chose 2 billion euros, neatly in the middle. Colleagues, at 24 hours, a decision of only half a billion euros is now being taken here. That decision, of course, pales in relation to the decision taken in the previous discussion. Then we were talking about billions of euros, now we are deciding on a little less than half a billion euros in 24 hours. It is therefore quite right that Mr Leysen should speak against it as a representative of the people. It is noteworthy that a member of the majority has allowed himself to do so, but he did so with good reason. This is in stark contrast to previous discussions. At the committee meeting, the Secretary of State also said - perhaps it was a slip of the tongue - that the adjustment is now being made in 2021, because the budgetary rules imposed by Europe are now slightly more flexible. In fact, it is said that 2021 is already a mess, that we are already in the wrong with the budget and that it will be less obvious, if we register half a billion soon. The decision can then be submitted to Europe, which will be judged mildly, as the budgetary rules will no longer apply until 2023. Madam Secretary of State, apparently that is the reasoning of Secretary of State Mathieu Michel. I see you shaking no now. In that case, you should inform your colleagues that there are serious debt problems in this country. The country is overloaded with debts. Future generations will be burdened by decisions taken today. Colleagues, I come to my conclusion. We will, of course, vote against the text. After all, we have never supported the government's budgets. After the adjustment, after the whole coup de théâtre of today, we are only strengthened in the belief that the budget work, as it is delivered today, is nothing but rubbish, to which we absolutely do not want to give any support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u151	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to address two methodological problems. The first concerns non-compliance with the law and, in particular, with article 54 of the Act of 22 May 2003 on the organization of the Federal State's budget and accounts. This article provides that any initial or adjusted draft budget must be submitted to the Court of Auditors in order to clarify parliamentary work. In this area, there are great questions. What about the opinion of the Court of Auditors on this fifth adjustment of the general budget of expenditure? There is simply no such thing. Perhaps you will tell me that this is not so important or that we have already practiced in this way. But a few months ago, my colleague, Vanessa Matz, asked you about this in the Finance Committee during the discussions on the first and second adjustments. At the time, you apologized to the commission by swearing to your great gods that this was an exceptional situation and that it would not happen again. Hence, it was hoped that things would be corrected and legalized. Clearly, since then, compliance with the law seems to have been forgotten and respect for high-quality and rigorous parliamentary work has been flouted. The second is the government method. When we see the deadlines for budget adjustments to be tabled in Parliament, it's cold on the back. Remember that just two weeks ago, we had to decide on the fourth adjustment. We now have to decide on a fifth. Should we still expect, Madam Secretary of State, a sixth adjustment of the budget before the end of 2021? That would not be impossible, since we still have three weeks of parliamentary work, and in view of what has happened in recent times, it must be noted that this is the government technique of choice. Now I'm going to the bottom. In this context, I would like to raise three issues. The first concerns the means available to allow the extension of the social tariff for gas and electricity and the energy aid measures which we could clearly vote for if only that were the point. The second dossier concerns this last amendment on this adjustment for an amount of EUR 280 million introduced at the very last minute or even in catini. On this amendment, there are huge questions as to how to bring it and its content. Quickly done, well done or wrong done? The story will tell. We have a lot of reservations and questions about this. The third dossier also concerns a majority amendment on appropriations and the transfer of €365 million to federated entities for covid-19-related vaccination. If I want to intervene on this issue, it is not because I do not agree with the calculations, even if there is a lot of uncertainty about this amount of EUR 365 million. What concerns me a lot more is the debate we recently had on the 2022 budget in the Committee on Health. I had to note then that the Minister of Health and you, Madam Secretary of State, had provided for a revenue for the 2022 budget of more than 500 million euros which should come from the federated entities and which is, in fact, not based today on any legal basis. If I intervene in this regard, it is because the minister justifies it by saying that the Communities and the Regions will only have to manage to pay for the covid-19 vaccine for the continuation, i.e. as part of the booster which corresponds to the third dose for those who have already received two and the second dose for those who had benefited from the Johnson & Johnson vaccine during the initial vaccination. The unilateral questioning, I insist, by the federal government of this vaccine distribution key – 80% under the responsibility of the federal authorities, 20% under the responsibility of the federated entities – is not only a nonsense, but is also tantamount to regionalizing in catimini – rebelote! – an essential part of the drug policy, which remains, I would remind you, federal. While we are at the heart of the covid storm, putting on the agenda an item that concerns the vaccination budget – obviously urgent – to start again this ping-pong of tensions and disagreements between the various health ministers and the levels of power, is the best way to waste time again and remain ineffective in the fight against covid-19. This is therefore a real problem. If I talk about it now, it is because I would like in this report to reappear the importance of maintaining this key of vaccine funding – 80% by the federal government and 20% by the federated entities. Let's stop this permanent ping-pong between the Ministers of Health and the levels of power on major topics like this one! This approach seems to me to be unique and problematic in the light of the crisis we are going through. I hope that this will not again be a source of conflict which, in the end, only lead to more inefficiency and, above all, that this key will be applied in 2022, when the fourth wave of the covid hits us with full force and we are still far from seeing the peak – if I believe the succession of new hospitalizations, especially in intensive care. Madam Secretary of State, I do not know if you will answer about these various elements. In any case, this is a debate which I believe will be reopened during the discussions on the 2022 budget, and more specifically on the health side. For all these reasons relating both to the substance, on which we have great questions, and to the method, we will not support this adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that I have really been asked direct questions. However, a number of comments have been made. I will not repeat all the explanations already given in committee. I would just like to point out one more time that there is still a piece of work available in one building, so it is absolutely not possible to divide the square metres by the number of employees. It is difficult to compare the current situation with the future situation. That's been explained, too. It concerns two services in which a large number of employees are added. It is therefore difficult for me to weigh the current situation in purely budgetary terms against the future situation. It has also been said in committee that there are no termination costs, as the leases stop when the buildings are put into service. These are the two technical matters I wanted to hand over. Then I come to my answer to Mrs Fonck. Mrs Fonck, the Court of Auditors gives its opinion and remarks on the general budget and on budgetary control but not on adjustments. The Court does this work on its side. I'm not planning any more adjustments in 2021 because we don't have time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u153	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to respond to your more technical comment. The problem is, of course, that we do not have a correct oral report. I also see that the rapporteur is leaving again. At some point, Mr Donné shared the cost price by the surface. He's got file knowledge. He's got some experience on the subject, too. I'm not a real estate specialist myself. Then, of course, one can calculate a cost per m2. If you add up the purchase price and the installation works and divide them by the surface area, Mr Donné will have a cost of 8.352 euros per square metre. That is, in his words, almost more expensive than the cost of the Pentagon in terms of decor, to paraphrase him. The problem is, of course, that we do not have a proper report, not even verbally. We can, of course, do the following, although I have not been able to record all the figures for the sitting. One has the total cost, one can divide it by the number of m2, including the renovation works. If we present this cost to people who know something about real estate, they will of course know whether they have done a good thing here or just paid a lot for that building. Mr Donné, the only one who has some real estate experience, told us in committee that this is extremely expensive. I can't judge it. I don't have that experience. Perhaps you still need to make that calculation, cost of purchase and renovation divided by the number of m2. Then we have an impression whether this type of office building is a normal cost or whether we are buying something very expensive here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u154	Madam President, I have given up the hope of getting detailed answers to the technical questions. Moreover, it is not your file, Madam Secretary of State, but your colleague Michel's. We will undoubtedly continue to interperate him on this in this House. I would like to conclude by thanking you for your parliamentaryly serious, Madam Secretary of State. I would like to call on your colleagues in the government to take an example.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u155	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u156	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2315/8) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2315/8) the bill has 5 clauses. The draft law contains 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u157	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u158	Not related Without report Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Kristof Calvo, Nahima Lanjri, Christian Leysen, Ben Segers, Guillaume Defossé.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u159	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u160	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2297/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2297/3) The proposal for a special law has 3 articles. The proposal of special law consists of 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u161	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u162	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 December, I propose that the following bill be referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget: - the bill (Ms. Leen Dierick and MM. Steven Matheï, Jef Van den Bergh and Franky Demon) amending the Code of Economic Law with regard to the offer of an electronic payment method, No 616/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 December, I propose that the following legislative proposal be sent to the Finance and Budget Committee: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Leen Dierick and Mr Steven Matheï, Mr Jef Van den Bergh and Mr Franky Demon) amending the Code of Economic Law as regards the provision of electronic means of payment, nr.616/1. This bill had previously been referred to the Committee on Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda. This bill was previously sent to the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u163	The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill amending the Act of 28 March 2021 granting workers a right to low unemployment in order to receive a vaccine against the coronavirus VOCID-19, with a view to granting the right to low unemployment also for accompanying a minor child to a place of vaccination, No. 2342/1. The Government requested the urgency statement pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the Law of 28 March 2021 granting a right to minor treatment to workers for the purpose of receiving a vaccine to protect against the coronavirus COVID-19, in order to grant the right to minor care also for the supervision of a minor child to a vaccination site, No. 2342/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u164	Madam President, the urgency is motivated by the current epidemiological situation, which does not allow the parliamentary process to be monitored within normal deadlines, particularly in view of the need to take the necessary measures without delay which could be such as to contain the covid-19 pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u165	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u166	The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the draft law amending the Value Added Tax Code with regard to tax exemptions for the implementation of activities within the framework of the common security and defence policy within the framework of the Union and with regard to temporary exemptions in respect of imports and certain supplies of goods and services, in response to the Covid-19 pandemic, No. 2343/1. The Government also requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the Code of Value Added Tax on exemptions from the tax for the implementation of activities under the common security and defence policy within the Union framework and concerning temporary reliefs on imports and certain supplies of goods and services in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, No. 2343/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u167	Madam President, this draft amends the Code of Value Added Tax, in particular as regards the scope and exemptions of the tax, following the transposition of two European Directives amending Directive 2006/112/EC on the common system of value added tax. Since Chapter 3 of the present draft already has effect on 1 January 2022, the present draft should be dealt with as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u168	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u169	The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of Bill 2349/1. The Government also asked for an urgent procedure pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft programme law, No. 2349/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u170	Madam Chair, the urgency is due to the fact that the draft contains provisions necessary for the implementation of the 2022 budget, which is currently under discussion in the House. Since the budget is to be voted before the end of the year, the provisions concerning it must also be published in the Official Journal before 1 January.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u171	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u172	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you will remember the government's request for urgency last week for Mr Vandenbroucke's kg-weighted bill, which has 1,850 pages, but which must be dealt with urgently. A document of 1,850 pages calls for a serious parliamentary debate, which we are also working on at the moment. The Minister's risk is that the draft will not reach the date of 1 January 2022. For that, the draft he has submitted is too broad. This does not mean that the points in it, which are really urgent, do not threaten to reach the final measurement in time. That is why we are giving the hemisphere the opportunity to ensure that the urgent items are approved in good time. That is why we have incorporated the urgent elements into a legislative proposal, for which we are now calling for urgency. If Members support us in our request, we will at least be able to ensure that the urgent elements of the 1,850-page document can be dealt with in good time and, I presume, approved by Parliament. The rest of the draft law will then have the normal parliamentary treatment, presumably in 2022. In that case, no wheel was driven off. That is why we are making the offer, through the urgent treatment of our legislative proposal, to ensure that it is treated as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u174	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u175	Madam President, for the sake of completeness, I note that part of last week's urgency is not being dealt with urgently. So there is a huge lack of consequence among the majority parties. They have declared something urgent and this week it is suddenly no longer urgent. I would like to point out the risks involved, because this is party politics in the narrowest way possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u176	We shall now proceed to the nominative vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u177	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u178	Yes 96 Yes No. [[39]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u179	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u180	Yes 83 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u181	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u182	Yes 96 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u183	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u184	Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u185	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u186	Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u187	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u188	Yes 82 Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u189	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote. .
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u190	Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 141 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u191	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the whole proposal for a special law must be adopted by a majority of the votes cast in each language group, provided that a majority of the members of each group are present and that the total of the positive votes cast in both language groups reach two thirds of the votes cast. In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the whole of the proposal of special law must be adopted by a majority in each language group, provided that the majority of the members of each language group are present and that the total of the yes votes in both language groups reaches two thirds of the votes cast. Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u192	F I'll see you later. N Yes 58 143 85 Yes Non 0 0 0 No. Abstensions 0 0 0 Abstentions Total 58 143 85 Total The majority of votes in each group shall be cast. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A two-thirds majority of the votes shall be cast. Accordingly, the House adopts the special bill. It will be passed on as a special bill to the Senate. The majority of the votes cast in each language group have been reached. The majority of those present in each language group have been reached. The two-thirds majority has been achieved. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of special law. It will be sent to the Senate as a draft special law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip144x.u193	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 9 December 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, December 9, 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
