ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u1	Mrs Rohonyi, you asked three questions on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u2	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but I will make sure that they are summarized in one question. They had to be updated based on Saturday events and subsequent announcements. Madam Minister, in the Committee on the Interior, at a previous meeting, you wanted to be reassuring about the organisation of Boum 2, this May 1st, at Bois de la Cambre. You announced that there was a consultation with Brussels local and regional authorities, but also that targeted communication on social networks would be put in place to deter participants. In the plenary session on 29 April, you also announced the presence, on the front line, of 50 stewards and, on the second line, a police reinforcement of local police. Unfortunately, despite your calls not to join this event and despite its very late withdrawal from Facebook, it must be admitted, this event brought together between 1,000 and 2,000 people. Fireworks, knives and fumigants were confiscated on that occasion. When the participants started fighting with each other, it was decided to evacuate the premises using water trucks, tear gas and mounted police horses. We witnessed a very bad remake of the Boum 1 as the balance sheet was again very heavy: of the participants, fifteen were injured, three police officers were taken to the hospital and a dozen were slightly injured. There were also 132 persons arrested on the margins of the rally: 127 administrative arrests and 5 judicial arrests for armed rebellion, threats and the sale of narcotics. Despite these incidents, the organizers of the event submitted an application for authorisation for a Boum 3, on 29 May. Therefore, Madam Minister, how did the police mechanism mobilised last Saturday be divided between Boum 2 and all the other events and demonstrations in Brussels on 1 May? Was this device, in your opinion, sufficient and proportionate to avoid overflows? Were there members of extreme right-wing groups among the participants in Boum 2 as feared by the Regional Security Council (CORES)? If so, were they identified and arrested? Can you tell us where they came from? From Brussels or other municipalities? Has an investigation been initiated with regard to the breakers, but also with regard to the few police officers, whose images are likely to illustrate a disproportionate use of force, including tear gas and batons? Were there any participants who had been the subject of reports of contempt or rebellion, prepared and transmitted to the public prosecutor's office during the past week? Why wasn't the Facebook event removed earlier? Why was the demand from the police so late? What targeted communication has been broadcast to deter public participation? Will you allow this famous new Boum 3? Finally, are you going to floor on a safe covid label that would allow the revival of the world of events, which would be able to properly frame all those young people who legitimately want to party?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u3	Mr President, Minister, the long-announced but illegal event La Boum 2 turned as expected and unfortunately again into a small battle in the Ter Kamerenbos. Let me refer you back to the debate we had on this one week before the start of La Boum 2, on which some colleagues and I questioned you about the communication with the organisers. You stated that it would have been impossible to contact them until then. For me, that is a somewhat questionable statement, as several journalists had already succeeded in doing so at that time. In addition, the organisers have their own website and email address and are present on various online media. Following the debate, a spokesperson of the initiators made another attempt to reach you and this time he succeeded. However, the young man in question was not invited to a serene conversation. Instead, he was referred to your Brussels colleagues and got an arrest and a criminal complaint on his leg, in which he was suspected of setting up a private militia and inciting violence. I quote this because from the outset I was hoping to believe that they had good intentions with that manifestation and did not intend to let them get out of hand. Of course, the real opportunity in the current pandemic can be discussed, but I note that there was a desire to be heard in the first place. Youth also wants a word in these difficult times. This is something I have to sympathise with and understand. Unfortunately, you didn't think so and you didn't answer their question about constructive dialogue for weeks. In the days preceding La Boum 2 everything has accelerated. The tension increased, a non-dialogue was chosen with the organizers and soon followed a bid of measures of which both you and mayor Close indicated that they would not be shy if people showed up on Saturday. On a nice Saturday it makes sense that I too would dare to go down with my family to the Ter Kamerenbos for a walk in the woods. That is quite harsh language in relation to a family with children who would like to go for a walk. There were reports that more and more people wanted to join the manifestation online. It is reported that this also applied to extremist groups on both the left and the right, who threatened to kick the shack and hijack the manifestation. Too bad, but it was. In other words, L'abîme couldn't control it anymore. Why was no more action taken after these ominous messages? Didn't you insist on this with Mayor Close? In the days before 1 May, everything pointed out that this would be a failure. In my opinion, this is a poor management and the political responsibility here is crushing. Unfortunately, there is no dialogue. For me, dialogue is not started in one or two days, but it is a long-term work. One does not force a dialogue. I think that's where you went wrong. The writing was always addressed to you personally. There is a great deal to be said about the events of La Boum 2, and I suspect that those who come after me will certainly highlight the different facets and perspectives. Who ignited the place, who cast the first figurative and literal stone? Was it the rioters who were among the protesters or was it the police when she was ordered to sweep the forest with horses and water guns? Because of the size of the meeting, different versions are circulating. What I do hope is that the rioters will soon be identified, because violence against the police is unacceptable. There are also videos on social media today about violent incidents with the police in the side streets of the Ter Kamerenbos, but I think we need to see them in a wider context. It's always about pieces that have to be analysed as a whole. Convictions will have to follow if necessary. I have heard from several quarters that people are already suggesting that more attention should be paid to dealing with aggression in the training of police officers. I imagine it's not always easy to keep a cool head. A full investigation will have to clarify this. What I would like is for you to come to this committee and explain once the investigation is complete, which is obviously not the case today. I'm counting on you to do this. Not only do I care about that, but also my colleagues. Meanwhile, La Boum 3 has been announced. Which way will you and the authorities go? I understand you would like to start a dialogue this time. It is understandable that such events are difficult or unachievable in the context of public health today, but we still need to hear the clear message of the demonstrators. We have a month to look at what is possible and what is not. Converse with the organizers and the peaceful masses they seek to represent and first of all condemn the rioters who want to ruin the spirit of the manifestation. I recommend that you look for plausible alternatives, whereby stewards and police can do effective crowd management in a good understanding with the demonstrators. I am thinking, for example, of drawing circles, placing benches, so that distance can be kept and perhaps allowing the manifestans to enter the park drop by drop in order not to have to experience any more overwhelm. Those are all ideas, but I don't know if they're feasible. After all, I'm not an expert on the subject. Finally, I believe that a number of alternatives should be and can be available and that their feasibility should be examined for another event. We need to be able to control the manifestation. I hope there's a better way to do that. More repression and a continuation of the manu militari does not seem to me to be an appropriate answer today. Proactive action is the solution and must remain the working method. Hence my questions. Are you willing to engage in dialogue with the collective in the run-up to this new announced edition? Will you contact the collective yourself or have you been contacted? Can you give me the latest state of play on the new event? What margin of negotiation do you see compared to previous editions? Are you thinking of alternatives? What does your action plan look like and match that of Mayor Close and Prime Minister Vervoort, following this new call? How do you see your responsibility in this? After all, I have heard that Prime Minister Vervoort put these in the Brussels Parliament completely in your cleanliness?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u4	Madam Minister, I have also tabled a question on the events on 1 May, but most of it has already been said. So I will try not to repeat myself. The context has already been outlined by the two previous speakers. On Saturday, these festivities lured a few thousand people to the Ter Kamerenbos, including many families with children. It was a heterogeneous audience. The atmosphere was tense according to participants. Around 6:00 p.m., the police would have started evacuating the park. At 21 o'clock the rest would have returned more or less. About 25 people would have been injured, 15 on the contestant side, 10 on the police side. There would have been 132 arrests. On social media there has been some stir over some circulating movies in which the police have acted rather disproportionately towards participants who at first glance were not doing much wrong. The floor is, of course, yours. How do you evaluate the facts and in particular the actions of the police? Do you find the police action disproportionate to some participants? The next question may not be asked by many colleagues. More and more people get the impression that there are two sizes and two weights. Why doesn't the police intervene heavily on a New Year's Eve in Brussels? Why aren't there any harder gigs or large-scale evacuations to report to a police commissioner's arsonists? The population has a right to know whether there is indeed a disproportionate approach in the various Brussels police zones, depending on the audience of demonstrators.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u5	Colleagues, 28 injured, both in the police and among civilians, and 132 arrests: that is the balance after La Boum 2 last weekend. For the second time, the Ter Kamerenbos became a battlefield. According to the media, there were between 1,000 and 2,000 attendees at a, yes, forbidden protest party. Unlike the first edition, this time people with more extreme ideas came to the protest party. Although the organization called for peaceful protests, weapons, knives and fireworks were soon found among those present. In my view, anyone carrying such matters has no peaceful intentions. This was also apparent in the aftermath of La Boum, when a police officer was attacked in broad daylight by a criminal youth gang with baseball bats. Also during the police intervention images appeared on those questions. The police had to intervene when it degenerate into battles, but we also saw images of harsh action. Research should indicate in what context that happened and whether the approach of the agents was excessive or not. When people with hammers and such weapons come to La Boum, with the aim of confronting the police, it does not seem strange to me that the police are defending themselves. Conflicts must be resolved as far as possible without violence. However, I can imagine situations where, unfortunately, non-violent action is not an option. And, yes, then I fear that the gummy bat and the water cannon are essential. The majority of young people at La Boum had good intentions, let us be clear about that. I can understand them, too. I have teenagers at home and I can understand that they're looking for some freedom and some entertainment. However, it is the criminal youth gangs, the excuse me for the word 'crapul', from well-known problem areas that cause nuisance and put others at risk. With the police people who work in those neighbourhoods, the motivation falls, especially after the attack on one of their colleagues. This is a pity, because they have entered their job with conviction and passion. Did you have any contact with Mayor Close and the police forces involved about the events that took place on La Boum 2? What conclusions can you draw? Will you stand bourgeoisly before the police officers who were wounded by the violence during the protest? Have you already consulted with the Minister of Justice on the introduction of zero tolerance in the case of violence against police? Do you think that's being followed up properly? Meanwhile, a call was already launched for a third edition of La Boum. What measures do you want to take to prevent the next edition from becoming a battlefield again? Have you made any attempts to contact the organisation, or did the organizers or other parties contact you? What initiatives will you take to improve the dialogue between the police and young people so that a proper picture of the police is presented? What measures do you see possible to tackle the criminal youth gangs from the Brussels problem areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u6	Madam Secretary, last Saturday the police had to intervene because two thousand people gathered in the Ter Kamerenbos for the illegal event La Boum 2. This event was prohibited in the light of the current health crisis and both you and the Prime Minister and the Mayor of the city of Brussels had called for this illegal event to stay away. The people who came did this to their own say to express their displeasure against the current corona rules. The corona measures of social distancing and wearing mouth masks were therefore widely ignored by those present. In addition, the reporting showed that there was a core that wanted to deliberately seek out the confrontation with the law enforcement services. That was also apparent from the firefighters and knives the police seized. Nota bene on Labor Day, thousands of police officers had to stand ready to finally evacuate the Ter Kamerenbos. This led to a cat-and-mouse game between the police and those who disobeyed police orders. Eventually there were 132 arrests, 15 injured participants and 13 wounded officers. The collective behind La Boum 2 has since announced that it wants to meet again on 29 May at the Ter Kamerenbos in Brussels. Madam Minister, we must indeed listen to the displeasure about the corona measures. Certainly our young people are having a particularly difficult time. The cultural and event sector is also groaning under the measures. The police, who have been working in very difficult circumstances for a year, are also having a hard time. So, ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand the organisers of La Boum who have ignored all the corona measures. I am therefore surprised that Mrs Goethals says here that the organisers may have good intentions. I have a lot of questions about that. This didn't happen like the first time, spontaneously and impulsive. We've all seen how that first time ended. It wasn't peaceful. It was a provocation and that while we know that the beds are full of intensive care in the Brussels hospitals and that we should not impose additional burdens on care. In my view, La Boum shows very little respect for the care. Moreover, if we tolerate this kind of gathering, it will soon be an illegal festival on every street corner and in every café. We really can't allow that. It is also a blow in the face of the cultural sector, the music world and nightlife, the regular sectors, which have been close for more than a year. Instead of pleading to tolerate such unusual events, we must give priority to the cultural and event sector in order to be able to open, with respect for the corona rules. As a result of all this, I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Do you have a visual on the profile of the people who were arrested? Were there any specific groups present with the intention of committing violence? How do you evaluate the police action? There was criticism of the display of power that would be out of proportion. Afterwards, images on social media of police violence also circulated in the streets around the Ter Kamenbos. What's your reaction to this? Did the Brussels hospitals have to take in wounded? If so, how many? I think it's important to know that, because the situation in hospitals is still precarious. You have announced that you want to talk to the organizers of La Boum. Have they already responded to your invitation? What was their reaction? The culture and event sector wants to be able to restart safely with respect for the corona rules. Last weekend Brussels and Walloon cultural houses, which are part of the collective Still standing for culture, also expressed their displeasure through civil disobedience, but that was organised and respected the distance rules. Do you think rebooting the cultural and event sector will stop illegal meetings like La Boum?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u7	Madam Minister, today we are taking stock of a sad event that took place a few days ago and that we were able to discuss a few weeks ago. The observation is the same as in Boum 1, or even more depressing and serious, as the images circulating on social networks are frightening. For my part, I was arrested by a few dozen people who were on the scene on May 1. Some of them sent me photos and videos they had taken. I also received emails from people who were family members at the Bois de la Cambre and who were not necessarily informed of the event, because not everyone is necessarily very active on social networks. Some information is not available to several segments of the population. I am concerned about several aspects of the case. First of all, I have the impression that we have seen a very bad remake of Boum 1, with no less than 132 arrests, as well as wounded on both sides – both at the police and at the participants. We know that on May 29, a Boum 3 is already scheduled. In my view, we cannot tolerate the repetition of such events, especially in certain places in our capital. Minister, does the police repression during Boum 2 seem to you to be well-balanced? The information in our possession indicates that some 700 police officers are present, some of whom have even been called in a neighbourhood close to my home for an estimated 1,500 participants. Can you confirm these figures? Does that not seem to you, at the very least, excessive? In Liège, some similar events took place, sometimes bringing together a few thousand people. Yet, we did not observe images of similar attacks or excessive arrests. Are these incidents not symptomatic of a certain escalation of violence in our capital? Could the police not have further differentiated violent demonstrators from peaceful demonstrators or from mere walkers and families present, like any Saturday, in the Bois de la Cambre? It seems to me that on that day the situation was not under control, at least in Brussels. Some colleagues have already mentioned this. How much do you estimate the proportion of violent demonstrators compared to peaceful demonstrators? Have you received confirmation that some extremist groups were present? If so, could they be identified? Are investigations open? At the moment, the analysis is, of course, probably still ongoing, but you have to answer several of our questions by giving us some information you have. I told you earlier, a possible Boum 3 could take place in a few days. How will you approach this event? Will you contact the people who lead this event? Will you better understand and react proactively so that you can better control what may be going on there? My colleague Rohonyi told you about his idea of the "covid safe" label. It's obviously an idea that I share. I think that today, the events that take place and happen again in the Bois de la Cambre are an affront to the event and cultural sectors. I believe that this is a means used by the population or part of it to show us how much it suffers, how much it can no longer do. We have been in this situation for more than a year. We must understand that today we must be able to regulate events and organize certain things in a legal way but above all by respecting health rules, which this type of event cannot currently allow. This kind of label and framework could solve a number of problems that we are facing. I am sure, and I hope you will be able to respond in a favourable way. However, I thank you already for all the elements that you can bring us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u8	Madam Secretary, La Boum is the title of a 1980 French film. Tragikomedie and quite a beautiful movie. What we have seen twice in the Ter Kamerenbos is not a comedy, but it is tragic. The situation has already been outlined by a number of colleagues. I would like to point out that the police must work in extremely difficult circumstances. It has the hard task of maintaining measures that we are all very tired of. These difficult circumstances must not result in a number of hotheads within the corps taking off their frustrations at the population. I'm the first to stand up for the police. Violence against the police, which was the case on La Boum 2, is unacceptable. If there are people there with hammers and all kinds of other weapons, it is not to celebrate, but to deliberately attack the police. There is always a group of hotheads, one or two percent, who come with different intentions, namely to attack the police. That's gotta stop. The youth gangs that interfere with the well-meaning population must be identified and severely punished. Without those gangs, the police won't be so hard on you either. I believe that there is a challenge for both the police and the justice system. My questions are as follows. What arrangements had been made with the law enforcement services for last weekend's manifestation? Were you involved in these appointments, or were you kept informed by the local government, the city of Brussels? You and the Prime Minister made an appeal not to go to the manifestation. What action has the city of Brussels taken, with or without you, to convince the people not to descend to Ter Kamenbos? Although only two editions were made of the film La Boum, a third episode is announced here. What will you do to make sure that any subsequent manifestation will not degenerate like the two before?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u9	Are colleagues still asking to speak in this topical debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u10	Minister, I will not recall the context in which these events took place and were held. In my view, it is neither desirable nor possible to close a wood like that of the Cambre, because this green space must be able to benefit the Brussels families who, despite the measures, are still allowed to walk there. It is one of the only places to relax in this difficult period, a real green lung of the Brussels-Capital Region. Irrespective of this, we can also see that next to these families, groups of breakers have been identified, who came with the firm will to deal with them. Dutch-speaking extreme right-wing groups and Hainaut-related Hells Angels bands have already been identified. That's a problem. In this context, police intervention must be able to be analysed in two ways: firstly, the necessary action against violent groups and, secondly, the analysis of the proportion in the use of force, since we know that we must not confuse breakers and others. In this regard, I have three questions, Madam Minister. How do you envisage the responsibility of the organizers in the way the events took place, while the local authorities try to do everything possible to guarantee, on the one hand, freedom and the fact of strolling in the Bois de la Cambre and, on the other hand, the right to demonstrate despite the health conditions? More than ten events were authorized by the mayor of the City of Brussels last Saturday. What is the attitude of the organizers in the search for solutions to enable things to go best? With a view to a new event, what steps can be taken with them to put an end to these sterile and counterproductive confrontations? What measures are being taken in terms of upstream management of violent groups and individuals? Let us recall an episode in which a former mayor of the City of Brussels had had to interrupt violent characters who also came from Flanders in order to commit acts of violence. In the wake of the events, have judicial arrests been made and what follow-up has been made? It is assumed that such event management operations are debriefed with the services concerned. What about here? What conclusions have been drawn?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u11	Mr President, I will be brief. Madam Minister, despite the many pre-existing threats, which I asked you about in plenary last Thursday, the overflows we know and fear have taken place. You told me that contacts had been made with the mayor of Brussels. It had been decided, among other things, to involve stewards in the front line, before the police. I was wondering if that would be enough in the face of the apparent determination of breakers on social networks. I do not throw the stone at you personally – let it be clear – but I regret to say it: everything was sewn with white thread. It was written that, without a different approach, Boum 2 would unfortunately resemble Boum 1, since these breakers had announced their presence on social networks. That is why I urged those responsible not to go there, but to favour other peaceful demonstrations in other places. I hear my colleague saying that this park cannot be closed because it is almost the only one. That's obviously not true. I am Brussels, I can tell you that there is Woluwe Park, Malou Park, Cinquantenaire Park, Royal Park, Rouge-Cloître, Tournay-Solvay Park, Laeken Park, Soignes Forest, Duden Park, and I'm passing by. There are many parks in Brussels, where it is possible to meet. Do you know, Madam Minister, that on TikTok is circulating a video where you see a child walking through this crowd targeted by the jet of an autopomp? Is it therefore responsible, as a parent, to throw his own in the mouth of the wolf, when the incidents were announced? Common sense is unfortunately not a universal virtue. In plenary, I urged the mayor and his police to change their strategy in relation to the events of 1 April, for example by filtering the entrances to the woods, because, as I pointed out, I did not want the citizens or police officers, already very tried, to be sent back to the pipe breaker. It wasn't, we saw it well. Same tactics and even fiasco! Minister, how can we explain that so many people have come together in the same place – in fact, without the required sanitary measures? What measures have actually been taken by the city of Brussels to avoid this situation? Do you think that the measures decided by the city were sufficient? As far as the future of events is concerned, I am not going to repeat the questions of colleagues. A new edition of the Boum is already announced. The organizers have tried to include it in the test events we have talked about, which are therefore allowed. As you said, there should be no room for organizers who act outside the legal framework. Can you provide an update on this Boum 3, on the application for authorization? What follow-up will be given to this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it is quite understandable that more than a year after the first measures put in place to combat the spread of the virus, the population wants to meet and celebrate. Who doesn't want it? What is unacceptable, on the other hand, is that it is done in circumstances such as we knew them this Saturday at the Bois de la Cambre. Although some of the people in the Bois de la Cambre wanted to meet peacefully, the lack of respect for health measures and the violence that many have shown towards the police services were unacceptable. Some believe that this violence against the police is justified because the police were numerous and in uniform. I cannot accept this rather simplistic argument. Preventive measures were taken in advance and throughout the day. Mrs Goethals, you repeat today that no preventive action has been taken. I'd like to contradict that. This has been done with prior communication. As Mr De Maegd says, the Prime Minister and I have called for them not to go. We have also addressed the parents to monitor this. So it is true that preventive action has taken place. Also on the day itself preventive action was taken in the first instance, both by the administrative authorities, whose communication I spoke about earlier was an example, and by the presence of stewards in the Ter Kamerenbos. There were also equipped police patrols and preventive police patrols of civil agents, without immediately visible uniform, in order to clarify once again to the attendees the seriousness of the need for the corona measures. Moreover, the Ter Kamerenbos has been monitored since Friday evening. There have also been checks on certain configurations. Only on Saturday, after fighting between the participants and projectiles were thrown to the police, did the police intervene to break up participants. This happened, also inspired by this preventive philosophy, not immediately, but after several warnings and messages, including per drone. In doing so, the people were approached, as were the parents who were still present at the time, with the request to leave the place urgently, before proceeding to the actual intervention. A total of 15 participants and 10 police officers were injured. Twelve people were evacuated to the hospital, including four police officers who have since been able to return to their homes. In this context, as always with regard to incidents of this kind, we are examining the possibility of setting our bourgeois party for any act of violence against a member of the federal police. That will be analysed in the next few weeks. The police made 132 arrests, 127 of which were administrative and 5 were judicial. With regard to your possible questions on the latter, I would ask you to address my colleague from the Department of Justice. Damage was also done on police vehicles: participants threw away many objects such as iron bars, bottles, firecrackers, fireworks, etc. The mayor of Brussels explained the reasons for his decision not to close the Bois de la Cambre, namely, on the one hand, the impossibility of making it completely airtight and, on the other hand, to allow the population to enjoy peacefully and in compliance with the health measures of this green area, as it has legitimate right. What happened this Saturday at the Bois de la Cambre is a perfect illustration of the drifts that can lead an ill-intentioned call to gather, launched on social networks. The media auction and the publicity given to this event, for which no authorization had been requested, certainly did not contribute to its peaceful development. In this connection, I would like to point out that a call to gather on social networks does not de facto constitute an application for authorisation for this event or an authorisation per se and, moreover, leads to a great risk of overflow. In this context, both the number and the profile and intentions of the participants are beyond the control of the initiators of the call. This does not mean, however, that the latter will be exempt from liability. I urge my colleague from Justice not to leave the facts unpunished. Collègue Rohonyi, a substantial police mechanism had indeed been put in place to manage all the events of 1 May taking place in the territory of Brussels, on the basis of the risk analyses carried out by the police services for each event of that day. This is also why a single command structure was set up under the coordination of the Chief of Corps of the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles Police Area. This arrangement involved several Brussels police areas as well as the federal police. All of the other claims that this police system simultaneously framed took place without incident. With regard to your question about the differentiation between the people present in the Bois de la Cambre, the police have constantly communicated: preventively and then to use dissuasive methods. One hour before the reactive intervention, the police made several gradual announcements, including using drones to warn the public of its imminent intervention. Thus, everyone was given the opportunity to leave the scene before the police intervened to disperse violent participants. As for an estimate of the proportion of these, it is very difficult to establish from the moment when the people who remained in the country took the side of opposing the intervention of the police. Finally, with regard to the issues relating to the contacts between the L'Abîme collective and my services, I would like to remind you that it is up to the local administrative authority and the local police to consult with the organizers of events in order to take the necessary steps to ensure their smooth running. In response to L'Abîme's e-mail, I therefore invited L'Abîme to consult with these bodies. I received no reaction from the collective. Mrs Goethals, for the record, the people did not make themselves known to me until they had already been summoned by the police. Only then did the identity be announced. We have then referred to the body which is best placed to deal with applications, as far as they are concerned. That's the local government. Mrs Goethals, with regard to your question on extremist groups, I can assure you that my services have followed the event closely and are still monitoring it with a view to the possible presence of extremists or rioters. On extremism, the OCAD draws up the threat assessment and gives a level of threat to such events. This is what the OCAD does, as we know, on the basis of all available information, both from open sources and from information in partner services. When there is disturbing information, the OCAD is responsible for determining the correct level of threat and for providing context. On public order, a similar threat assessment is carried out by the police. Collègue Rohonyi and Mr Platteau, the analysis of the detained persons is under way. Based on the information we have now, the police have not noticed any specific groups during the events. As this analysis is still under way, troublemakers will probably still be identified. Several of the persons already identified are known to the police. But it is still too early to draw general conclusions. Police deployment and police intervention were carried out as part of a risk analysis. This showed that there was a danger to public health, but in particular the risk analysis had shown that violence could be used, particularly with regard to police officers. That turned out to be the case, when after fighting rioters also started throwing projectiles at the police. As a result, more forceful police action became inevitable. The request to remove the event from the Facebook platform was submitted in time and as soon as possible. However, the formalities inherent in this type of application take time. That is why the facts took place as we could see. In the area of communication, various measures have been taken. The City of Brussels has communicated via the media and engaged stewards in order to communicate preventively in the woods. Preventive messages were also placed on the roadway. The police, on the other hand, communicated via traditional and social media. Teams also patrolled the wood to communicate in a preventive and dissuasive manner. Finally, standardized messages were issued by police vehicles and drones above the crowd. They warned of the imminent intervention of the police and instructed the crowd to return home and not stay on the scene. I would like to thank the mayor of Brussels-Ville and all the local and federal police services for their complicated management of the events of 1 May. Since the beginning of the health crisis, the police services have not been spared and are increasingly confronted with public discontent and violence in the face of health measures. I would like to reiterate my support by thanking them. Mr Depoostere, the images you are quoting were analysed internally by the police of the Brussels CITY Ixelles zone and an internal investigation was launched to clarify the facts cited. In this context, yesterday, on Tuesday 4 May 2021, the police area communicated a press release to place the partial images circulating via various social media in the right context. That's why I can't comment on yesterday's press release. At the moment, I can only wait for the results of that investigation. In any case, yesterday it was said that the images are much wider than the images we saw and that it is far too early to make a final judgment based on the images. It goes without saying, I believe, that the facts and images must be properly followed up. In the Brussels Police Zone, the capital city of Ixelles is always involved in riots, regardless of the location or origin of the facts. Colleagues Goethals, Platteau and Demon, as Mr De Maegd has already mentioned, indeed an application for the organisation of La Boum 3 has been submitted to the Mayor of Brussels. The application was submitted without much explanation as to its intentions or its organisers. Based on this limited information, this event announces itself as a protest action rather than as a test event. The application still needs to be analysed, first and foremost by local services. It is therefore too early to discuss the measures to be taken in this regard. With regard to the consultation between my services and the collective l'Abîme, I would point out that it is primarily up to the local administrative authorities to authorise or not to authorise events on its territory, taking into account the rules of the ministerial decision COOVID-19. It is therefore not for me, Mrs Goethals, to replace the latter in this matter, nor to consider the alternatives you have mentioned. The communication we have made on this subject before is that unfortunately today it is not possible to allow all kinds of events with a lot of people. However, there are a number of slopes in the Ministerial Decree that allow an event from 8 May 2021. Initially, these events take place outside for about 50 people. There are also test events, which also have to meet conditions. It is therefore not a question of calling a self-declared test event and thus fulfilling the conditions. That would indeed be an embarrassment for the cultural sector which is now trying to organise activities within the framework we have provided. They adhere to the framework and do not place themselves indifferently outside the regulatory framework. Mrs Rohonyi, it is not currently possible to allow a gathering of 1,000 participants, as foreseen in the request of the organizer of Boum 3. However, I am prepared to explain to the organizers the conditions under which they can do so within the current framework. I will not negotiate, because this is not possible, but I can nevertheless explain to them the provisions of the ministerial decree which offer the possibility for Bona fide organizers to organise events like everyone else, for example, such as the cultural sector. Mr Demon, it is very difficult for me to comment on a specific event as long as there is no specific application. You know that we also have a specific application form for the test events, on which a number of data must be completed, also in order to obtain scientific insights on those test events. On the basis of these applications, a number of pilot and pilot projects can be approved and organised under strict conditions. Nor is it the case that any application that meets certain conditions will be approved, but there will still be a limited number of pilot projects. That's important to keep in mind. We have agreed with all governments that the applications for pilot projects should be addressed to the competent local authorities, after which I can, on the basis of a reasoned opinion from all the relevant authorities, but also from the relevant ministers, for example from Culture or Sport, also from the local government or the Federal Minister of Health, give permission to depart from the rules of the ministerial decision. It may be possible under certain conditions. It is certainly also the case that we continue to work on initiatives to improve the relationship between young people and the police. Many initiatives have already been taken to restore confidence and respect between young people and the police. The current health crisis makes it difficult to carry out these projects as planned because sometimes physical contact is also necessary, which is much more difficult. In addition, we are working on a national campaign called Respect, where, of course, we must not only communicate, but also look at the diversity within the police force so that the police force is representative of society. With regard to local youth gangs in certain Brussels neighbourhoods, it is good that local authorities, together with the police authorities and the public prosecutors, can develop an approach to combating the phenomenon. I'm gonna be a part of that, too, if that's appropriate. My colleague from the Justice Department will certainly be able to provide further information. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, it is important that people continue to make efforts to combat the virus, but above all to maintain the pressure on hospitals. It's heading in the right direction, but there's still about 800 patients in the ICU. I am pleased with you that we will be able to give perspectives to the population from 8 May. That is a step towards more freedom and more social life that we all need. The reopening of the Horeca sector will be subject to prior approval by the local authorities. Events, cultural exhibitions and professional sports competitions can be organised in the open air for a maximum audience of 50 people, starting this Saturday. I hope that these future opportunities will allow everyone to wait for the health situation to improve in order to return as quickly as possible to a normal and social life.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your more detailed answer. I still have to regret some questions left unanswered. I'll explain it to myself. With regard to the participants in Boum 2, you tell us that investigations are under way and I welcome them. Except some images don't cheat. In addition to peaceful demonstrators, families, there were breakers and members of far-right parties who were clearly there to throw oil on the fire and get rid of them with the forces of law and order. These people were a minority among the participants, but they were clearly there to "break cop" and "break Brussels". As you rightly pointed out, this is unacceptable. I hope that the ongoing investigations will bear fruit and provide us with information on their identities and their provenance. The closure of the Bois de la Cambre, which had even been requested by some party presidents, as we heard from the events, was, as you rightly pointed out, not an option. Indeed, it would have been counterproductive and inapplicable. Counterproductive because it would have had the effect of reinforcing the frustrations of a few participants and therefore moving the violence in the neighbourhoods around the park, but also inapplicable because those who know the Bois de la Cambre know very well that this park is far too large for us to be able to encircle all its entrances. Concerning the organization or not of Boum 3, I am surprised to hear you say that the competence lies with the local authorities, mainly with regard to dialogue. However, you have announced in the media that you are fully prepared to enter into this dialogue with the organizers. You are nevertheless the minister responsible for laying down health measures! This dialogue must take place as a matter of urgency, with the organizers and with the event sector. It is not an automatic test event, but it must be avoided that the Bois de la Cambre becomes a battlefield, every weekend, this wood being the garden of many Brussels. In addition, police officers should be avoided, especially if, in the meantime, the Court of Appeal makes its decision on the illegality of the measures. If the illegality of the measures is confirmed, the participants who contest these health measures will be all the more motivated. On the other hand, this dialogue must take place absolutely with representatives of the event sector in order to finally be able to frame festive events in Bois de la Cambre or elsewhere in Belgium, during which the barrier actions will be respected thanks to the experience of professionals in the sector. They can no longer stand to see young people partying in parks when their establishments have been closed for more than a year. A consultation committee is scheduled for next Tuesday. It should look at cultural and event activities. There is really an opportunity that you need to take advantage of to ensure that events can be organized that can frame the legitimate need of young and old people to feast and return to a more normal life.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u14	Mr President, Minister, I agree with the previous speaker. I also think you have time today to really engage in dialogue with the collective. In my opinion, proactive action is still the best way of working. That must be done more than has been the case so far, because unfortunately that was not enough. I can only hope that at La Boum 3 or at another event, wherever that may be, we do not get a repeat of La Boum 2. However, I fear that this will not be the last event organised by the collective or by someone else. A good and concrete action plan will have to be drawn up for the organisers, but also for the law enforcement services, so that they can work together. I am looking at the example of two weeks ago in Amsterdam, where there was a very big event with a few thousand people and where the police were present massively. It's been quiet there. Apparently, the police have received other orders. I don't know, and I can imagine one event isn't the other, but we have to keep separating the chaff from the chaff. Ask the police to make a distinction between the quiet ones and the rioters. Relaxers can and must be dealt with hard, because they challenge. I repeat my request for an analysis of the current investigations. I hope only one thing today, namely that within a few weeks we should not come here again with the same questions and comments because the same has happened again. You can and must play a major role in this. I asked you the same thing last time. You really have to take responsibility here, even if you cannot make all the decisions yourself. We understand that. After all, there are different levels. However, if you contact the mayor, in this case mayor Close, and the Prime Minister, you will know that you have a shared responsibility there. If you don't have them, you shouldn't contact them either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u15	Madam Minister, I do not agree at all with the statement that one should just stay at home if a manifestation is forbidden. There must be freedom to show civil disobedience, but I do agree that this must be done in a respectful way. The freedom of speech is, in my view, a fundamental right and must be preserved. Yesterday it was, today it must be, and tomorrow it must be. I do not have to refer to the social struggle of the past, where certain demands were strengthened by demonstrations and what was even translated into action. I should not refer to a long tradition in the Flemish Movement to fight the Flemish battle on the barricades when necessary. There were also many justified demonstrations. I am thinking, for example, of the many demonstrations for the preservation of the Limburg mines. When we find that provocateurs are taking advantage of the situation, I have no problem with these provocateurs being dealt with and arrested by the police. As far as police action is concerned, it is indeed given the task of maintaining a ban on demonstrations. When she does that responsibly, I have no problem with that. That is the risk of taking part in a prohibited manifestation. I have experienced enough in the past and I myself have been hit by a matrak once in a while, that is part of it. I'm sure you won't hear me complain about that. In the meantime, however, we must not forget that those heavily armed law enforcement officers must behave correctly. That is what my question was about in relation to the videos circulating on social media. I am already very interested, like Mr Goethals, in the results of the research.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u16	Mr President, Minister, you indicated it. The word around which everything revolves is respect. Respect for the young people who are struggling, who want to come together and party. We can warn as much as we want, we can try to put everything into rules, the young people have had it, just like many other people. We must take this into account. Those young people who want to get together is something other than the amokmakers who don't belong there. A previous speaker referred to the Netherlands. The government may have managed to keep the amokmakers at home. In future initiatives, we will have to take this into account and find the middle ground. Violence from and against the police is absolutely unacceptable. In your reply, however, you have shown that you have worked preventively with the Brussels zones and that there have been several warnings via drones or other means, to make it clear to the people on the ground that it had been enough, that the situation began to escalate and to ask them to go home, including to the parents who were there with their younger family members. So that message has been given. There was no immediate exponential violence and the horses were not immediately hunted into the masses. Let us be clear about that. There's been a lot of preemptive work for La Boum 2. Like the previous speakers, I wish to point out that it is too early to speak out about films that are now going around. We need to look at violence in a full context to know whether it was justified. I do not want to do anything about this, as I mentioned earlier in my question. I understand that you will not be able to express your views on this matter. The zero tolerance for violence against the police is a competence of the Minister of Justice, but it is important and concerns us all. That is why, in my view, it is very important that you continue to monitor the matter and urge the Minister of Justice to ensure that the zero tolerance, which was mentioned a few months ago, is effectively translated into action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u17	Madam Secretary, thank you for the context outlined for what happened on Saturday. I can assume that it is not an easy task for the police, nor is it an assessment of the amount of men needed. At such events, many people on social media indicate that they will be present, but who actually shows up is hard to predict. Colleagues have asked pertinent questions, including how this can be avoided? How do we deal with any La Boum 3? We have not yet received any clear answers. However, Madam Minister, you have presented a clear picture of a new type of security risk that we are facing. These are events or meetings that "organisers" call widely through social media, but do not assume any responsibility for what will happen. We need to look at how we deal with this in our society. You also mentioned the communication with the organizers and the participants and gave examples such as the distress to go to Ter Kamenbos and the warning via drones to clear the site before intervention was taken. So the people knew the park would be evacuated. I cannot therefore understand those who deliberately ignored the appeals of the government and the police and sought confrontation with the police. I have even less sympathy for the people who were present with the intention of fighting. I also remember you saying that 12 people were taken to the hospital, which is regrettable in the midst of a health crisis. In Kamerenbos is a public space, and it was indeed difficult to close that Saturday to the general public, as there were many other people and families who simply came to enjoy the park in their own bubble. It is a pity that these people have had to go home and, in a way, have been the victims of the irresponsible behaviour of the people who organised the event. With regard to the images on social media about the police violence that has also taken place, it is a good thing that an internal investigation should be carried out to better understand exactly what has happened. As far as La Boum 3 is concerned, for which an application has been submitted to the city of Brussels, it is clear from your answers that it is again about a protest action, in which one is not interested to discuss it or intends to submit a dossier as a test event. As far as these test events are concerned, I would argue that priority should be given to the regular event sector in order to be able to organise them. What if La Boum 3 would go on? That remains the question. I hope that the reopening of the catering industry and any other relaxations will allow more social contact so that people can partly regain their freedom. After all, these protests indicate that people are no longer able, it is too much for everyone and we all crave our ordinary, old lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u18	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. You said investigations are under way, which makes me happy. I hope these will bear fruit. As far as Boum 3 is concerned, I am quite surprised that the dialogue is going back to the local authorities. I think you must be in it and this one is important. This will allow you to show a strong signal to organizers and citizens who can't. Some colleagues have already mentioned this. The Bois de la Cambre must no longer experience new episodes worthy of a battlefield. In my view, this type of demonstration needs to be better framed. The proactive approach is the best in my view, as the escalation of violence is not an answer. There are different ways to manage an event. The one used in Boum 1 and 2 does not seem to be the best. My colleague mentioned an event in the Netherlands. I've told you about events in Liege. It seems to me that consideration must also be given to the management and management of this type of event in view of the current situation. I count on you to play a more important role, a kind of strong link between the different levels concerned. As you said, you are not the only one who can and must make decisions. However, I believe that you can be a pillar of dialogue and decision-making. I count on you to take part and be a strong personality of the Boum 3 event. I hope that you will do what is necessary and that you will continue this prevention campaign, as conducted at this event last Saturday, as the difficulty of understanding this kind of event is great. Thank you for the energy you will be willing to devote to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u19	Madam Minister, people may gather in the parks, but that must be done in a peaceful way, with respect for everyone present there. In these times, of course, we must continue to follow the COOVID-19 rules. Anyone who pleads for the closure of the Ter Kamerenbos, who doesn't know what that park is like. It's actually an outskirts of the Sunny Forest that starts in Hoeilaart and flows through Uccle and Saint Genesius-Rode into the Ter Kamerenbos. It's just not possible to shut down all that forest. What we always see at demonstrations, not only at La Boum, but also at other demonstrations, for example last year in Poelaertplein, is that there is always a small group of rioters present who spoil it for everyone. If they also bring weapons to beat the police with them or if they force the police to intervene, then that is a big problem. Those people absolutely need to be identified. I have said here several times that it is time to equip the police with the existing technology. The police are asking party to wear bodycams and also the drones with facial recognition are interesting. This needs to be a testing ground to easily deploy facial recognition technologies and identify those people. They must be brought to justice quickly, not only after days or weeks but within 48 hours. Rapid justice must be applied on the ground so that these youth gangs can be tackled. These are not only youth gangs from Brussels, they are also from Hainaut, Antwerp and Limburg. Those people only come here to make a riot, so they need to be dealt with strictly. After all, they spoiled everything for the 99% of our society that means well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u20	Minister, I'm puzzled. Yes, the number of police officers and stewards had been significantly increased, but as I told you in plenary, it is really the intervention strategy that needs to be changed. Again, I feel sorry for our police officers for being so misled by the local authorities. Managing a crisis situation with firmness and common sense is not to let 2,000 people agglutinate in disregard of health rules, look at them for two hours and suddenly decide, when it derails – allow me the expression – to go into the pile. This is not firmness, it is a blind and disproportionate reaction. In two hours of time, there was a way to identify and exfiltrate the thirty breakers that set the powders on fire. I repeat to my colleagues, the momentary closure of this part of the Bois de la Cambre where the Boum takes place is quite possible. It is a matter of political will. I grew up in the Bois de la Cambre. From my youth to today, I spend most of my spare time there. I know all the corners of the Bois de la Cambre and I see very well how this part of the wood is located. There is, of course, a way to close this circumscribed part. It's just a matter of political will. That being said, I appeal to everyone to be responsible. I have three teenagers at home who spend a lot of time in the parks of Brussels, in the Bois de la Cambre as well. But on that day, they didn't go to the Bois de la Cambre. They didn't go into the wolf's mouth because they knew there would be incidents. I call for the responsibility of the organizers, who, as soon as this derails, wash their hands and specify in the press that they are not organizers, but "initiators of an awareness". The good joke! It's the arson fireman's tactic. It seems that the collective bears its name by propelling so many people to the abyss, followed in this by the leaders of other collectives who are then surprised, in the media, to be trapped in tear gas despite repeated warnings. It's at the best of unconsciousness, at the worst of irresponsibility. Dialogue with young people, yes! Three times yes! A thousand times yes! Organize a demonstration for our freedoms, yes. Three times yes! A thousand times yes! This is fundamental in our democracy. Others went on – I would say again – on the same day, in Brussels, Liège or elsewhere. But it's nothing other than organizing chaos. It is high time that everyone in their role could come together again. It will not be with a Boum 3, 4, 5 that dialogue and social cohesion will be ensured. Respect must be restored: respect for citizens, respect for young people, but also for the authorities and the police, who are under severe strain. We are, until proven otherwise, in a rule of law. Anarchy is not my model.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u21	Mr. President, Minister, the financing of the pre-pension non-activity mechanism (NAPAP) for former gendarmes is a matter of great attention for local authorities and police areas. For these authorities, it is a matter of not weighing the additional costs of this federal decision on the shoulders of the municipalities, whether through the financing of the areas or through a drain on the solidarized fund of the provincial and local administrations (APL). You have on various occasions been able to respond to the concerns of local authorities in this area by ensuring that a solution is sought within the framework of budgetary control. I believe that we are coming to the end of this exercise. Minister, can you tell us what is the status of the case? You announced in the press that resources had been found. Can you tell us exactly when these will be available for the areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u22	Mr. President, Minister, federal NAPAP funding for police areas is essential, if not indispensable, for the proper functioning of the local police force. I will not go back to the history of this issue, but I will just recall that, at the end of 2019, I tabled a bill to ensure full funding of the NAPAP system and its incremental costs for 2020, which had allowed the system to be funded by the previous government in an emergency. For 2020, in addition, the potential additional cost (beyond 46 million) had been met by the federal police through adjustments to its appropriations. When you took up your duties, I asked you about this. In February, you told me that you were planning this funding as part of the budget changes, which was not very reassuring given your first responses last year. Minister, can you confirm to me that this federal funding, with its additional costs, is now planned for 2021? How much was specifically allocated in 2020, taking into account the additional costs? What amount is committed in the budget for 2021? On the basis of what criteria has this amount been determined? Has any communication been made to the financial directorates of the areas of the country? What is the source of this funding? What structural measures are currently under consideration to anticipate the coming years, as part of a sustainable system of financing this end-of-care adjustment for our police officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u23	Colleagues Taquin and Senesael, I have recently given a reply on this subject to colleague Joy Donné. The federal funding of NAPAP to police areas was indeed discussed in the context of the budgetary control of 2021. The government has decided to maintain the grant to the local authorities and to provide funding of €32.9 million for 2021. These funds will be made available as soon as the Court approves the budget control. A grant decision is being prepared in which, as in recent years, a grant can be applied for by local police areas on a quarterly basis. In view of the timing of budgetary control, the first two quarters will of course be dealt with together. Today, it is a federal government funding the actual additional cost to local police areas, namely the payment of waiting treatment to effectively resuming non-activity. However, unlike previous years, this is directly funded by the federal Treasury. There is therefore no transfer of the local pension fund, therefore no indirect financing by the local authorities. In 2020, €77.6 million was paid to local police areas, of which €46.1 million was financed by the local pension fund. This means a net funding of 31.5 million euros from the Federal Treasury. Mr Vandenput, as has been said, more is being transferred from the federal level to the local authorities in 2021 than last year. In 2021, the net transfer of the federal level will be 32.9 million euros. In 2020 this transfer amounted to 31.5 million euros and in the years 2016 to 2019 it amounted to 0 euros each year. In those years, the federal minister supported local authorities by transferring money from the local government pension fund. The budgetary transfers thus remained within the so-called entity II, which, of course, only strengthened the precarious budgetary situation of the pension fund, with all the consequences for the contributions of local authorities. An additional problem was the underlying subsidy scheme. Anyone who was entitled to the NAVAP was subsidised, regardless of whether the person actually took it. This meant that the federal government, by transferring from the pension fund of the local governments, was subsidising the salary costs of active staff. As the subsidy amount was too limited, not all police areas could be subsidised from the third quarter onwards. This is why the adadium first come first served was used. The federal government wants to put an end to this illogical subsidy scheme. The subsidy for local authorities is limited to the waiting money and effective to the persons taking up the non-activity. Local authorities no longer finance the non-activity of their staff themselves, as the federal government developed this non-activity scheme in 2015. As far as your second question is concerned, on 31 December 2020, 595 people were effectively present in the NAVAP set, 664 people who were eligible for the NAVAP system were still working at that time. Of course, this number varies every month. Non-active persons disappear from the scheme when effectively taking up their pension and the NAVAP rights holders may still take up effective non-activity at a later date. Over the years, it has been established that on average 47% of rightholders took up non-activity. This means that 53 % remained active, although they could be covered by the system. Last year, a strict grant control was applied by the federal police services. This has resulted in a limited number of corrections to the subsidies applied for. As far as your last question is concerned, a budget forecast was drawn up until 2024. In the case of the same grant and NAVAP scheme, the subsidy cost evolves to around 41.5 million in 2024. On the basis of the current rules, any staff member entitled to a preferential pension on 30 April 1999 may take up NAVAP. The scheme should therefore have been developed by approximately 2039.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u24	Madam Minister, I hear that the resources that have been made available help to preserve the solidarized pension fund for local agents, which is an excellent thing, and I welcome it. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the municipalities in the country remain cautious about possible additional costs that would remain at their expense. As our group has stated on many occasions, the financing of police areas is a heavy burden in local finances. It does not seem normal to us to make the municipalities bear the financial burden of decisions on which they do not have to take decisions. These amounts are therefore, of course, welcome. But, subject to further analysis, there may be additional efforts to be made. In any event, we will remain attentive to the structural answers that you will propose to the NAPAP question, even if I mean that financial resources are programmed and planned until 2024. Indeed, police areas and local authorities need clarity in establishing budgets for a service essential to the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear the budget is limited. I also hear that the source of funding is different and will be able to relieve local authorities, which I welcome. But I remain concerned about the additional costs and I fear that if the federal government does not intervene to cover the full cost of NAPAPs, the municipalities must intervene at some point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u26	Madam Minister, I am very pleased that progress has been made on this dossier, not just paying NAVAP to the local police areas, but above all that two things are being corrected. Firstly, the zones with people who are on NAVAP, but still work on the ground, should not have NAVAP. They can pay for it themselves. That's finally come out. Secondly, there is no transfer from the local pension fund. After all, it was the municipalities that financed it. That's solved, too. We have already gone from a bad arrangement to a better one. Hopefully these matters will be taken further into account in a definitive solution in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u27	Mr President, Madam Minister, on Wednesday 21 April, ARTE released a documentary fiction about the disappearance of Luxembourg, entitled An Zero, how Luxembourg disappeared. The aim of this documentary is to imagine the impact of a major nuclear accident at the Cattenom nuclear power plant in France, located 25 kilometres from Luxembourg City but also 35 kilometres from Arlon. The documentary starts on a background of controversy, since the co-director, Myriam Tonelotto, withdrew from the project by denouncing the catastrophist tour taken by the film and the choices that are moving away from the original project, which was as much intended to promote Luxembourg as to draw attention to the risks associated with the plants. Of course, the impact of such an incident on the country would be considerable and it can reasonably be assumed that the entire country would not recover from it. As the documentary fiction points out, it is in this area of possible exclusion that the majority of the Luxembourg population resides and that the institutions and the majority of enterprises are located. Beyond the many improbabilities noted in the film, this documentary-fiction allows me to take a reasonable look at how the province of Luxembourg is prepared for this kind of event. Minister, what is the evaluation of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCCA) regarding nuclear safety at the Cattenom site? Have you or your predecessor already shared any critical observations with the French Government or the French Nuclear Safety Authority (NSA) regarding the nuclear safety of this plant? Could Belgium join Luxembourg's request to call for the shutdown of the Cattenom nuclear power plant for failing safety reasons? Can you assure us that the province of Luxembourg has a specific emergency and operational response plan, including in the event of a nuclear accident in Cattenom? Are PPU officials in operation in this province specially trained for a nuclear accident? What is the risk zone in Belgium for the Cattenom power plant? What is the percentage of Iodine tablets removed from the pharmacy in this Belgian area near Cattenom? How many decontamination devices for vehicles and persons leaving this area do we have in the province of Luxembourg? Finally, in the event of an evacuation following a nuclear accident in Cattenom, where would the reception capacity in the province of Luxembourg be provided?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u28	Madam Minister, in 1979 I was fighting with young people from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and Belgian Luxembourg against the construction of this nuclear power plant. We didn't win the battle and the power plant was built. ARTE recently released a very interesting but far too catastrophic documentary in my opinion. When I saw how the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg would disappear from the map, I thought that Belgian Luxembourg would also disappear. Arlon is located 40 kilometres from the Cattenom power station. When I was a Walloon Member of Parliament, I had asked the Belgian representatives of the Greater Region to support the request of the Luxembourg Government, which asked the French authorities to close this plant. Our greatest wish is for this plant to be firm, but I know it's not that obvious. The fear of the Luxembourg Prime Minister is fuelled by objective elements, including reports from experts who fear that France has not learned the lessons of the Chernobyl and Fukushima events and that Cattenom has major safety deficiencies. Luxembourg would even be prepared to contribute financially to the closure of this plant. Minister, are you aware of this file? Did you have it evaluated by the AFCN? Have you ever talked about this within the government or with representatives of the French and Luxembourg governments? Have any decisions been or will be taken on this matter today? Had the file been reviewed by your predecessor? Had any initiatives been taken by him? Do you think you can support the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in its wish to see the plant at Cattenom closed? Is a disaster plan now ready in Belgium to intervene in the province of Luxembourg in the event of a nuclear accident in Cattenom? If not, do you plan to prepare one? With regard to iodine capsules, I was told that they were not available in pharmacies but that the emergency zone was responsible for distributing them in the event of a nuclear accident. Madam Minister, I am counting on you to support the Luxembourg government in resolving this problem quite quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, nuclear safety is a national competence for which each national safety authority is responsible. In the case of France, this is the Nuclear Safety Authority. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency maintains good contacts with the ASN and the ASN regularly informs it of ongoing cases as well as events that may have an impact on the safety of French nuclear installations close to our borders, including the Chooz, Gravelines and Cattenom nuclear power plants. It is neither the role nor the competence of the AFCN to establish a comprehensive assessment of the level of safety of a foreign nuclear facility, much less to require its closure. The Cattenom power plant is not located in an emergency planning area of 20 kilometres for nuclear power plants, as defined in the Nuclear and Radiological Emergency Plan for Belgian territory. This area covers the vast majority of possible accident scenarios, including the most serious. However, the province of Luxembourg is located in the 100 km extension zone of Cattenom for possible protection and taking iodine tablets should a situation arise that could have consequences outside the emergency planning area. This means that it is not necessary to draw up a specific emergency and response plan, but that it is possible to react on the basis of the Governor's general emergency and response plan, together with certain specific nuclear preparations, in particular with regard to the possible use of iodine tablets. Emergency planning coordinators are in continuous training. The services of the Governor of Luxembourg participate in the exercises for the Tihange nuclear power plant. The first one took place on March 17 of this year and the next one will take place on June 29. They also participated in the nuclear transport exercise organized by the AFCN on 24 September 2019. With regard to iodine tablets, several thousand cans were distributed, some to communities and others to individuals. One pack of iodine tablets covers the needs of four people. With regard to the decontamination of persons, in addition to the mobile civil protection decontamination lines and the additional capabilities of the Defence, reception centres with a fixed shower capacity are an option. Civil Protection has eight decontamination lines with a capacity of 160 valid persons per hour. In the event of an evacuation following a nuclear accident in Cattenom, reception centres, schools and omnisport halls will be designated, taking into account the specific circumstances and the general emergency and intervention plan of the province of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u30	Minister, I listened carefully to your answer. I hear that we would be within a 100-kilometre radius that does not require a planning area but an extension area. This is extremely worrying as the reality is quite different. At bird flight we are 35 or 40 kilometers from Cattenom. Oldness, beyond the implausibility of the documentary, is real. I stay a little on my hunger and I'm really surprised at the realities. As for the dialogue between the two agencies, the French NSA and the AFCN, regular contacts are not sufficient. Knowledge on the ground seems necessary. It's a way of reacting before it's too late. I will review the regulations and see how I can follow this file. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u31	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, but I still insist on the problem of the presence of this plant, which, according to some, would have significant safety deficiencies. I would urge you, Madam Minister, to put this issue on the agenda of one of your meetings with your Luxembourg colleagues. When a television channel like ARTE publishes and broadcasts what was broadcast about two weeks ago, the population panics, and we must be able to reassure it. I have already explained to them that according to the information I received, the iodine pills would be distributed through the emergency zone. But I really believe that we need to go a little further and show that we really take this issue seriously. This risk and danger are real there. Indeed, I told you, from the heights of my commune, we see the vapors of this plant. I do believe that the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and Belgian Luxembourg are in the same area in the event of an accident in this plant. Thank you for taking this situation seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u32	Mr President, Minister, the special field guards are in principle your responsibility, but they also have a limited role in the Flemish regulations, particularly as regards the hunting regime. On 10 July 2019, a new ministerial decision was taken to implement the amended statute of the special officers, but many of these officers seem to have a lot of questions. That is why I believe it is important to be able to define a stricter and better mandate for these particular officers. Today they take a training course and take an exam, and then afterwards they find that they hardly get to work, unless they volunteer. It therefore seems important to me that we should be able to clarify this. Either we continue as we do today, and we create expectations among many of them that we will eventually not be able to live up to in the field, while after training they hope to be effectively employed in some form or another. Either we should abolish all these training courses and report that it is considered purely voluntary work, but not professionally. I have a number of questions about that. How do you see the status of the Special Guardian? Do you believe that a full range of tasks can be put together for him to be effectively employed? Do you think it would be useful to discuss this with your regional colleague, Minister Demir, given the connection with the Flemish regulations? How do you see the role of the provincial authorities in the whole story, as they also dare to engage these special officers in provincial domains? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u33	Mr President, Mr Moyaers, the legal basis for the role of Special Guardian is included in the field code. Based on the information I have, it appears that approximately 900 special field guards are still active in our country. From time to time there are voices to abolish the function of special field guard. This would mean that private individuals would have to use the private security sector to protect private domains and goods. Governments should call on regional regulators to enforce their regulations. In order to clarify this situation, I am instructing my services to carry out a thorough evaluation of the status and tasks of the special officers, in consultation with the provincial governors. In doing so, the potential task tension between the special field guards and the regional supervisors is a focus on which further consultations can be held with regional ministers. So I am not taking a stand now, but I would be happy to return to this matter after the consultation round.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u34	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for your answer and for consulting the provincial governors and state ministers on this issue. My idea of the special rangers is, as I have already said in my question, that they should be taken effectively seriously for enforcement in the open space and that they should be given a precise job description for that purpose. If not, the Statute will be better abolished. For the record, I am in favour of the first option. A special ranger in the open space may be best compared to a community guard in a city or municipality. Apart from the difference in training, I think that comparison is the most obvious for the average citizen. I think that special rangers absolutely deserve more appreciation and should have more opportunities to be engaged and even employed for those particular tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u35	Madam Minister, drawing up strategic security and prevention plans, abbreviated SVPP, is currently accompanied by a particularly high administrative workload, which is not always in proportion to the subsidies received by municipalities. In your policy statement, you yourself announced that this legislature would be working on the reform of that SVPP. That is only to be welcomed. Cities and municipalities have for a long time been asking themselves for a reform of this. There is a great need for objective and transparent criteria, on the one hand for allocating an SVPP, on the other hand for allocating resources. However, there is also concern. The intention to start this process from January 2022 is now suddenly coming so fast that local authorities are not prepared for it. Like the Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities, the VVSG, local authorities indicate that they have not yet been consulted and of course regret that. However, it is just as important that local authorities are consulted at least through the VVSG. Local authorities have had experience in this matter for about two decades now. Like no other, they face possible pitfalls. Will you involve them quickly in the reform of the whole system? Do you expect this to involve major changes in the annual budget? The budget discussions for 2022 are starting to start. Who will possibly experience the greatest differences in the positive or negative sense? Especially in larger cities, it's about nice sums of money. Will you also consult the VVSG?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u36	In order to ensure the future of strategic safety and prevention plans, objective criteria need to be developed, both for the selection of cities and municipalities and for the allocation of resources. I have already mentioned this in my policy paper. The Home Affairs Administration also immediately started working on this. The VVSG, the UVCW and Brulocalis, will also be involved in the preparation of the new cycle of those strategic safety and prevention plans. My services have also used the route in consultation with the associations of cities and municipalities. It goes without saying that a change in the criteria of allocation and distribution can also have a positive or negative financial impact on the municipalities currently benefiting from this funding. I cannot anticipate the outcome and decision of the government on this matter today, but it is certainly a subject that will be followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u37	It is good to hear that the consultation with the VVSG has already started at least. It is important that local authorities can provide input on the content of the new plans. In the end, they have the necessary experience in this matter. Like no other, they know the strengths and weaknesses of the whole system. In addition, local authorities should be informed as soon as possible with a view to the annual budget negotiations. This way they can better plan their own future prospects. They must therefore be informed in good time in order to be able to set the budgets for 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u38	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55016764C by Mrs Daems. She's not here. Her question is therefore without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u39	Mr Cogolati, thank you for your questions. On Wednesday, 21 April, during a test on a secondary circuit in Tihange 2, one of the supply valves closed unexpectedly. This event led to an automatic shutdown of the installation due to a decrease in the water level in the steam generators concerned, as expected in such cases. This event did not have any impact on workers' health, the population or the environment. For the automatic shutdown on Saturday, April 24, the operator and the Federal Nuclear Control Agency are conducting their analysis. Nevertheless, we can establish that the automatic shutdown which took place during the restart is not technically linked to the judgment of 21 April. AFCN tells me that two INES analyses are under way for these two events, as foreseen in the technical regulation of 5 July 2019. If their result is greater than zero, the AFCN will communicate on this subject. Technically, there is also no relationship between these events, those of 21 November last year and 19 January last. Since the analysis is still under way, I cannot give you any more information. A low level of water in steam generators may result from other events. In the previous five years, three similar cases occurred: in Tihange 2 in 2016, Tihange 3 in 2017 and Doel 4 in the same year. In practice, a low level of water in the generator indicates an insufficient amount of water to evacuate the heat produced by the heart via this circuit. The unit then responded correctly by automatically shutting down the reactor. For its part, the heart continued to be cooled by the other circuits provided for this purpose. This event did not have any impact on safety, workers, the population or the environment. I can also reassure you that there is no relationship between the hydrogen microbulles in the tank and these two stops linked to the water supply of the secondary circuit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u40	Madam Minister, thank you for your long and comprehensive response, which reassured me of the lack of connection with hydrogen bubbles. I would like to ask you again about the results of the INES analyses, if they show that these incidents exceed zero.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u41	Mr President, Minister, on 5 May Belgium will be subjected for the third time to the Universal Periodic Review of the UN Human Rights Council. As a result, Amnesty International has produced a report with some concerns and recommendations. The report contains a report on the extent to which our country fulfilled its commitments from the previous Universal Periodic Review. The report also shows where human rights in our country are still being violated or insufficiently protected. For example, Amnesty International's report states that ethnic profiling by the police, which is a violation of the right not to be discriminated against, remains a problem. Let me quote from the report: "The Amnesty investigation shows that police officers recognise that the practice exists and that the legal and policy framework for police decision-making does not provide sufficient guidance. Although there are many testimonies, the full extent of the problem is difficult to estimate as the authorities fail to collect thorough and broken down data. In particular, the lack of data on identity checks hinders an adequate response to the problem." Amnesty International also makes recommendations in the report. With regard to ethnic profiling, she calls on the federal government to amend the law on police by explicitly prohibiting direct and indirect discrimination and explicitly prohibiting ethnic profiling. It also calls for policy and practice to take steps to combat ethnic profiling and to register police identity checks and collect data to control and investigate their use. More recently, the UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination has confirmed that Belgium must take action against ethnic profiling. First, the Committee calls for the adoption of an action plan against racial profiling, as well as the establishment of an independent complaints system or the use of forms specifying the reasons for monitoring and available remedies. Secondly, CERD is waiting for our country to take steps to ensure prompt, complete and impartial investigations into racist incidents involving police officers and to ensure that those responsible are prosecuted. The Committee also addressed the problem of crimes and racist hate speech. In that regard, he asked our country to provide information on prosecutions and convictions in that regard. Lastly, while CERD noted with satisfaction the establishment of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, it nevertheless called on our country to take the necessary measures to enable that institution to deal with individual complaints, including cases of linguistic discrimination. Minister, what action will be taken on these recommendations? Will the collection of data and the registration of complaints against racist hate crimes and speech be improved? In cases of police violence, will prompt, thorough, impartial and punitive investigations – if necessary – soon become a reality? Will the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights soon be able to deal with individual complaints?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u42	Mr President, Madam Minister, I do not go back at length to the context set by my colleagues, which leads to the questions that you are being asked today. An important chapter of the report is devoted to the attitude of our police in this area. As you know, our group did not wait for this report to raise this issue and to ask you about the attitude, training and actions to be taken with regard to our police. The Chovanec case has also highlighted, through the issue of the treatment of transmigrants, various cases that are pointed out as revealing a problematic attitude within our police. As my colleagues have mentioned, the Committee proposes a series of recommendations to combat this phenomenon. These were pointed out and highlighted by Amnesty International. Minister, have you read this report? I guess so. How do you view the recommendations put forward by this body of the United Nations? What follow-up are you considering giving them? What initiatives do you intend to take following the release of this report?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u43	Mr President, Mrs Platteau, your question concerns Amnesty International's recommendations. At present, I do not have enough data to speak of a structural problem of ethnic profiling within the police forces. In any case, any alleged discrimination by police officers is taken seriously and inappropriate behaviour or statements, including ethnic profiling, of a very small proportion of police personnel are, of course, being combated. The Police Office Act states that staff must respect human rights and fundamental freedoms and undertake to enforce them. The deontological code of the police forces reiterates this and explicitly states that staff must refrain from any form of discrimination and from any form of bias. I support that, of course, and of course I support it as much as possible. I also closely monitor the practical application of these clear and binding rules. My cabinet has also recently received the Stop Ethnic Profiling platform to listen to the recommendations in this area, including in the framework of the National Action Plan against Racism. We are taking concrete steps to counter alleged ethnic profiling. This is done through training, the exemplary role of leadership, the pursuit of the right organisational culture and a permanent focus on human rights. The police are also working on operational instructions and their follow-up through coaching and monitoring. An internal directive 'Professional control for the integrated police' is currently being prepared with regard to its integration into the various training courses. Recent academic insights will also be taken into account, for example the doctoral study on identity checks by Mrs Saudelli's police, which was presented last week. We're in touch with her, by the way. I have read the report of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination of 30 April 2021 on the report of Belgium. This one has caught my full attention. Following a first reading, I note that the recommendations address known concerns. Initiatives to this end are already under way and are in line with my policy statement or have already been integrated into the police organization. The recommendations will be analysed and will involve all relevant stakeholders. The prevention of abusive behaviour contrary to rights and freedoms requires adequate training of police personnel. This training plays an essential role in respecting the legal framework, the values of integrated police, and in acquiring the skills and attitudes necessary to carry out police missions in a professional manner. Legislation on the prohibition of racism and discrimination is also subject to specific training at the disposal of members of the police services. Many awareness-raising activities are organized in this area through various means of communication. Several of these training courses on diversity and intercultural communication are delivered by and/or in collaboration with external partners active in the promotion of human rights, such as the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities. The "Holocaust, Police and Human Rights" training, organized in partnership with Caserne Dossin, addresses in particular the mechanisms leading to the polarization and impact of this phenomenon on the work of the police and its relationship with the population. The themes of diversity and non-discrimination are considered a priority in the field of police training. I fully share CERD's recommendation on a national plan of action to combat racism. This work is already under way. Following an inter-ministerial conference held in July 2020, a multidisciplinary working group, including representatives of line ministers, police, integrated police and NGOs, is currently working on a national anti-racism plan. The police services participate and contribute constructively to this work and the technical working groups are in the final stages. The political decision-making process will follow the usual process. I'll come back to you in good time. At the same time, the integrated police are working in particular on the establishment of an action plan to combat professional profiling on the basis of what has already been developed in certain police areas. The local police areas of Antwerp, Malines, Willebroek, Ghent and Brussels Nord jointly developed a framework for professional profiling. This framework provides tools to promote the professionalism of police controls in which respectful communication, legal basis and values play a central role. I support the commitment of the integrated police to include this framework of action in the basic training of police inspectors aspirants and, subsequently, in the GPI 48 on violence-control training and training of police service operational personnel. The supervision of the exercise of police duties and their complaints shall be exercised and evaluated by means of control mechanisms and bodies at the level of the three powers established, namely the P Committee, the judicial authorities and the AIG. Depending on the case, they shall act and, where appropriate, take the necessary corrective measures. Those responsible shall be prosecuted and disciplinaryly punished as far as possible. I cannot comment on the criminal law aspect, nor on the appropriate compensation of the victims. Ms. Song, with regard to improving the procedure and tools for registering complaints of racist hate crimes and speech, the reflection continues in the context of the revision of Circular COL 13/2013. Indeed, following the recommendations of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights and the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR), this circular is being improved. A working group led by the Equal Opportunities Unit of the SPF Justice and composed of judges, Unia, local and federal police was appointed to do so. Finally, I would like to point out that the recommendations made by CERD are addressed to the various entities of the Belgian State and not only to my Office. The recommendation on the usefulness of knowing the ethnic composition of the Belgian population, for example, requires an amendment of the legislation to allow the collection of ethnic data, even on a voluntary basis, and to make it compatible with the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). It is not for me, within the framework of the autonomy of the federated entities, to comment on the possible decision of the Flemish entity to leave in 2023 the cooperation agreement regulating the creation and operation of Unia. Where appropriate, the loss of income claimed may be compensated through federal subsidies or the National Lottery. Regarding the possibility for the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights to deal with individual complaints, I refer you to my colleague the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u44	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I'm not entirely convinced. I am a little surprised because you say that you do not have enough data to speak of a structural problem, whereas the Amnesty International report just reveals that there is a structural problem and prevents racism and discrimination by the police in practice. It is also confirmed by the UN Committee. Allow me to say that I do not think it is a satisfactory answer if you say that you do not have sufficient information. You say that all forms of discrimination are dealt with, referring to the law on police duty, to the code of ethics and to training. I think that is all very important. I am also in favour of training the police on human rights, anti-discrimination and anti-racism. But that is how you individualise the problem, whereas the reports show that it is a structural problem that also needs a structural solution. The question is whether the current measures you are proposing are sufficient. I would dare to question that and insist that we think about it. Should we not better frame or ban ethnic profiling by the police, so that when police officers enter an identity check, they can justify why they do so and this is also more registered? I am in favour of that. Dank u.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u45	Minister, thank you for your various information. I agree with the fact that my colleague has just drawn up. You're talking about a lack of data. I can tell you that different institutions and associations do, however, make the same observation, and speak with a unanimous voice of a structural problem within our police system. Today, you are talking about training, an appropriate culture, coaching, monitoring. I had asked you to do that. I am pleased to hear that you are moving forward on a whole series of issues and proposals. I hope to see the concrete result as soon as possible. I believe, however, that beyond that, we must go further. If one can objectiveize a structural problem, then one must be able to propose solutions far more structural than a simple coaching or a simple course that becomes compulsory in the training of aspirant inspector. We need to think further than that which has already begun, so that we can answer a whole series of questions that are raised in reports such as those of the United Nations, Amnesty International, or associations that exist on our territory. They talk about police violence, racism within the police, ethnic profiling. These associations already have a whole series of solutions to offer. I believe that today our role is to study them and perhaps to conduct hearings on this subject. In any case, we must show the will to structurally adapt our police services, because there are probably more complicated and entrenched dysfunctions than one would expect. It is not just training that will solve these problems. I thank you, however, for all the proposals you are working on, as well as for your dynamism and your willingness to change the scope of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u46	Minister, to date, there is no legal framework that allows a person under police control to know the reason for this. To date, we must note, as the report mentions, that racial profiling by the police remains a persistent problem in Belgium and that there is no law explicitly prohibiting racial profiling. This finding is not raised by a few citizens. It's not short-term. This is a fact that comes from the UN report, as my colleagues have pointed out, but it also comes from other associations and institutions known for their strength and follow-up, whether it is Unia or Amnesty International. Minister, we need to open our eyes and engage in a real policy of change because, in our police, there are behaviors that are still well present and too present. These are behaviors of only a few, I hope, that harm the police, that generate a lack of trust among our fellow citizens and that primarily harm women and men who are victims of these behaviours that do not belong in our police. Belgium is committed to putting in place an inter-federal action plan against racism which you have just mentioned and which was started at the beginning of the year. You have to press the accelerator. We need to move forward and make it a priority. As you said, you have to select, train and punish. We must also have the boldness now to reform and frame so that, in the future, we can have much more positive and commendable reports from the United Nations and other entities, of which we can be proud. Madam Minister, thank you. I have no doubt that you will make it a priority and that you will have the audacity to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u47	Madam Minister, I think that at the moment we can only say that we are pleased that you are working on it. I am very curious about the concrete effects. The police must, of course, be able to do their job, but there must also be a justification for why someone is doing something. If a citizen thinks that something has happened wrong or wants more explanation as to why something has happened, then the citizen should be able to ask the question. If citizens feel that they have been treated unfairly, they should also be able to lodge a complaint. I was therefore surprised by the recommendation of independent complaint handling. In my view, we have the necessary bodies in Belgium to deal with this. I am very curious to see what they think is wrong and what can be done better. I think we should just follow the work and follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u48	Mr President, Mrs Chanson, the reference in the government agreement to the fight against discrimination and hate crimes is a theme managed by the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. In this context, the concrete elaboration of the National Plan against Racism is the responsibility of the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, Mrs Schlitz, in collaboration with all the authorities, the bodies and departments concerned at the federal and federal levels. With regard to the steps and timetables set out in this plan, I would therefore refer you to the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. With regard specifically to the police, I can already point out that it will of course endorse the NAPAR's objectives relating to its police operation. The aim is to bring both the Comprehensive Security Note and the National Security Plan into line with the previous thematic plan. The National Security Plan, which is the strategic plan of the federal police and the integrated police operation, will incorporate the police objectives of the NAPAR, including the reference to this inter-federal action plan. Since these are also offences, police actions are guided by the courts and, in particular, by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Management-related subjects, on the other hand, fall within my area of competence. The challenge is therefore to harmonize the different strategic plans, their ongoing processes and, above all, their content. Indeed, all plans are currently in full development. Harmonization with regard to police objectives in the fight against discrimination, racism and hate crimes is under way and the aim is for the Ministers of Justice and the Interior to validate, in the coming weeks, the plan of the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities with regard to the police objectives contained in the NAPAR. This will, of course, be done in close consultation with the federal and local police services. For those of the Comprehensive Security Framework Note and the National Security Plan, this is a dual responsibility of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior respectively. Inter-federal consultation is also necessary to this end. Moreover, these plans are obviously not limited to the problems of discrimination, racism and hate crimes. The objective is to have both safety plans approved in the fall of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u49	Minister, thank you for this information. I also look forward to the answers to my written questions, which will no doubt complement what you have just given me. I will not fail to question the Secretary of State for answers to the second part of my question, which relates rather to her competencies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u50	Madam Secretary, I think we all welcome the fact that our vaccination is coming more and more at cruising speed. My question is about the degree of vaccination in the police. A few months ago, the Task Force on Vaccination in the Integrated Police developed a strategy to deal with vaccination in the different police forces. A logic was used, which I can certainly follow, which left the workshop rather than the place of residence of the police officer in question. Now, at no-shows in local vaccination centres, certain professions such as kindergarten girls, but also policemen, are on the list. In a way, this goes through the vaccination strategy that the integrated police had set out. For a good understanding, I am very happy that these people are vaccinated faster because it would be a pity that vaccines are lost. I do wonder how this goes through the police's vaccination strategy, and whether there is still a complete overview of who has been vaccinated within the police forces, and when and where. Do you have any idea of the vaccination rate in the local police? What's the vaccination rate with the federal police? Has there been an effective distinction between first and second lines, as was once proposed at the beginning of the strategy definition? What impact does the fact that there is more vaccination locally, via the mentioned no-shows, have on the strategy envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u51	Mr President, Mrs Ingels, before addressing your specific questions, I would like to say the following. On any no-shows we have no sight because we are not allowed to keep that data and we are not allowed to register it. The GDPR does not allow to keep lists, because of the medical data contained in them. The numbers are also those of which the federal police themselves sent the invitation and got the confirmation. As far as the German-speaking Community is concerned, the list was completed in full and concerns 300 staff. Also in the Walloon Region, the list was fully completed, through two large vaccination centres, one in Ronquières and one in Bierset. A total of 8,155 police officers, including 3,546 federal police officers and 4,609 local police officers. In the Brussels-Capital Region there was one large vaccination centre on the Heizel. All priority policemen with residence in Brussels were vaccinated. In addition, the entire Brussels police zones were vaccinated and the movement for the federal police is currently catching up. These are staff members of the services housed in Brussels. The organisation operates through the DirCo in Brussels. At present, about 5,000 people are employed and their vaccination is almost complete. In the Flemish Region all priority staff were charged in the invitation system of ZorgVlaanderen and last week the invitations left. The policemen in the Flemish Region are vaccinated in the vaccination centre of their place of residence. As you pointed out, the distinction between the first line or the priority operational services and the second line is also retained in that sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u52	Madam Secretary, I understand you don't have a visual on the no-shows. My question was not whether you had a view on that either. It was about the fact that the strategy was crossed because there were local margins. The most important thing is that the vaccination is either completed or very advanced. That's good news for the policemen who take that extra risk of infection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u53	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55016972C) by Mrs Jadin and others: 5017000C by Mr De Smet will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u54	Mr President, Minister, last February I asked you a question about recruitment and police selection procedures. The answer you gave at the time was very optimistic and good. You confirmed that the recruitment of 1,600 new recruits was on schedule this year. The new selection procedure had yet to be activated, after agreement with the trade unions. That's what my questions are about. You announced that the new selection procedure would start in spring. Spring is coming to an end. Where are we on the rollout of this new selection procedure? Has this union meeting already taken place on this issue? If so, what stage are these talks at? A number of selection tests have already been deleted. Can you explain which tests have been specifically deleted? You are also talking about fast-track tests that will take only two weeks. This has already started in 2019. Can you explain when that system will or can come back into operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u55	Madam Secretary, the recruitment of 1600 aspirants to the police every year remains one of the eyecatchers from the government agreement and your policy letter. In the media last week, I found an anonymous testimony in which a detective indicated that the outflow of police officers is greater than the influx. The criticism became even harsher by saying that recruitment is insufficient and that we are too quickly satisfied. If I study the figures from the period 2016 to 2019 that I requested, I do not entirely agree with that. A net increase of 940 (2016), 560 (2017), 463 (2018) and 580 (2019) agents shows that the outflow is less than the inflow. But of course we're still a long way from the 1600 agents we have in mind every year. From previous committee meetings, you assured yourself that you would have confidence in achieving the target figure of 1600 new police inspectors in 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u56	Mr President, Mr Vandenput, the request for an opinion is currently being submitted to the Supervisory Body for police information. The COC will give its opinion on the correct application of the GDPR Regulation in the context of the new texts on the selection procedure. A response to this is expected in mid-May 2021. The texts on the selection rules and reserve management rules are currently being submitted to the trade unions for negotiation. A number of points are still under discussion. In the future selection concept, some tests have already been abolished, such as the group test and the post baking exercise. In concrete terms, the Recruitment and Selection Service will offer the police zones or federal services a pool of aspirants with the required minimum competences. From this group they can select their own successful candidates. It is therefore a major innovation with regard to the old concept, in which the aspirants were not recruited directly by the police zones or the federal units. In the past, aspirants had to complete the training with fruit before applying to a unit. Fast-track procedures are now closed and no longer on the agenda. After all, these procedures have cost a lot of capacity for a rather limited result, we can say. This was caused, among other things, by the absence of candidates. Moreover, the Recruitment and Selection Service was heavily dependent on the many other partners, making it difficult to respect the deadlines set at the beginning. The new recruitment concept is therefore on track and will also allow to recruit 1,600 inspectors from this year on. As long as the new concept has not been approved in a regulatory manner, the aspirants will still be recruited, but according to the old recruitment concept. All candidates who so far started the training in 2021 were thus recruited through the old system. At present 338 candidates started initial training in 2021, 174 in March and 164 in April. Of the 338 candidates that started this year, some were selected in 2020 and others in 2021. The new selection procedure will also make it possible to shorten the duration of the process. This can be done, in particular, by abolishing the selection committee and placing the emphasis on automated tests. Some selection tests will also be tailor-made for the integrated police. These tests are in full procurement procedure. As already mentioned, the new process provides for greater involvement of the areas and federal services where the candidate will end up, as well as a closer local-federal partnership. In addition, a permanent quality control will be set up. From now on, the appointing authority itself chooses the candidate for the unit. The laureate will therefore be more in line with the profile sought by the zone or federal service, not least because units can put themselves on the market with a certain profile, so that they can also attract the right candidates for their corps or for their unit. For this, the federal police have also provided a budget, so that the zones or federal units can develop their own marketing campaign. Finally, the former exemptions linked to the diploma will be abolished. As a result, each candidate will be re-assessed on the basis of the evaluation criteria. As far as diversity is concerned, we do not currently have an adequate picture of the problem. We know, of course, that the reflection of society is not being achieved, but we are currently lacking objective figures. A working group is currently considering proposals to better organise the diversity of the recruits in order to better monitor the evolution of diversity. It is considered whether this can also be incorporated into the new recruitment concept. At present, the duration of training is not an objective in itself. On the other hand, the focus is on the content of the initial training candidate inspector. Both the uniformity of training is a priority and the alignment of training with the future job in the field. Social expectations and trends to respond to new needs and needs will be taken into account. Candidates currently working with the police are aware that this police training is not equivalent to any diploma from regular education. The advantages of separate training are, on the one hand, the necessary flexibility in duration, but also the content of the training and the possibility of creating as diverse a workforce as possible. There are advantages and disadvantages to both systems. In countries where regular education is responsible for police education, there is obviously no salary paid to the aspirants either. Candidates are free to attend regular education before choosing the police. Candidates with a diploma in their pocket might consider a career switch a little easier. However, the integrated police can also profile themselves as an attractive employer and respond to the various challenges that are possible internally for people looking for new perspectives. The reform of police education will also examine the option of working with specializations in a modular way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u57	Madam Secretary, I am pleased that you reaffirm the number 1,600 and that the negotiations with the union are moving forward. So we're waiting for the COC's advice. I merely hope that these negotiations will be separate from the negotiations on the statute, which are currently under way and on which alarming things appear in the media on the trade union side. I hope you can keep both separate. For the rest, I look forward to the 1,600 newcomers who will join the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u58	Madam Minister, in my turn I would like to thank you for your very comprehensive answer to the many questions. I don't think you've missed a single question. You gave a pretty complete answer. It also reassures me that it will be possible to recruit 1,600 people in 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u59	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Raskin's 55017060 was converted into a written question. Mr Aouasti is not present, his question No. 55017080 is without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u60	Mr Depoostere, I cannot answer your first two questions, just like my colleague from the Justice Department. For practical reasons, such extensive statistical data, spread over several years and judicial districts, can only be communicated in response to a written question. Moreover, it is very difficult to provide reliable and complete figures on shopping aggression as a result of non-compliance with the corona measures. Addressing such facts falls within the competence of the local police and the local authorities. I also refer to my circular GPI 94a on the guidelines on the measures taken to combat the COVID-19 virus and on police monitoring which remains fully applicable in this area. The GPI COVID-19 Police Task Force has issued clear guidelines that are binding on the entire police landscape, in order to ensure a clear policy and uniform application during the corona crisis. One of the basic principles is to ensure the continued availability of police capacity for urgent police tasks. The provision of police assistance in the event of shop aggression is also one of those basic tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u61	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I regret that it seems very difficult to compile statistical data on this kind of aggression. It is not because there are no figures that the problem does not exist. In my question I referred to a survey of the trade union organization ACW among 21,000 shopkeepers, not very few of whom half claim that there is an increase in aggression. You're referring to your circular letter, Madam Secretary. This, of course, belongs to the basic package of a police succession. However, I think that the Minister of Justice should be able to play a role in this so that we can avoid a dismissal or, in the other case, speedy justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u62	Mrs Thibaut is not here. Her question No. 55017103C is therefore without an object.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u63	Mrs Platteau, the advance of extreme right-wing and right-wing extremism in today's Western society is unmistakable. All this goes hand in hand with a certain mainstreaming of extremist narratives, which often revolve around conspiracy theories such as the 'population' or 'white genocide'. On right-wing extremist fora, the call for action is growing worldwide. Supporters are called to arm themselves in advance or to train physically. A tendency is that ideology also increases among young people who are often well-educated. Identity movements at home and abroad provide training and summer courses, focusing specifically on an audience of young people. The Internet is an important catalyst in this process. Famous perpetrators of large-scale attacks were partly inspired, and social media also ensure that charismatic people have a lot of outreach and can encourage vulnerable people to take action. Through the Internet, right-wing extremist groups can work together worldwide. The Internet also makes it possible for those people to influence polarisation in our society and between specific groups through responses to mainstream media channels and to strengthen hate speech. Fortunately, our country was spared from severe violence. As many recent attacks abroad show, the risk within right-wing extremism is so-called lone actors. Most such attacks are committed by individuals acting on their own initiative and not formally belonging to a particular group. The Belgian security services are already closely monitoring right-wing extremism in the framework of the Plan R. We are also working hard on the successor to the Plan R, in particular the Strategic Note Extremism and Terrorism. As regards the individual succession of persons: insofar as the persons fulfil the legally defined conditions, they may be included as homegrow terrorist fighter (HTF), potentially violent extremist, terrorist convicted and/or hate preacher in the Common Database (GGB). At present there are about 50 right-wing extremist entities in that GGB. All services involved in the fight against terrorism and extremism have access to and feed the GGB. All persons included in the GGB will be followed by the local task forces where individualised measures can be taken, including the withdrawal of the gun licence, a description, the follow-up of social media or an up-and-coming police approach. Furthermore, individuals, as well as phenomena and general evolutions are discussed in the National Working Group on Legal Extremism, in which all security services are represented. Over the past two years, the OCAD has made various phenomenon analyses on right-wing extremism, such as imaging, threat analysis, online anti-Semitism, negationism, gender and right-wing extremism in Eastern Europe and common symbols. Also in the monthly general analysis of the OCAD much attention is paid to the evolutions within right-wing extremism. As far as the police are concerned, in 2018 DJSOC/Terro made a global analysis of the far right. Its latest update took place in 2020 and will be further updated in line with the priorities. The National Security Plan is currently in preparation. It is too early for me to comment on this, but it is clear that these phenomena, which pose a serious threat to public order, will always remain a priority for the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u64	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I think you have outlined very well the threat posed by the extreme right and you also refer to identitarian movements that call for action and also physically arm themselves. I am pleased that you recognise the problem and understand the fight against terrorism in our country. Your answer shows that there is a very real problem and that we should certainly not underestimate the threat of violent extreme right. I would have liked my question to be merged with Mr Depoortere's question because he based himself on my question and almost copy-pasteted it. However, he has turned extreme right-wing extreme left terrorism into terrorism and instead of referring to the State Security Reports, the OCAD and the Committee I, he says he thinks there is a much greater threat of extreme left-wing terrorism. He refers to the General Intelligence and Security Service in the Netherlands, perhaps because he found no sources in Belgium. But when I look at these documents from the Netherlands, there is no mention of extreme left-wing terrorism, but of left-wing extremistism and activism, and it says that the left-wing protest is mainly in civil disobedience and demonstrations in the areas of anti-racism, climate policy and foreign law. It is mainly about demonstrations and actions of civil disobedience. I do not feel a need to defend the extreme left, but I have looked at Mr Depoostere's question and I note that he reacts defensively when I ask a question about extreme right-wing terrorism. I ask myself questions about that. Just now, Mr Depoostere said that demonstrations and civil disobedience must be possible, so in that context I find his reaction a bit strange. In conclusion, the trend towards arms is a real risk of violence and terrorism. That is a threat which we certainly cannot deal with lightly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u65	Mrs Platteau, you are new to Parliament, but it is not really customary to comment on a question before it was asked and answered. However, I would like to reassure you, Mrs Platteau. I asked this question in 2019 to Minister Geens at the time. At that time, I also received a proper answer. I am setting a certain political agenda. Your nervousness also proves that I have a point, Mrs Platteau. Left-wing parties only raise questions about the threat posed by the extreme right-wing, and that is legitimate, but I notice that there is never or never being talked about the threat of extreme left-wings. I therefore put this question because I believe that we must eradicate all forms of extremism. This includes left-wing extremism. So I do think there is a threat from the extreme left, Madam Secretary. It is about terrorism, which is organized internationally. I refer to BLM, although it originated in the United States, but is also finding more and more support here. In our capital, we have been faced with very violent acts, in which police officers were attacked and buildings were set on fire. Do you recognise the threat posed by extreme links in our society? What actions will you take? Will more be devoted to general phenomenon analyses? How will you take into account the international dimension of this extreme left-wing threat? What will be the position of the fight against extreme left in the new National Security Plan which will enter into force on 1 January 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u66	Mr President, the left-wing extremist scene in Belgium is currently small and fragmented. The terrorist threat of left extremism is currently also considered low. Nevertheless, the security and intelligence services remain particularly vigilant. The COOVID-19 health crisis has to some extent acted as a catalyst for both extreme left and right-wing threats. Left-wing extremists particularly denounce the socially unequal impact of health measures, as well as the excessive use of force used by the police to enforce health measures. The Belgian security services are already closely monitoring left-wing extremism in the framework of the Plan R. The Plan R will be transformed into that strategic note Extremism and terrorism where it will also be placed. To the extent that people meet the conditions I mentioned in the answer to the previous question, they can also be included in the GGB in which the names of extremists of any signature, including those of left-wing extremists, can be included. At present there are 17 left-wing extremist entities in full status in the GGB. All services involved in the fight against terrorism or extremism have access to this, and all extremists will be followed by the local task forces. The National Left Extremism Working Group is led by the federal police and all security and intelligence services are represented in it. The partners within these working groups shall share all relevant information and information at meetings held almost monthly. This makes it possible to map extremist behavior in a timely manner. That information is therefore passed on to the local task forces. In the monthly general threat assessment, therefore, links-extremism are mentioned in addition to extreme right-wing. The annual editions of the Europol report show that most of the extremist extreme-left terrorist incidents are concentrated in Italy, Greece and Spain. It happens that individuals and left-wing extremist groups in these countries occasionally have contact with supporters in Belgium. However, we do not have any information on the existence of structural links. It goes without saying that my services are constantly monitoring the development of the international situation of extreme left-wing groups. As far as extreme links are concerned, the DJSOC/Terro also carried out an analysis in 2018, updated in 2020. On the basis of the imaging, it will be considered whether it should be updated. Once again, I can conclude that, as for the extreme right, there will also be a place for the extreme left in the national security plan that is being prepared and on this basis this will be taken into account as a permanent focus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u67	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answer. I would like to add that I consider the right to freedom of expression and the right to demonstration to be very important. I would like to give this to all political opinions, from left to right, of course, with respect for the rule of law. I think that's what everything has been said.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u68	Minister, as part of the fight against extremism and terrorism, an evaluation of the Canal Plan was included in your policy statement. As a result of the attacks in 2016, significant monitoring and community monitoring work had been initiated by the police in a number of municipalities across the country. As a result of these specific tasks, many associations, legal persons and individuals have been carefully monitored. Given the lack of police personnel in local police areas and the specificities of some municipalities in the face of the development of religious extremism, this federal plan has been able to provide essential support in local police stations. Minister, how many police officers were integrating the Canal Plan into its creation? How many police officers are now integrating the Canal Plan into the field? What are the evolving measures that have been taken over the past two years in the context of the Canal Plan missions and the protection of our police officers? What decisions have you had to make at this level since the new government was established last October? What kind of evaluation could it have started as a result of your policy statement? Finally, what services carry out this evaluation? Within what time frame will the results of this exercise be communicated to us for further development or possible reorientation of missions, including in the context of your strategic note updating Plan R?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u69	Mr. President, Mr. Pivin, initially, the Canal Plan provided for 136 inspectors for the federal police and police areas. There are currently 116 inspectors, 75 of whom are seconded to the police areas of the Brussels district. With regard to the Vilvoorde-Machelen police zone, there are 20 inspectors, 16 of whom are currently seconded to the area. The deployment of staff remains a highly evolving issue, as staff members regularly move on to mobility. The priorities defined in 2016 remain relevant. These are the multidisciplinary approach to terrorism and violent radicalization in the Canal territory, and the fight against the phenomena of support. It is also about strengthening the position of information on the phenomena of radicalism and terrorism, on the phenomena of support, illegal economy and home fraud. The Canal Plan was reviewed again this spring. I will analyse the results before deciding on the future of this plan. In any event, previous evaluations have shown that this plan has an absolute added value as there is now better cooperation through a multi-agency approach and better exchange of information. All relevant partners support the continuation of the Canal Plan. A structural budget of €24,250,000 was entered for the integrated police, when the interdepartmental provision for terrorism and radicalism was abolished. The distribution of this amount on basic allowances is based on the unit in which these staff members are employed. The Canal Plan is evaluated by a steering committee comprising the Brussels Federal Police, the West Police Area and the Halle-Vilvoorde Federal Police. As noted above, I have just received the last assessment. I will analyse the results of this study before deciding on the future of the Canal Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u70	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As we have seen some eight days ago, with your help, the updating of all the recommendations of the Attentats Commission, in the framework of the Joint Committee on the Interior and Justice, is proceeding. It is good to have an up-to-date picture of the Canal Plan's workforce. I am very pleased to hear that the means are being kept up to the concerns. Indeed, as we have seen very recently, at three hours from Brussels, in the Paris region, terrorist acts, even if isolated, against representatives of public order were still committed in the neighbourhoods. We must therefore keep a close eye on these issues, and the assistance of the federal police in the framework of the Canal Plan is extremely valuable. I will of course come back to you to question you when you assess the benefits of this plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u71	Minister, I have already been able to ask you about updating the equipment of our police officers to ensure that our law enforcement agencies are sufficiently safe and effective in dealing with crime. Even recently, the state of collective armament was echoed through the Uzi machine gun, which takes time to be replaced, while the Defence has not used this weapon for seven years. It appears that the new Directorate of Security (DAB), which protects our country's strategic sites in particular, is still not equipped with new equipment. If we are aware that this situation calls for planning for the renewal of equipment and that heavy procedures are under way, this does not detract from the rather negative assessment that we have to make in this area, even though work has already been done on individual armaments. What local police and federal police services and divisions are still using Uzi machine guns? Has an evaluation of the effectiveness of this weapon been conducted recently? What procedure has been initiated for their replacement? How long and for what services? What consultation is being conducted at this level with the local police who are still arming their staff with these machine guns? Are other collective weapons subject to urgent replacement? Is it true that the police will still have to use this old weapon until 2023?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u72	Mr. Pivin, there are currently 997 Uzi machine guns used by the federal police. I do not have a comprehensive view of the local police. This is still the collective arming of the federal police. They are mainly located in the Directorate of Security (DAB). Efficacy is more related to ammunition than to the weapon itself. The market for the new collective armament has been in progress since the end of 2019. Deliveries have started since 2020 and staff must first be trained in this new weaponry before weapons can be started. At present, no training has been carried out due to the health crisis. Arms will be distributed to all pillars of the federal police based on the priorities that have been identified with each of them. For the time being, there is no provision for automatic replacement of other 9-mm weapons. The planning of new weapons was staggered until 2025. Uzi machine guns are being gradually replaced.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u73	Thank you for the full answer, Minister. I won't reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u74	Madam Minister, last summer, because of the pandemic, there was no BOB campaign, as we know those other years. This was quite right, because the various measures in the fight against the pandemic had to be taken into account. In the last winter, however, there was another BOB campaign. Due to the health measures, the number of checks remained much more limited than usual, about five times less than during a normal year. You did notice that the number of positive cases was increasing, although the catering industry was closed at that time. On 8 May the terraces will fortunately open again. That's good news for all the operators who've been waiting so long for that redeeming news. However, let's hope that most enthusiastic café-goers are smart enough not to get drunk behind the wheel. After all, our intensive concerns are still overloaded at the moment. We need to make sure that their capacity doesn't suffer. How do police services evaluate the health measures needed to ensure the safe organisation of alcohol controls in recent months? Were these enough? Will these measures also be applied in the coming months? Does the federal police have sufficient manpower to organise more alcohol controls in the coming months than last year? What measures will you take to encourage local police to fully commit to adequate alcohol controls? On the occasion of the opening of the terraces, will you call on the people to urge them not to drive when they have been drinking?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u75	Mrs Buyst, in carrying out these road checks, the COOVID-19 protocol is applied, namely the use of mouth masks and disposable gloves, as well as the respect for the increased hygiene measures and social distance. Local directives will also apply. The number of drivers checked simultaneously shall be limited according to the available space at the control site. The use of sampling is strongly not recommended when devices that are not coronaproof should be used. By the way, the appliances used are systematically disinfected. This will, of course, have an impact on the number of drivers that can be controlled. The police will therefore have to be more selective, with more attention being paid, but not only, to drivers showing signs of alcohol consumption. To date, the measures have gone well, no complaints have yet been received. The measures are therefore being applied. Staff deployment has not changed compared to last year. The local and federal police will organize checks aimed at driving under the influence. The current pandemic reduces the number of police officers per operative. That makes the controls less mobile. Attention will also be paid to driving under the influence of other substances such as drugs. The use of mobile phones while driving and the correct use of safety belts and child seats will also be checked. In addition, the federal police and the federal road police also focus on respecting covid measures such as travel, border controls, training. All this results in a high visibility of the police forces. To support local police, the federal police carry out national actions such as Weekend without alcohol and BOB campaigns. In addition to the national actions, provincial actions are also taking place, which will involve many local police areas. Both local and federal police will therefore continue their efforts to improve road safety. Any driver held for a traffic check or other check may also be systematically subject to an alcohol check. As always, the various authorities will be able to organise the necessary awareness campaigns with the support of various road safety professionals. The PDO campaigns are the most well-known example of this. So they are also being continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u76	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. The measures you mentioned have already given me the answer to a previous question. It is good to hear that these measures are seen as positive. After all, I can imagine that the covid pandemic makes everything much more difficult and complex for our police services. All the support and gratitude for what the police forces have to do during this difficult period. The way they do that deserves all praise. It is also true that after 25 years of BOB campaigns there are still people who get drunk behind the wheel. We must continue to have the courage to commit to these controls. We know an increased chance of getting caught leads to fewer people getting drunk behind the wheel. I hope that next summer we will be able to re-launch the BOB campaigns, as we knew them, because the chance of taking them has to go upstairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u77	Debates of the European Parliament 55017296C by Mrs Chanson was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u78	Mr President, Minister, on Friday evening a man on his way to Vilvoorde was brutally stopped by fake agents. Two guys with a police bracelet pulled him over so the person in question thought they were civilian agents. So it wasn't a routine check. The man was dragged out of his car and beaten until he passed out. The facts are reprehensible in any case, but the fact that the men were pretending to be cops is problematic. Your answer to my written question of 26 February shows that the number of thefts and losses of police equipment remains high. The numerator of the number of recorded losses and thefts of intervention bracelets is 246, from 2015 to the first semester of 2020. Also 85 bulletproof vests and 121 uniforms disappeared during the same period. Those are high numbers and that means that they are used in criminal environments and will and can be abused in particular. In addition to these official police clothing, unofficial and illegal police uniforms are sold on the market. Last week I read in the press that false police shirts were sold on Chinese websites. The website would be defaulted by the federal police. That is really necessary because the uniform of the police is not carnival equipment that can and should be worn anywhere. The citizen must be able to recognise the police by his uniform at all times. According to the Law of 21 December, the wearing or trading of counterfeit uniforms is punishable. How often has this law been applied in the last five years? Clarity is crucial for citizens. Some police forces break uniform rules or fail to comply with color standards. Have you been aware of this problem in certain areas and what do you intend to do about it? Is there a system for tracking lost and stolen parts of the police equipment? How is it checked for local interpretations of the uniform? What are the general rules to be followed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u79	Mr. President, Minister, we were recently informed that the AliExpress online sales site is offering T-shirts with the federal police logo to be purchased, reflecting the illegal use of the logo. The use of the police logo by ill-intentioned persons may pose risks. For example, it should be noted that in May 2020, the police in Wavre reported the actions of people pretending to be police officers, not wearing uniforms, but only dressed in "police-labelled" clothes. They called on citizens, accused them of not complying with the health rules and demanded that they immediately pay a fine of 250 euros. Minister, can we have you back on this? Are initiatives being considered now? Can we be informed of the measures in force to control the illegal use of the logo or the distinctive signs of the Belgian police? Can we be informed of the extent of the illegal sale and use of the Belgian police logo or visuals observed in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, legal protection is provided for all or part of the police uniform. This is defined as part or all of the equipment which meets the characteristics and standards of the integrated police uniform laid down in the regulations. Hence the importance of complying with these statutory characteristics, which must be complied with by all the entities of the integrated police. The protection is linked to a second condition, namely that the garment carries the police logo, a specific police mark or the mention Police, Police or Polizei. The wearing of the police uniform with deceptive or malicious intent and its trafficking is punishable, subject to the exceptions provided for by law. Exact figures on the application of the Law of 21 December 2013 are not known, but infringements have been reported several times. It is also added that the Criminal Code affects certain forms of abuse, such as the presumption of posts and titles. Certain equipment of the police uniforms are numbered and also registered, making them traceable. If members of a police department lose a piece of equipment or become victims of theft of a uniform piece, they must report it by means of a report. These incidents are also registered in the General National Data Bank. Colleague Senesael, the abuse of the police logo is not a new phenomenon. Many initiatives have already been taken to ensure better protection of the police logo. First of all, the "police" logo itself was protected from the outset by its registration in the Register of Trademarks at the Benelux Intellectual Property Office. This means that the Code of Economic Law makes certain forms of abuse punishable. Subsequently, the legislator provided for additional protection of the police uniform in articles 2 to 10 of the Act of 20 December 2013 on various internal provisions. Both the possession, the port and the trade of these pieces of uniforms have thus been clearly regulated. In addition to the possibility of seizure, the Act also provides for specific criminal penalties in this regard. The abuse of the police logo is followed by, among other things, the federal police and allows for an analysis of how its protection can be improved. It is not obvious, however, to take action against all online sales around the world. It is up to each police service in addition to the SPF Economy to react to any abuse and to draw up a report for the criminal prosecution of the parties concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u81	Madam Minister, I am pleased to hear that all entities must comply with the rules. I hope this will also be done on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u82	Minister, thank you for your answers. I have taken note of the various initiatives that have been taken with regard to compliance with the regulations and the increased protection of the logo. I hope that we can put everything in place to avoid such abuses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u83	Minister, betting agencies are part of the socio-economic landscape. Their local location contributes to social networking, whether in the cities or in the countryside. The total closure of betting agencies was imposed from 13 March 2020 to 8 June 2020. However, most businesses were able to reopen their doors on 11 May 2020, subject to specific measures. So it took another month for the betting agencies to open again. A second closing of the betting agencies began on 29 October 2020. Surprisingly, betting agencies have been qualified by the various ministerial decrees of recreational establishments, not by companies. Finally, most businesses were able to open again on 1 December 2020. However, betting agencies have remained closed. The latest measures taken during the Codeco of 24 March 2021 leave no room for a resumption of the activities of these agencies. As a result, Minister, what are the reasons why betting agencies are still unable to open their doors? Why have betting agencies been regarded as recreational establishments in the same way as sports halls? Is an agency reopening protocol currently under consideration within the government, as is the case in other sectors of activity? How do you justify the difference in treatment between bookstores, which also market sports bets and National Lottery products, and betting agencies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u84	Mr President, Mr De Smet, I would like first of all to point out that the figures for contaminations, hospitalizations and ICU have revealed a serious and precarious situation in recent months. They once again reinforce what the Council of State has considered, namely that all measures taken to combat the spread of the virus form an indivisible and inseparable whole aimed at achieving a balance between the protection of public health, on the one hand, and the preservation of the Belgian economy and the general well-being of the population, on the other. The Council of State has also recognized that the Minister of the Interior has a broad discretion to seek a balance between distinct and often conflicting interests in order to reach a decision that serves the general interest. Given the highly volatile and mixed health situation, some measures are still needed to ensure that the situation does not deteriorate rapidly again and that the efforts of the general population and all sectors concerned, including the economic and health sectors, are not nullified. That is why, according to the Council of State, it is not questionable whether the opening of betting agencies will lead to an additional risk of transmission of the virus, even if hygiene measures can be taken to limit this risk. In view of the current health situation and, in particular, given the still significant pressure on hospital infrastructure, the Consultation Committee decided that certain establishments in the recreational sector, such as betting agencies, should remain closed, as is the case in other sectors such as the event sector. Decisions to relax or modify the measures are always based and will continue to be based in the future on different scientific opinions and data, namely, on the one hand, the development of the epidemiological situation and, on the other, the opinion of the experts of GEMS. The measures are decided by the Consultation Committee and confirmed by the Council of Ministers. The Council of State also found that it does not appear unreasonable to group casinos, gaming rooms and betting offices into the same category, nor to consider them as part of an area of wider recreational activities. Betting activities are recreational activities, as shown in particular by the NACE-BEL classification of activities in which the organisation of gambling and gambling belong to the wider arts, entertainment and recreational activities sector. Like other economic actors, a protocol will be drawn up in due course by the competent minister, in consultation with the sector concerned, in order to define the rules to be applied in the context of a future reopening. Finally, the Council of State held that the fact that the measures are reasonably based on the main activity carried out by the various actors of the company justifies that the bookstores should be placed in a different category from those of betting agencies, even though bookstores may sometimes also, as a complementary activity, market gambling products. It should be noted in this respect that bookstores can only enter into bets or promote them by respecting the very strict limitations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u85	Minister, thank you for your reply, as always, very comprehensive. I fear, however, that it will not satisfy the betting sector, which in fact is still faced with unfair competition on certain products with bookstores. I understand the theory of taps. I understand that, legally, the Council of State does not see any inconvenience, but I think that, on the ground, it is still seen and experienced as an injustice. Madam Minister, I hope, like you, that the improvement of the epidemic situation will enable the next Codeco to redress this injustice, if it is finally felt as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u86	Mr President, Madam Minister, a number of foreign police services have recently decided to integrate electric and hybrid vehicles into their fleet. Let us mention here the ambitious green plan of the Sûreté du Québec, the purchase of some 30 electric vehicles by the Italian Guardia di Finanza or the use of electric scooters by the Barcelona police! Minister, can we have your opinion on such initiatives? Can we be informed about the use of electric or hybrid vehicles in Belgian police services? Can measures be envisaged for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u87	Mr Senesael, there is a real will to "green" the car fleet of the Federal Police. The federal police recently acquired four fully electric vehicles and installed a few charging stations in a few complexes. This acquisition is the core of a pilot project for the development of a future electric fleet. In the short term, the objective is to carry out a durability test within different units of the federal police, in other words, to test the use of electric vehicles in different circumstances, on different types of missions. This pilot project is part of a more global vision of replacing diesel vehicles with gasoline, CNG, and electric-gas hybrids. Today, the federal police have 89 hybrid electric gasoline vehicles and 45 CNG vehicles. Given the autonomy of local areas, I do not have a comprehensive overview of these vehicles within the local police. Several areas, such as Bruges, Sint-Niklaas and Montgomery, have already purchased such vehicles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u88	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, thank you for these first points of answer. I think it's going in the right direction. The statistics you are presenting to us are satisfactory. Congratulations also on the initiative of these first electric vehicles and the installed terminals. May this pilot project lead to a more ambitious project of a greener park! Perhaps it would be interesting, Madam Minister, if you could question the different police areas in the country so that we can have a statistical picture of what already exists and what is being considered. In any case, I invite you to do so and thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u89	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 20 April 2021 the European Commission published its figures on road mortality for the year 2020. While road mortality decreased by 22% from 2019 to 2020 and by 40% from 2010 to 2020, Belgium shows a higher number of road deaths per million inhabitants than its neighbours: 44 compared to 31 for the Netherlands, 33 for Germany, 39 for France and 42 for Luxembourg in 2020, the European average being 42. Therefore, we know that the European target of reducing the number of people killed on our roads to a maximum of 420 by 2020 could not be achieved. Minister, can we have your feedback on the figures? In December 2020, you told me a number of initiatives including the deployment of police applications in the field and the continuation of cooperation with active road safety partners at various levels. Can we know what progress has been made? You are aware that our group places the fight against alcohol at the wheel, an important cause of serious accidents, as a priority in the field. What are the initiatives to further strengthen activity in this area? European figures on mortality on motorways place Belgium at the bottom of the European classification. Can we be informed of the specific procedures for combating road mortality on motorways?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u90	Mr Senesael, despite a 24% reduction in the number of deaths since 2010, the reduction in the number of road fatalities remains one of the main objectives. Indeed, the number of deaths on our roads is still high and we are far from achieving the European target of halving the number of road deaths by 2030. In addition, every year the police services report nearly 48,000 minor or serious injuries as a result of road accidents. This also explains why road safety is rightly one of the main concerns of the Belgian population, including me. Road safety is very clearly reflected in my policy statement. The police focus on road traffic offences that cause fatal or serious accidents, in particular speeding, driving under influence, distraction or inadequate use of safety equipment. My objective is to monitor one in three drivers annually on the basis of qualitative and quantitative criteria. Police services will also give maximum priority to the use of new technologies and the treatment of infringements through regional treatment centres to automate roadside checks, findings and treatment. They will also continue to create the national camera shield on the ANPR network. The national ANPR management system will be put into operation and the number of radar sections connected to it will gradually increase. Police capacity will also need to be better directed to problematic places and times through existing analytical techniques and the use of police applications such as FOCUS and Mercurius, and to build on the links between road safety actors and certain crime phenomena. This cooperation involves building partnerships at all levels. It also involves supporting regional road safety policies. Finally, the police will contribute to the revision of the Road Traffic Code with a view to simplifying it and putting more emphasis on road safety and on active road users. The Federal Highway Police will be mobilized to give priority to contributing to the above mentioned objectives. That is why it will be strengthened in the coming months and years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic464x.u91	Madam Minister, thank you for the quality of your answer and, above all, for all the aspects you have mentioned. I'm going to take over four elements that seem primordial to me. First, in your policy statement, you have made security a priority that I share and to which I pay particular attention. Your willingness to go to one in three drivers seems really timely and aims at a goal that should be achieved. Then, the strategies put in place, the initiatives taken and the links between the actors in road safety foster partnerships and I believe that they are essential elements for pursuing this path. Finally, I also do not forget the cooperation with regional policies, which I believe is relevant and necessary. Minister, once again, thank you for the quality of the answer and for the work you are doing on it.
