ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, as you have noted, in accordance with the decision taken yesterday in the Conference of Presidents, the number of colleagues who may be present in this House has increased. Today, the gauge is 67 people, which allows us to continue to respect the social distance. The wearing of the mask remains of course of application for all. Only those members who have the floor are allowed to withdraw it. Thank you for continuing to ensure that the instructions are followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u3	We can move on to the oral questions. Today we start with the new system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u4	Madam President, I have a double comment today. Firstly, I, together with Mr Mertens, have addressed a question on energy to the Prime Minister. That question was forwarded to Mrs Tinne Van der Straeten as the competent minister. The question includes a question to the government. It belongs to the sovereignty of the people's representative, whose interests you should defend, and to his right to question the minister he wishes to question. My question is not specifically about what Mrs Tinne Van der Straeten is doing. My question concerns the government position in the energy debate and what will happen. That question is put to the Prime Minister. Secondly, Madam President, I have the impression that you want me or the independent representatives of the people as close to the exit as possible. I'm not talking about the literal description. I've come from the corner and I'm used to being pushed up. However, I read in the minutes of the group chairmen' meeting that I am speaking as an independent Member next week and I will be given five minutes to give my opinion on the government statement. I have said to Mr Van Peteghem that five minutes is the time to give a stand-up comedy performance. I believe that is what you expect in the debate in the long term. I've been looking into what happened in 2014. At that time, Mr Patrick Dewael was President of the Chamber. Mr Dewael then gave an independent member 15 minutes' speaking time. You cannot accuse Mr Dewael of being an excessive democrat. Mr Dewael, at that time you were a bit of a dictator. Today, as representatives of the people, we have exactly five minutes to reply to the declaration of government. Madam President, in that case, withdraw Parliament and invite the major political parties to make it a show for them. Give 40 minutes to the opposition, 20 minutes to the majority and leave the rest outside. That saves me a ride from Ostend to here, which usually lasts two hours because of the congestion, and then another two hours drive home. Thank you in advance. So, first of all, why should we not ask the Prime Minister our question? Secondly, five minutes' speaking time is ridiculous and an insult to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u5	I'll have the Prime Minister answer your first question. Your second question concerns the general discussion. There will then be thematic debates and you will have as much time as you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u6	There is always discussion as to whether a question is general or specific. When there is a social debate that concerns everyone, not just the government but the whole population, not only the Energy Minister should speak. There are also fiscal and social aspects and aspects of consumer protection to the important energy dossier, and thus different government policy areas. The government could send a strong signal to the Prime Minister to respond to the concerns in this regard. I therefore support Mr Dedecker's plea that the government should put the debate at the centre of this debate and that the Prime Minister should answer the complex questions. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, you are here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u7	There is another problem. Article 124 of the Rules of Procedure provides for the possibility of adding questions on the same subject. Last Thursday I submitted a question on the same subject. Both gentlemen would like to ask questions about the rise in energy prices. The title of my question was: the increase in energy prices. So I don't understand why that question wasn't added. I can still understand that I would rather not be allowed to speak in the debate, but that is a mockery of our Rules of Procedure. So I ask you very clearly why the Rules of Procedure have not been complied with.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u8	Madam President, the question of which minister answers questions to the government is not new, it comes back every few weeks. I do not need to repeat that it is up to the government to decide which minister is the most appropriate to reply. We can only judge on the basis of the title given up. That said 'energy price' and that is why it seems logical to me that the Minister responsible for energy should reply. Mrs Van der Straeten has the competence to answer questions about the energy price.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u9	Prime Minister, I do not doubt Mrs van der Straeten's competence for a moment, you do not have to worry about that. The questions we ask are always asked in general. If you like, we can add half an epistle to it, but we get two minutes to express ourselves and must therefore be very concise. As far as the transfer of responsibility is concerned, my question is indeed about energy prices and what has been done with them from your government and your party, since the first purple-green government in 1999. I think Mrs Tinne Van der Straeten was still in the red coals back then, or probably in the green coals. Today we are faced with the same problem, and that is what my question was about, Prime Minister. The only one who can answer that question is you. Moreover, Mr Mertens - and I agree with Mr Mertens - the problem has several aspects, and so there are several ministers responsible, because it is also about consumer affairs and VAT, which Mr Van Peteghem is involved in. You are responsible as a government leader and it is up to you to take responsibility and not to pass them on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u10	Prime Minister, you said in your reply that since the questions on the price of energy are being asked, the debate on this matter is being passed on to Minister Van der Straeten. But the 21% VAT is just not in the price. I hope you know that, that's just one of the problems. VAT is on top of the price. The whole VAT debate and also the VAT deficit therefore transcends the mere pricing, which falls within the competence of the Minister. That is our argument for opening the debate and giving the signal that the government is really taking the debate seriously today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u11	Mr Wollants, your question is specifically about talks about electricity that would have been held with fellow ministers in our neighbouring countries or in Europe. There have been dozens of questions asked in committee about energy prices, but here we are talking about the general issue of energy prices. We cannot accept all the questions about the rise in energy prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u12	The Prime Minister has just stressed that questions are about rising energy prices. I put a question about rising energy prices, but you tell me that my question about rising energy prices is a different matter than the questions about rising energy prices from Mr Dedecker and Mr Mertens. Will you now divide all questions into sub-topics so that if one does not know what is to be asked, they cannot be merged? The Rules of Procedure do not provide for this at all. You apply the Rules of Procedure as you see fit. That is a very bad thing, because in future you will be able to say that this question is very specific and you do not want it in the debate at any time. That does not seem to me to be a fair approach, and I therefore request that my question be added, as the Rules of Procedure state.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u13	The Rules of Procedure provide that questions on the same subject may be added. Your question is not about the exact same subject. Its title is: "Rol Gazprom and market forces'.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u14	Please read out the first three words of the title of my question, Madam President: 'Rigorous energy prices'.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u15	Yes, but the last words of the title are "Rol Gazprom and market forces." That's not exactly the same subject. [[Tumult]] Colleagues, today we start with a new system. Respect for speaking time is very important. The microphone will be automatically switched off as soon as speaking time is over. In order to help you keep to speaking time, time will turn red at the end. When the time display turns red, the speaker remains 20 seconds speaking time. May I urge you to respect the speaking time. Ladies and gentlemen, I insist on strict respect for speaking time. At 2 minutes, the microphone will shut down automatically. To help you, the time display color will become red when you have 20 seconds left. This also applies to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u16	Prime Minister, the NAVAP scheme, whereby policemen can be placed on non-active duty prior to retirement at their request, is not a piece of paper. It is an agreement that was established by royal decree on 25 November 2015. The Royal Decree makes it very clear that the scheme will continue to exist until a retirement scheme is in place for all early retirements in the public sector. This week, it was announced that the NAVAP scheme will be on the table of the Interkabinets Working Group. One would then be tempted to think that it is about funding, but nothing is less true. It soon became clear that the minister should focus on discouraging non-activity. It was not necessary to look at the NAVAP scheme; it was necessary to look for custom functions. You will understand that if such matters come out toughly or not, this is a thorn in the eye of the many policemen in our country and certainly of the police unions. They do not want the NAVAP scheme to be amended, but they want clarity. I can go along with them and I therefore ask you today to clarify what has come out this week. Clarify and provide transparency on what the NAVAP scheme will look like in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u17	Mr Depoostere, you are well aware that the coalition agreement makes it very clear that there is a great deal of investment in security, and that we are constantly in dialogue with our security services through the syndicated representatives. Mrs. Verlinden will take care of that. In fact, I am replying in her place. She is not here today because she had to go to the European summit in Luxembourg. I saw that there were similar questions in the committee responsible yesterday. They have not been dealt with in the end, but I assume that there will still be an opportunity to question Mrs Verlinden directly on these issues. You will understand that Parliament is not the place to have the public debate on what the NAVAP regulation means. The analysis of how that scheme is applied is carried out within the government. I think that's the logic itself. We will not anticipate the decisions that may be taken there. I would like to say that Mrs Verlinden is in dialogue with those involved and that she will definitely continue to engage in dialogue. The decisions will not just be taken unilaterally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u18	Prime Minister, with all due respect, this was an answer that there is none. Parliament is, of course, the perfect place to hold a public debate. What else is a Parliament for? Prime Minister, I will warn you, along with the police unions. Political support for our police must become and remain a top priority. What are we supposed to think about the violence against police? What are we supposed to think about perpetrators of a gang rape, who have to write a few sentences as punishment for why they've misguided something? What should we think about young people who are allowed to film our policemen in order to be able to complain to them more quickly? As a icing on the cake, there is now the NAVAP scheme that may go on the kick and there are wage negotiations that cannot be resolved. Wages have been frozen for 20 years. Prime Minister, I hope (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u19	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of October 6, 2021, I propose that you appoint the President of the House's final Bureau during the sitting on Tuesday, October 12, 2020. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 October 2021, I propose that the President of the Permanent Bureau of the Chamber be appointed at the plenary session on Tuesday 12 October 2021. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: - Candidates may be nominated until today 3 p.m. (art. 157, No. 5, Rgt). - Also today, no later than 4:00 p.m., I will communicate to you the candidate or candidates to be nominated. Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - The candidates can be nominated until 3 p.m. (Art. 157, No. 5, Rgt). Also today, at 4 p.m. at the latest, I will inform you of the candidate or candidates to be nominated. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u20	Prime Minister, a state security report shows that the Sultan Ahmet Mosque in Heusden-Zolder plays an important role in spreading Muslim extremistism. A spicy detail is that at the head of this mosque is none other than Mehmet Stün, the chairman of the Muslim Executive. It's not the first time the Muslim execution has been compromised. At the end of last year, the Vice-President of the Executive had to resign because of suspicion of espionage and too close ties with Morocco. Previously, they also managed to appoint an imam for the Great Mosque in Brussels who relied on radical Salafism and only spoke Arabic. In addition, links were demonstrated between the Muslim executive and Salafist regimes in Saudi Arabia and Qatar. The latest revelations by the Security of the State not only prove the bankruptcy of the Flemish government's subsidy approach, but also that the Muslim executive who should represent the subsidised moderate Islam is actually doing the opposite and the Islam fundamentalism in this country just sparks up. Minister of Justice Van Quickenborne excels today because of his absence, but he announced this morning that a thorough and urgent screening of the Muslim executive is on the agenda. Until further notice, however, that organisation is still the official interlocutor of the federal government. Mr Prime Minister, is it not time to put an end to this? What will the government do about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u21	Madam President, Prime Minister, two weeks ago, on behalf of my group, I was allowed to put an urgent question on the operational and financial scrutiny of the Muslim executive and its dubious non-profit organisations. Your Minister, Mr Van Quickenborne, did not mention this in the press on 29 September. He said that an audit of the annual accounts would be sufficient until malpractices were identified. I received the financial statements from his cabinet yesterday from the Muslim Executive of 2019. (Mr Metsu shows a document). It is a balance sheet, not annual accounts, because there is no explanation at all. We want to know what happened to the EUR 150 000 to that accountant, the purchased car that turns out to be missing, EUR 40,000 in media material, and no one knows where it is. We think that's just the tip of the iceberg. Under pressure from the Pano reportage, the minister asked for an audit of the State's security in connection with foreign interference. He then suddenly dares to say on Radio 1 this morning: "What we saw on Pano is no surprise. We knew that a long time ago." I wonder, then, why EUR 647 000 of subsidies have recently been paid to this fund, and I quote your Minister Van Quickenborne again, 'untransparent, unprofessional non-profit-making association'. To outline the order of magnitude, the non-profit organisation that is rightly questioned now, receives more than twice as much subsidies as the 1,500 victims of terror combined. Prime Minister, how long has your government been aware of these abuses and the dubious figures of the non-profit organisation? Will you only ask the Security of the State for an audit, or will you release objective financial watchdogs on it? As far as the N-VA is concerned, please suspend this funding immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u22	Prime Minister, I think that Parliament's intentions were made very clear after the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on the attacks. In connection with radicalism and the Muslim executive in particular, the intention was very clear to cancel the concession with the Saudis and to effectively ensure that the Muslim executive would be transferred to a representative sample of the broad Muslim community. The Muslim community is entitled to that, too. For those who would like to go back to what was said in the committee on behalf of the Saudi community at that time: it was shocking and confronting, it was completely contrary to the universal values embodied in our Constitution. I'm just saying, Prime Minister, that it's a tough aunt, a hard nut to crack. I note that the concession with the Saudis was indeed cancelled, but that funding would now be refinanced from other communities and interference in the content of religion. There is a kind of religion being proclaimed which, I repeat, runs counter to our Constitution, for example as regards the separation between Church and State and equality between men and women. There is often a tendency to take the kind of principles that should not be violated for me. The Minister of Justice has rightly requested a new audit of State Security and I would ask you to maintain the suspension of the application for recognition until there is clarity about the outcome of the audit. After all, it has been the unanimous will of this Parliament to say: 'trop is too much, enough is enough'. We must ensure that the Muslim executive does indeed become the property of the broad Muslim community. She deserves that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u23	Mrs Ponthier, you are well aware that Minister Van Quickenborne is prevented from attending a European Council in Luxembourg. I assume that it is normal for a Minister of Justice to be present when he discusses with his colleagues at European level. If Minister Van Quickenborne has said that it is no surprise, it is because he has been working very intensively on this dossier for a year, a dossier which is very complex and where progress has unfortunately been insufficient so far. Minister Van Quickenborne said that Muslim executive professionalism and representativeness must be sufficiently transparent. That is absolutely not the case today. As mentioned above, the Minister follows this very closely. The recognition procedure for the Grand Mosque in Brussels was suspended and it was also demanded that persons mentioned in intelligence reports should leave. That has happened in the meantime. The Minister of Justice has called on all Muslims to engage in renewal and a Muslim executive that is transparent and representative, as is the case today with all the representations of the religious communities in our country. The dysfunctions are clear. The analysis of the KUL says that the imam training, in which the KUL is involved, has so far been a failure. The government has therefore decided not to pay the EUR 250 000 planned for this purpose. On the basis of the problems raised by the Muslim Executive, the Minister of Justice failed twice, on 8 July and on 4 October, the Muslim Executive and took action on the basis of the dysfunctions he had seen at those times. Following that second letter of formal notice, he asked the intelligence services to examine the Muslim executive further and to look for evidence of threat, extremism, espionage and interference. Based on what you're saying, I think a financial audit would also be appropriate. Let it be clear that the government in this file isn't about a night's ice cream. In these cases, we must, of course, ensure that freedom of religion is respected, that the separation between Church and State, which is important in our country, is respected. If a Muslim executive works with public money, it is logical that there should be no doubt as to how these public funds are used. People in our country deserve better than that kind of mess and bullshit, no matter who it is. Such matters can never be accepted, in any community of faith or activity. The government deplores the fact that the Muslim executive is getting into the news in this way. We regret that the Minister of Justice has had to fail the Muslim executive twice. This kind of thing is not acceptable. The message to the Muslim executive is very clear. Make sure that it is properly organised this time, make sure that people are appointed who are professional and representative of the Muslim community in Belgium and who can provide the necessary transparency. This respect for the independence of religion is an important element in Belgium. There is a consensus across all parties on the fact that there is a certain level of funding, but this must be possible in a transparent way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u24	Prime Minister, a financial audit and a thorough review are all good, but I fear that the umpteenth announcement is nothing more than windowdressing. In reality, little or nothing changes, even after the previous announcements on the subject. Therefore, your answer does not reassure anyone here, except perhaps the Muslim extremists in Belgium. In addition to these announcements, your answer shows that you will still not be sufficiently forceful against their mouthpiece. A chunky pilot who gets out of the bend every now and then gets no insurance in this country and loses his driver's license. The Muslim executive, on the other hand, is allowed to go on a crazy run without her driving licence being revoked. The governments in this country even give them a Porsche instead of a Fiat. (the microphone is switched off)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u25	Madam President, Prime Minister, it is clear that this is the government's umpteenth panic response to an initiative by the opposition or by Pano. The people are quite right to ask where the vigilance is and what the government is doing today. Fortunately, your President of Open Vld himself tweetingly answered that question. Another member of your party stated that she no longer follows politics, to which the President of Open Vld replicates the words: "Was there anything to follow? Just look at The Smartest Man." You will be reduced by your own party to a guided sculpture government: everything for appearances. The appointment within the Vivaldimiester majority turns out to be:"Let's agree to disagree."just at a time when we need to act very forcefully and just when we read in the newspaper yesterday that six rapists should write in an essay that they will not do it anymore. [[Mike's offline.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u26	Mr Metsu, your microphone will be switched off. Your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u27	Madam President, I will try to stay on the subject. Perhaps that will allow me to respect the speaking time. Mr Prime Minister, with regard to the Great Mosque, we must all note by a large majority and unanimity in Parliament that it is very difficult to make progress in this area. At the time, we released and spent resources on the KUL, in order to set up some kind of imam training. That hasn't been a success either. So we have to keep knocking on the same nail. I note from your reply that the resources available are suspended for the time being pending the outcome of the audit. If additional studies are required, perform them. However, it is impossible for a radical extreme belief to continue to nest here, funded by foreign money, and to turn against our universal values. It can't be for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u28	Madam President, Prime Minister, the conspiracy theories and fake news in the Conings dossier were co-organised from Russia. The Chief of Defence's Chief of Staff, Admiral Hofman, was very clear about that this week. It is a good thing that this is being appointed, and we must be very aware that this is not an isolated fact. Russian propaganda uses disinformation as a real weapon. In 2019 alone, there were 998, almost 1000, proving Russian disinformation campaigns against the European Union and its Member States. Our democratic rule of law is undermined by well-wrapped lies and cloaked nonsense. Whoever does this knows very well that this poison is spreading very quickly in the minds of the citizens. As part of a national response, the development of a cyber component in Defense is now being speeded up. That is the right next step and it must be both offensive and defensive. But the answer, Prime Minister, must also be European. Yesterday you came together with your European colleagues and you said that sometimes we should go for 'Europe First'. This also means that Europe must develop the necessary capacities to be more resilient. That was also the lesson after the covid pandemic, which was the lesson after Afghanistan, but also after the cyber attacks on this Parliament, on our institutions and on our citizens. And now it's the lesson again in the Conings file. Prime Minister, it is high time we took both national and European action. What was decided yesterday at the informal summit on the position of the EU in the world? What concrete steps will be taken at European level? And can the process at Belgian level be speeded up towards a powerful cyber capacity in Defense so that our country becomes more resilient?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u29	Madam President, Mr Pillen, Europe's position in the world was discussed at the European summit yesterday and the day before yesterday. There was a good reason for this, because over the last few months Europeans have been pushed around the corner a number of times. So it became clear that without partnerships in the world, people will not get far. However, we Europeans also need to be much clearer in our partnerships about what we want. I am convinced that, in today's world, the United States remains clearly our main partner. We may differ in certain areas, but we share the values we stand for, and there is no doubt about that. This is clearly much less the case with other partners. Of course, it happens from time to time that the United States has different interests. It must then be very clear that we are putting our interests, our European interests first, and that we must have the opportunity to defend them autonomously. It is clear that today is not enough. Europe is the largest trading bloc in the world, the largest investor in so many areas, but we are far too weak in relation to the influence that we could actually have. The issue of cyber was also very clearly discussed at the NATO summit. Secretary of Defense Dedonder was very clear there. The plans to develop a real cyber component have already been put into action. This is, of course, a plan which cannot be put into practice in a few months' time, but which prepares the budgets to do so. Meanwhile ADIV is developing very strongly in the domain of cyber. We also see that innovation and research projects are being strengthened, together with the private sector, in order to develop this capacity. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u30	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the answer. Europe must be able to respond autonomously, assertively and directly to such attacks on our values and interference in our democracy, both defensively and offensively. It is only in this way that we can make our voices heard on the international stage and play a significant role. However, it goes beyond the geopolitical aspect of this story. This is also about our values, about the protection of our democracy and our rule of law. National and European solutions are needed, Prime Minister. I have every confidence in it. Your reply also makes it very clear that this will remain very high on the national and European agendas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u31	Mr Minister, on the terraces and in the shops Corona seems far away and that is positive. At the office, however, it is different, because there are still fewer people in the workplace. Telework is stimulated and sometimes even mandatory. Employees have shown that they are as productive at home as they are at the office. That's good, because employees can gain more control over their lives. As I said in March, telework can be liberating. Employers should, however, give something in return. That's the problem today. We see that only six out of 100 employees receive telework compensation. This morning I was in the action of AG Insurance. The trade unions had a clear appeal, namely that teleworking does not mean extra mental pressure. Telework must now be organized in a decent way and our people must not be allowed to pay the bill. That bill is a problem, because telework means heating the house more in winter and we know what that will mean this winter. Telework also means defining the working hours themselves, but we all know how difficult that can be. Telework also means that people set up their own desks at home, but we all know that this is not evident in every home. Businesses enjoy the benefits, but employees also want to see some of these benefits. My resolution provides for a telework allowance and the right to inaccessibility. She also pays attention to mental well-being and the mental pressure that telework can bring. Mr. Minister, can you guarantee me that you will increase the pressure (...) [[microphone disabled]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u32	Madam President, I have also read that only 5.6 percent of workers receive telework. Securex's study shows that the figure is still very low, but still rising significantly. In 2020 the figure was only 1.65 %. As you know, the framework for teleworking is primarily a matter for the social partners. This is mainly regulated by collective agreement 85, Chapter 8 of which regulates the issue of equipment for workers and the remuneration of costs by employers. During the corona crisis, collective agreement 149 also provided for a cost measure. It is clear that the corona crisis and the mandatory teleworking have changed our habits. I am convinced that a review of the existing framework for teleworking is necessary. That is why I asked the social partners to make this a priority. I hope that an agreement will be reached soon. You also know that sectoral negotiations are currently under way. This is, of course, a good opportunity for the social partners to settle the issue of telework allowances. I have no doubt that many agreements will be concluded both within the sectors and within the companies. Personally, I consider the reimbursement of the costs incurred by the worker in teleworking to be a very important point for the social partners, particularly in view of the increase in energy costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u33	Minister, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but the pressure has been on employees for a year and a half. In the beginning, it was improvising, that everyone understood. Now they remain committed, but they still pay the bill. The employers reap the benefits but give nothing in return. That cannot be a sustainable solution. I hope, together with you, that the social partners will take better care of telework than is the case at present. Now it's still improvisation. I hope that a solution will finally be found, especially in view of the rising energy bill for the coming winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u35	Madam President, Minister, we are working very hard today, especially in Flanders. Anyone who wants to work is actually working today, but those who carry our society with their efforts are far too few. Whether it's in care, catering, retail or transport, there are too few hands everywhere, with all the consequences of that, because one has to withdraw employees and opportunities to create and build more prosperity are missed. The people who are working today, despite our rigid labour market legislation, are harder at work than ever, with more flexibility than ever. At the same time, there are hundreds of thousands of people in our country who can, but do not want to, work. Why should they also work, with a government that has already approved three increases in unemployment benefit over the past year, reducing the difference between working and not working? In addition, the government is increasingly burdening the working, enterprising and saving Flemings with new taxes. Looking for measures that increase the effectiveness rate in the country to 80% is with this government as a search for a needle in a haystack. Worse still, when something is leaking from the budget negotiations that are now going on at federal level, these are just unsavoury PS ideas that make work less and less attractive, unsavoury PS ideas that will eventually destroy prosperity and well-being. What will you do for the people who are working double shifts today because they do not find colleagues and for the entrepreneurs who have to postpone investments today because they do not find staff? What will you do to finally help them? What will you do to finally make work in this country more attractive again, when you have done the opposite over the past year?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u36	Madam President, Mr Anseuw, as you know, the coalition agreement contains many measures relating to the labour market. As Minister of Work, I am convinced that reforms are needed. The corona crisis shows that the way of working has changed. Employees have new aspirations and employers want change. It's an evolution that's been deployed before, but Corona has accelerated these things. As I said earlier, the problem of the bottleneck professions is increasing. There is therefore a need for vigorous action. I have therefore put forward more than 30 proposals to the government. We are working on an ambitious and balanced plan. As you know, the discussions are still ongoing. Many of these measures are linked to the problem of bottlenecks in the professions. You know the number. There are currently more than 140,000 open vacancies. Some sectors also face a serious shortage of labour. Together with the ministers of the regions, I would like to do everything in my power to encourage workers to receive training for a bottleneck profession and to encourage them to adapt their careers to it. We must also lead young people to these jobs and tackle the causes of the shortages. I am convinced that deficits have different causes. It would be wrong to think that the deficits are only the fault of the workers. Some jobs are physically or mentally very heavy. For other jobs, wages are too low. All these issues must be tackled without taboos. I'm working on this with my federal and regional colleagues. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u37	Mr. Secretary, your microphone will be switched off. Watch your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u38	Minister, the N-VA is on the side of the people who want to work, who are running double shifts today because they do not find colleagues, the people who want to undertake to create new jobs and prosperity in this country. Whose side are you on? Whose side is the Croo government on? I asked what you'd do. You have not mentioned any concrete measures. Then it is very clear that this government is the cricket's government, not the ant's. This government is not on the side of the people who want to work and undertake in this country. This government does not side with the people who have to run double shifts because they do not find colleagues. This government does not reform the labour market where this is urgently needed. This government is just gonna let people down.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u39	Pour vivre heureux, vivons cachés. Let us live happily hidden lives. That is a motto that has a lot of wealthy and noble families in this country. Since the publication of the Pandora Papers, we know what that means in concrete terms for some of them, i.e. lugging money away from tax havens through structures that must be hidden. Doing their fair share is far too much for some people. Minister, you were right to respond immediately to the statement that offshore structures to evade taxes are fraud. You said that there is no discussion about this, and more to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, these constructions are not only illegal, they are also immoral. Those who park their money in tax havens know very well what they are doing, there must be no doubt about that. Don't underestimate how this happens to the people who pay their contributions neatly and see over and over again that others try to escape from it. We've seen the Swiss Leaks, the Lux Leaks, the Panama Papers, you name it. You have also seen the reactions evolve, from angry to frustrated to despondent. Courageless, because some people doubt that we really want to deal with this. Colleagues, our credibility is at stake. Prime Minister, I know that good measures have been taken. We're not powerless. As a result of the Pandora Papers, we must take further steps towards fair taxation, and you will have the full support of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. What initiatives can we expect from you to step up the fight against international tax fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u40	Madam President, Minister, we know how much the budget that you are finalising at the government level will have to meet urgent needs: to improve the health professions, to support sectors that have been severely affected by this crisis, to rebuild areas that have been affected by the floods or to support households that are now facing the explosion in energy prices. It is therefore in this context that the press has revealed the Pandora Papers, a new financial scandal which makes it possible to stress, once again, that tax evasion in our country represents a loss of profits for the state of almost 30 billion euros, almost the equivalent of our public debt. This is a scandal which, for my Defi party, deserved the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Why? Certainly not to redo the work that has already been done by previous committees of inquiry but to analyse the Belgian part of the Pandora Papers and thus to check whether what is or will be set up in the future is really enough today to fight effectively against major tax fraud. Yesterday, in the Finance Committee, this proposal was rejected by the Vivaldi parties, but also by the N-VA, which is increasingly fuelling the public's feeling that politics is talking, but it is not acting, or even protecting itself, because we know that this scandal concerns a whole series of political figures. Minister, will the government's new budget provide for a significant increase in the resources allocated to justice and the police to effectively combat large-scale tax evasion? Will you step up their training and set up a financial prosecutor's office, as is the case in France? What are you doing in the development of your big plan against tax evasion? Will this plan contain measures to combat tax evasion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u41	Minister, the Pandora Papers Leaks are the scandal of too many! After all the leaks and paper we've already known, it's the drop that makes the vase overflow. This demonstrates the failure of the fight against tax havens, the fine speeches of the OECD, those of the European Union and our government. Wind! Wind, Minister! I will not ask you to make any major statements in this House. Through two specific questions, I will ask you to provide specific answers. My first question concerns the Belgian list of tax havens. Of the seven that are central to the Pandora Papers, there are two that are on the Belgian list and five that are not: Belize, Panama, Seychelles, Hong Kong and Cyprus. Do you intend to add these five countries to the Belgian list of tax havens, not in two years or even in five years, but immediately through a royal decree, which you can take immediately? My second question concerns the European list of tax havens. On Monday, the Pandora Papers are released in the world press. On Tuesday, you met with your European colleagues, Finance Ministers. What do you decide? Adding new countries to the list of tax havens? No! To take out three of them! Three of which are directly involved: the Seychelles that I have just asked you to add to the Belgian list. Minister, this is incomprehensible and explanations are expected. So what was your attitude at this European Council of Finance Ministers? What position did you support? Did you agree with the other ministers to remove these tax havens from the European list, including one where zero taxes are paid (the island of Anguilla) and the Seychelles directly involved in the Pandora Papers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u42	Madam President, I'm sick. Like each and every citizen who pays their taxes in Belgium, I am outraged; indignant but decided! Because today is the time for action! Eleven thousand billion dollars are hidden in tax havens; 1,217 Belgians and residents are involved; Belgium is involved. Tax havens, empty shells, trusts, a legal labyrinth that they built with three, five front companies, revelations about false writing... Incivians are always very creative when it comes to hiding their money in the eyes of the tax authorities in tax havens. Let me not be told that these buildings are legal! Several committees in this Parliament have already dealt with tax fraud: 108 recommendations in 2009, 132 recommendations in 2017 by the Panama Papers Special Commission. But many have not been implemented by previous governments. We have our to-do list! Today is the time for action! Let us implement these recommendations. Let's list the ones that haven't been implemented. That is what I proposed yesterday in committee! Vivaldi is the majority that pushes forward the fight against tax fraud. Together with the Ecolo-Groen group, we have always been very active in this issue. Today, we are part of this majority and we always say the same thing: on the fraud side, we have to prosecute and punish better and on the escape side, we have to make illegal what is now immoral. In the immediate future, we need means, Minister. There is a need to strengthen prosecutors, the Special Tax Inspectorate and the Federal Judicial Police. Will you incorporate these elements into your anti-fraud action plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u43	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is a new leak which has a lot of emotion in the public and of course a lot of gestures in Parliament, sometimes with theatricalizations which mean strong moments, especially for Ecolo, but I am also thinking of the PTB colleagues and of all the overplay which still needs to be nuanced. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the previous leaks! How many people have been cited and yet not qualified as fraudsters? How much did the previous leaks bring back? Only one leaks was really a significant recipe for the state budget, it's the Swiss Leaks. The rest is a lot of gesticulation. Yet we have worked. God knows if the Michel government has taken a solid foundation today that makes it possible to move forward on tax evasion, which must obviously be condemned because it is reprehensible, but escape is not necessarily tax evasion. Mr Van Hees, address these tens of thousands of Belgians who have an account abroad to pay for their secondary residences (water, gas, electricity). Are they fraudsters? Not at all, of course! When they have reported their accounts, when they are in good standing with the BNB, of course not! Don't throw the baby away with the bath water, please! Remember who set up the Cayman tax! You want to raise the rate, you want to see it again? We are opposed to nothing. MR has no taboo on the subject. We have to fight fraud, but not everyone is necessarily a fraudster when he has an account abroad. Beyond that, there is the Cayman tax, there is the exchange of information, there is the extension of the deadlines that allowed the tax to go beyond what was allowed before in law enforcement. Minister, do you intend to speed up the implementation of the recommendations...?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u44	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Panama Papers, Offshore Leaks, Lux Leaks, Swiss Leaks, Dubai Papers, and now Pandora Papers, when will this end? That's everyone's question. Thanks to the colossal work and the revelations of the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), 11.9 million documents and, in Belgium, 1,217 Belgians identified as being linked to an offshore company. It's much more than with the Panama Papers. The indignation is great, the anger is immense, faced with this repetition of scandals. But if he is a feeling at the height of our indignation, it is our determination. We are faced with people who benefit from our public services, our infrastructure, our health care, the product of our education, the good training of our workers, and who prefer, by selfishness, to finance intermediaries to hide fortunes abroad and escape from this tax which allows us collectively to ensure a fair redistribution and the efficiency of our solidarity mechanisms, whose necessity is no longer to be demonstrated. Minister, reckless savings have been committed by the previous government and have jeopardized the work of departments such as Justice. The fight against fraud is at the heart of this government's agenda and there is now a need to achieve results in this area. It is necessary to respond to calls for the help of the actors on the ground, both those of the justice system, those of the police and those of the ISI. There is a need for human and technical resources, particularly in the public prosecutor's offices. The few tax intermediaries that allow this tax evasion must be prosecuted and punished. The recommendations of previous special commissions of inquiry must be implemented. There is a need for full tax transparency. Minister, as you said, tax evasion through offshore constructions is undoubtedly fraud. I can only agree with you. But then, how can this declaration be implemented? When will we discuss it and strengthen your plan of struggle? When are we going to strengthen the investigation teams that combine prosecutors, police and ISI?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u45	Mr. Secretary, here we are again. ! I remember standing here a few months ago yelling: we want our money back! It's barely a few months later, and here we are again. Once again, a number of journalists have received documents about dubious law firms located in dubious locations and setting up dubious business structures for their customers, customers who have never been to those dubious locations. Among those customers there are more than 1,200 countrymen. What are these people doing? They channel their money and their shares to those dubious companies there, because they don't have to pay taxes there, and here they do. This is again a good example of people who, although blessed with very strong shoulders, refuse to contribute to the organisation of our society. What are we supposed to do about that? Should we organise hearings? Should we set up committees to listen to anyone who knows anything about this? We have already done so, Minister, and we have done so on several occasions. There is a large report, from 2017, with many recommendations in response to the Panama Papers. There is another major report, from 2009, with many recommendations in response to the major fraud cases at that time. And what do we notice after all these years? Many of these recommendations have still not been implemented, after all these years. My question is therefore simple, Minister. What will you do to implement the existing recommendations as soon as possible, so that I do not have to stand here again in six months' time as a result of another paperleaks scandal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u46	There were seven questions. I suggest you limit your answer to seven minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u47	We can continue to say that offshore structures and tax havens can have a legal basis and can be used for purely economic reasons, but the facts that an international group of investigative journalists has brought to light today are once again pressing us with the facts. Tax evasion through offshore structures and aggressive cross-border tax planning remains a serious problem even after the Panama Papers. We cannot accept this, and we must do so. Am I surprised as Minister of Finance? I'm afraid not. My administration fights such fraud on a daily basis. Just because we are aware that such structures are still being used, we are committed to transparency and control. Our country has not been idle since the revelations in the Panama Papers. I list five elements, non-limitative. Firstly, the Cayman tax provides for a declaration of legal constructions and a transparent assessment of income in the personal income tax. At present, almost 3,000 files follow that regulation. Secondly, with the special committee on Panama Papers, this Parliament has also done important work and made recommendations. My administration has ensured the priority treatment and maximum follow-up with regard to the tax part. Thirdly, this year we also launched our first action plan against fraud, in which we enable consultation and cooperation between the tax authorities, the police and the public prosecutor. The resources to be deployed should also be able to be expanded in this context. The action plan also includes a project on tax havens. A working group was set up to focus specifically on tax havens. It will develop measures in the short term. It is logical that all the revelations that are now being made under the Pandora Papers will be included. By the way, in the field, my administration has examined the Panama Papers' files within its research capabilities. She examined 269 files with an increase in the taxable base of 26 million euros. One of the challenges is, of course, the so-called old-age capital, which is income outside the seven-year research period of the administration, for which, of course, the parquet still has research powers. It is therefore important that we do not underestimate the legal follow-up and prosecution. Fourthly, we have recently strengthened the operation of the UBO register, in which beneficial owners of legal entities, including trusts, must be declared. As part of the Pandora Papers revelations, I will have an analysis done to see if this register can be optimized. Fifth, companies making payments in tax havens must report them to my administration. Since January this year, the list of countries for which this declaration is to be made has been extended through the European list of non-cooperative countries in order to have as wide a scope as possible. That list of countries needs to be adjusted. My administration will therefore update the list of the OECD Global Forum, based, of course, on the parameters laid down by law. The letter on this subject will be published in the near future. This will mean, for example, that payments to Seychelles will still have to be declared. I would like to point out that the decision of the European Finance Ministers concerns the reference of three countries on the blacklist of non-cooperative countries, those who do not wish to cooperate, to the grey list, because those three countries decided to take a number of steps to cooperate. They promise to get better, and that's why they're on the gray list. That is an important nuance in what has already been said today. Colleagues, despite that non-limitative list I have listed, our work is far from finished. Fraud undermines the support for the tax system and creates unfair competition. It's right to make a lot of people angry and indignant. That is why the fight against social and fiscal fraud is so important for the government. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Ministerial Committee on the Fight against Fraud and at international level to make this fight effective and to put an end to unfair competition. The transparent exchange of information and data is essential in this respect, as the Pandora Papers show once again black on white. That is why I support the international fight against countries that do not comply with the international standard for data exchange. I also welcome the fact that the European Commission has confirmed that it will present a new proposal by the end of the year to combat the profits made behind front companies or ghost companies. Finally, I fully support the request of the Finance Committee to discuss the results of the Panama Committee with the Minister of Justice and to put them in parallel with any new information and teaching resulting from the Pandora Papers. Colleagues, the fight against tax fraud is a fight of our society against fraudsters, which we will have to fight together. You can at that level at 100 % on my bet (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u48	I would first like to address my colleague, Mr Scourneau. Will we really explain to the families and businesses in our country who pay their taxes here, that all these structures in tax havens are normal? Or shall we get the money where it is, not by chance, hidden and unjust? We agreed with the government that we would step up the fight against international fraud. Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am very pleased with the measures you have announced today. I am very pleased that you have confirmed once again for the whole of Parliament that there is only one word for offshore structures that are used to evade tax, and that is fraud. We need to get the cheaters out. We owe this to ourselves and, above all, to all the people and companies who pay their contributions here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u49	Minister, I hear your willingness to track down the financial arrangements used to evade tax in Belgium. However, I am still not reassured and I will tell you why. Because you're announcing future plans, while next door there are past acts. What are they? First of all, your government has abolished the post of Secretary of State in charge of combating tax fraud. Then, on Tuesday, your representative made sure to remove Seychelles from the blacklist of tax havens, when we know very well that this country is concerned by the Pandora Papers. That is extremely shocking, Minister! On the other hand, I will respond to the comments of my colleague from the MR who explains that choosing the least imposed route is not illegal. That's right! Except that as a member of the executive, as well as a legislative power, we have the opportunity to say, at some point, that a system is so immoral that it must become illegal because it takes place at the expense of our hospitals, our schools, our public services and therefore of all our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u50	Minister, I can't believe your answer! Regarding the European list of tax havens from which three countries have been removed, you say: "Ah! But it's not us! It's the grey list! It is the World Forum that decides. We don't have anything to say about that. They've moved from blacklist to graylist." But which countries have you removed from this European list of tax havens? Anguilla! That's zero euros of tax. It is a country that does not apply tax and you tell us that it is removed from the blacklist, arguing that it is not really a tax haven. Seychelles is country 2 used by Belgian fraudsters from Pandora Papers! On Mondays, you receive information about Pandora Papers, on Tuesdays you remove it from the European list of tax havens! Minister, how is this possible? Explain to me? How is it that there are only four officers in your department who deal with tax havens? Four agents! Is that normal, minister? No, it's not normal!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u51	Mr Minister, in the preamble, I would like to say that action is not a gesture, but exactly the opposite. But for that, we should want it! I hear your answers, minister. You are very willing, and I congratulate you. The work on the recommendations, both from the government and from Parliament, will have to be truly up to date. We must fight with all our strength against those who fraud, those who undermine the state. At the time of building the budget, there is not enough money and this situation is perfectly unbearable. We know where the money of those who don't want to play the game is hidden. Be ambitious, Minister, on this issue! Everyone must contribute to their measure because we all have to win in solidarity, in social justice and therefore in tax justice. To encourage you, Minister, as I have many requests, I also have a small gift for you. It is a mask of the Network for Tax Justice (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u52	Mrs Cornet, your time has expired. Your remarks are not audible and will therefore not be transcribed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u53	Mr. Minister, we have heard your plan and are fully in line with that logic. I would like to say to the new colleagues who have joined Parliament under this mandate that I did not spend eighteen months as rapporteur of the Panama Papers Committee to have cartoon lessons on what the MR might possibly expect or say. The reality is that there are legislation. And, if at some point your morals are hurt, you file texts. People are not condemned for morality in a rule of law! I said and I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u54	Minister, I heard you. As you said, the fight against tax fraud is global but is, at the very least, a triple issue. First of all, it's a matter of justice. The latter demands that everyone pay their fair share to the community because the Belgians do not understand that while they pay their taxes here, others shelter their money there. A question of solidarity, then, because every euro recovered must enable us to improve our solidarity system and our social protections. A challenge for the future, because investing in our future needs and in our transition is no longer an option, but a requirement. So, Minister, Finance, Justice, the police, must have the legislative, human and technical means to effectively combat fraudsters. To do this, you will always be able to count on the Socialist Group. Without waiting, let's do what you said. Let us bring together the Finance and Justice Committees of this Parliament together with your Justice and Home Affairs colleagues, and let us decide on concrete and effective progress in the fight against fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u55	Minister, I believe you. I really believe you're working on the fight against fraud. However, much remains to be done. Let Vivaldi be the government that finally implements all the recommendations of the existing fraud reports. Let Vivaldi be the government that invests in Justice and Finance to ensure that such cases can be dealt with in a serious way. Let Vivaldi be the government that lets tax officials cooperate in the prosecution's fraud investigation. Let Vivaldi be the government that makes our fellow countrymen realize that there is no point in going to dubious locations because we will find them and punish them. Mr. Secretary, you have a fraud plan. It may be necessary to update and extend that plan and to ensure that the existing recommendations are included in the plan. In that case, you can come to Parliament with the fraud plan 2.0 for further discussion. You'll find a partner in us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u56	Madam President, at the start of the sitting, the Rules of Procedure were discussed, in particular the bizarre way in which you interpret the Rules of Procedure in order not to give Mr Wollants the floor today. Of course, one can always argue about the Rules of Procedure, although I do not think it is possible in this case, but I would just like to point out that the Minister has just received seven minutes of reply time. I find no argument in the Rules of Procedure to give the government seven minutes' speaking time. However, the Rules of Procedure provide for the government to be given five minutes in an actua debate. I think this can be interpreted as an absolute maximum. You are showing stringency here in order for everyone to work within a certain time frame. This can help the smooth conduct of the debates, and you know that I support you in this. Here, however, you are again making an interpretation that is not supported by any kind of support, to the benefit of the government and to the detriment of the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u57	The Rules of Procedure, Mr De Roover, do not provide for a five-minute speaking time if there are more than two speakers. Those five minutes were decided by the Conference of Presidents in case there are more than two questions, but it has also been said that more time can be given if there are more questions. In this case, seven Members have asked a question. I did that here, giving a little more time because seven questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u58	Madam President, five of those seven questions came from the majority, but that aside. I'm guessing they want an answer, too. If the Rules of Procedure provide for the government to intervene in a topical debate for five minutes, then it is obvious that if two minutes of speaking time is actually provided for in the case of topical questions, this extension to seven minutes goes completely against the Rules of Procedure. I will also mention this in the Conference of Presidents, because the imbalance between the treatment of the government and Parliament on the one hand and the opposition on the other is beginning to take on very serious proportions. You cannot expect us to continue to accept this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u59	There is no topical debate, these are oral questions. The rules governing the oral questions provide for two minutes for the Member of Parliament and the Minister as well. Then one minute is provided for the reply. So I could have given seven times two minutes. That is what the Rules say: two minutes per Member per question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u60	Madam President, Minister, "31 million euros of counterfeit invoices', '19 million euros of black payments', were headlines this week. We met with the Veljkovic system. That is a real win-win-win situation: win for the player involved, win for the club involved and win for the broker involved. In that story, there's one loser, the IRS. That is all of us, those who pay fair taxes. Today, as we read in the newspaper, some of these brokers and clubs also appear in the Pandora Papers, which leads to tax havens. In addition to these football scandals, we have not yet discussed the unfair tax and parafiscal benefits of the big-time players in sport. How can we defend that if the sporting interest is subordinated to personal gain? With CD&V we have been presenting a number of concrete proposals for a long time. Firstly, subject the clubs and brokers to anti-money laundering legislation. For the clubs, that's okay. As far as brokers are concerned, we ask Minister Dermagne to move a gear up to make that possible. Secondly, we are asking for the exuberant brokers' fees to be reduced. We have also tabled a proposal on this subject. Finally, the tax and parafiscal benefits of large-scale workers in sport must be taken into account. That is essential, not to fish some sector, but to ensure that sport can be real sport. Mr. Secretary, how do you deal with these scandals? Are there any special control actions planned? What initiatives will you take in the future to avoid this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u61	Madam President, Mr de Matheï, you too are right. What has been revealed over the past few days and weeks really speaks to the imagination. All I can say, like you, is that it's deguising and pissed us off. There is indeed an urgent need for moral standards, corporate governance within football and sportmaking. Operation Zero has exposed several elements related to match fixing, money laundering and tax fraud, on which recent developments in the media are building. It is clear that it is a very complex dossier. That's why the parquet is still working on her investigation. I hope that it will come to its final conclusions very soon. There are also several investigations within my own BBI administration. Most of the files currently being processed by the BBI also stem from Operation Zero. You are asking what measures we can take in concrete terms. In fact, Parliament has already taken the lead in this by requiring football clubs to be covered by anti-money laundering regulations in future, and that brokers would also be covered by the same legislation if an agreement was reached with the Regions in order to carry out this subjugation. The Minister for Economic Affairs, who is responsible for this, is conducting a number of discussions together with the Federal Parliament and the Regions. In addition, you yourself put in place a legislative proposal to set a ceiling through taxation on real estate charges. That too is a possibility that we are investigating. In any case, we are all discussing this within the government's bosom, but it is too early to respond further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It's good to let the IRS and the Justice Department do their job. I think we should follow that closely. We continue to focus on the application of the anti-money laundering law to brokers and clubs. We will continue to look at how we can reduce exuberant fees for brokers and address the tax and parafiscal benefits. It is not for us to defend that the State is the largest sponsor of certain clubs and brokers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u63	Madam President, Minister, last July, 132 countries agreed on a minimum tax on multinationals. It was an event. It is probably even a major historical tax revolution that the government must support unambiguously; a revolution that will tax wealth where multinationals produce it, not where they declare it; a revolution that will destroy the very notion of tax haven; a revolution that will have to put an end to this destructive race at least so-called tax and competition between states; a revolution, finally, which should give States considerable means to finance health, education, employment and transition. Tomorrow, the G20 will look at the details of this agreement again. Let us not be afraid to say this: a 15 % tax rate is a first step, but it is not enough! We Socialists believe that a rate of between 21 and 25 per cent would already be more ambitious, knowing that 21 per cent is the rate advocated by Joe Biden. As a reminder, 21% is an additional 15 billion revenue for Belgium. Today, Mr Minister, I am here to convey to you the concern of the Socialists; the concern of the Socialists at a rate too low, but also on the question of the carve-out mechanism, these exemptions currently negotiated for multinationals with real activity in the country. Let us be clear, this mechanism is only justified if its use is strictly regulated and limited. The risk is to ruin years of work and prevent us from achieving tax justice goals that the whole world says are joining. Mr Minister, following the G20 and at European level, Belgium will have to plead for an ambitious rate and for a strict limitation of the carve-out mechanism. Are you ready to defend this position? Are you prepared to defend a combative position, both on the rate and on the possibility of exemption? Behind this rate of 21%, there are 170 billion for Europe, 15 billion for Belgium; or 19 billion with a rate of 25%.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u64	Dear colleague, after the meeting with 140 participating countries, the inclusive framework and the OECD will publish a new, more elaborate proposal with a detailed implementation plan for both pillars. This proposal will be discussed at the highest political level at the next G20 summit in Rome at the end of October. The planned deployment schedule remains quite ambitious, with more detailed elaboration, transposition in 2022 and entry into force in 2023. As regards the imposition of the digital economy under pillar 1, this will be achieved by drawing up a multilateral convention to which the various Member States will be able to accede in the course of 2022. With regard to the overall minimum tax, pillar 2, the European Commission is preparing to present a draft directive to the Member States when the OECD technical work is completed at the end of this year. This project will then be discussed and refined between the Member States in 2022 so that it can be implemented at national level in the second half of 2022. As far as technical work is concerned, it is likely that the final percentage of the overall minimum tax will be set at 15%, which we can accept from a Belgian point of view. The limited diversion of tangible assets and salary costs will also be elaborated in more detail. Thus, in the coming months, technical work will continue within the inclusive forum and the OECD. We are therefore very pleased that an important step will soon be taken with a new form of taxation that corresponds more to the more digitized society. In addition, it is also becoming increasingly clear (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u65	Minister, thank you for this information about the timetable. You don't really answer the question of exemptions, carve-outs. I sincerely believe that this question brings with it a whole series of traps. A minimum rate too low, 15%, coupled with the possibility of too high exemptions, and it is the mountain that risks giving birth to a mouse since this would bring the actual tax rate paid to extremely low levels. This would lead to a lack of a whole range of objectives. First, we would deprive ourselves of legitimate revenues that we could reinvest in building the world of tomorrow. I repeat that between 15 and 19 billion, depending on whether the rate is 21 or 25 per cent, it is money that the country needs. Next, we would miss the issue of tax justice; in the end, the nurse, the secretary, the mason and also the boss of an SME would continue to pay proportionally more taxes than Coca, Shell, Facebook or Nestlé. Minister, I beg you, for the rest of this matter, to put Belgium on the right side of history!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u66	Minister, my question is very concrete. Will you decide to allow a third booster dose of covid-19 vaccine to be given to caregivers? Indeed, if vaccinated persons are very effectively protected against the severe forms of covid-19, it is now known that vaccine efficacy is gradually decreasing from the sixth month. It is also known that people who are double vaccinated can be infected and carry the virus. This is what justified a third dose of vaccine, not only for patients at risk but also for people over 65 years of age. A booster dose can be used to increase vaccine efficacy, as validated by the European Medicines Agency. A booster dose also reduces the contagiosity of the virus. Other countries are moving in this direction. France, for example, has just validated a third dose of vaccine for caregivers. It is therefore essential that the decision be made for our caregivers for three reasons, Minister: - to protect caregivers who are at the front, in direct contact with covid-19 patients; - better protect vulnerable patients they treat and minimize the risk of transmission; - to protect everyone's health. Unfortunately, this is not just a theoretical question, since we must regret the tragic death, a few days ago, of a general practitioner in Lembeek, Dr. Roger Vandroogenbroeck, double-vaccinated and contaminated after reanimating and saving a patient suffering from covid-19. Minister, are you going to allow a third dose of vaccine for caregivers? I expect a clear yes from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u67	Mr. Secretary, have you forgotten something again? Do you know you forgot something? Yesterday I received a number of phones from very worried staff at vaccination centres. Their operation is no longer legally regulated. What about it? We passed the emergency bill together. In the emergency law, a number of nursing tasks were assigned to care providers, provided that they were trained so that they could vaccinate and prepare vaccines. That emergency bill will end on October 1st. You knew that. At the moment when elderly and at risk patients receive their third shot and vaccination centres are rolling out for that third shot, you forget to put the legislation in order to do so. This means that the medical students, the labs, the veterinarians and the pharmacists who vaccinate and prepare vaccines are not protected in the vaccination centres. They have no legal framework. How can you abandon those medical volunteers who have given the best of themselves? How can you not extend their legislation? How can you not ensure that this legislation is in order? How come you didn't? When will you make that right? By what time can you correct this legislation? Who will bear the responsibility? Who bears the responsibility of the vaccines that have already been put in place this week, will be put in place and put in place until you take care of everything?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u68	Madam President, Mrs Fonck, the question you have asked is extremely important for all the reasons you have given, but also for ethical reasons. Indeed, in view of all the efforts made by caregivers – sometimes superhuman efforts – during this pandemic, we need to look very concretely at the issue of the third dose for caregivers. We therefore sought the advice of the Superior Council of Health on all the next steps with regard to booster doses, asking it to pay particular attention to the issue of nursing staff, but also to that of patients suffering from chronic illness. You asked me to make a clear statement in favour of this third dose, which I never do without scientific advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u69	There are!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u70	No! We have asked for the opinion of the Higher Council of Health. I hope to receive it in the near future because it is an extremely important opinion. Mrs Depoorter, first of all, it is truly touching that you have come here to tell me that the law you have not supported in Parliament is so important that you did not think it was a good law and did not approve it. It is said that there is more joy in heaven over one convert than over a hundred believers. I'll take that into account. I'm very happy. Secondly, I would like to inform you that the task force vaccination of the agencies that are specifically involved in the organisation of vaccination centres has not received any questions. So no questions have been asked, either from the Flemish Agency or from the Walloon and Brussels colleagues. No question has been asked by the agencies to extend the emergency law. However, like you, I also hear things from the terrain. The day before yesterday and also yesterday, I received signals from people who were wondering whether the emergency law should not be extended. I had contact immediately, including with the person responsible for the Flemish Agency for Health and Health, with the remark that it did not report this and with the question whether the Agency considers it necessary to extend the law. This means, however, that we must take a new legal road. I hope that you will be more forthcoming in passing the law if necessary than you did last time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u71	Thank you, Minister. I can hear you today and I hope you're open. I hope that a speedy realization will follow. Indeed, the scientific elements are now known and very clear. With a booster dose, there is an 11-fold lower risk of infection, and the risk of serious forms is 19-fold lower. They're evidence. We cannot take any risks, neither for the health of caregivers at the front – including in the front of covid patients – nor for the fragile patients they treat, nor for our health at all. Above all, let us recall: we now have enough doses, in a large way, since six million doses of vaccine are in stock. This makes it possible to move forward very quickly, both for those for whom a third dose is already decided, and also for caregivers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u72	Minister, I share your emotions, and we already have them in common. I am moved by your answer, because you are very good at putting the blame on someone else. Minister, your Head of Cabinet replied to the announcement that the emergency law had not been extended: he was surprised because he assumed that the emergency law should not be extended. Colleagues, an emergency law runs until 1 October and the head of the Ministry of Health doesn't think it should be extended in order to be able to vaccinate responsibly? Mr Minister, that is a blow to all volunteers who have developed the Flemish vaccination centres to an international success of their own free will and with great enthusiasm. You've been very negligent here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u73	Mr Minister, we have drawn attention to breast cancer in women today with many colleagues, but did you know that in our country there is also a man with breast cancer in 100 women with breast cancer? That's 120 diagnoses a year. At European level, there are more than 1,000 deaths. These are figures from 2006 and that is the problem, because very little research has been done, not only in our country but also internationally. We can see that men are prescribed the same treatment as women, while different diseases are involved. Men are very often referred to gynecologists, while breast oncologists would be in place here. One in three does not receive adequate treatment, which means that the mortality rate in men is 5% higher than in women. Patients also experience that they are not treated in the same way, e.g. in the reimbursement of medicines and in the follow-up ultrasounds, which are free for women but not for men. There is therefore a great need for knowledge and research, but also for sensitisation and information for the general public and care providers. Colleagues, I would like to draw attention to this on the international day for breast cancer in men. Minister, I would have liked to know your plan of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u74	Mrs. Muylle, it's a good thing you're doing that. The general nomenclature for ultrasound and mammography does not distinguish by sex. Men and women are treated equally, but the rather specific provision of mammography at increased risk makes a distinction between men and women, because the risk factors are different. This problem has been raised at the RIZIV. No change has yet been proposed there, precisely because there are several risk factors and follow-up methods which need to be properly identified first. In breast cancer, there is the difficulty for certain medicines that we have a lot of clinical evidence for their effect in the treatment of women and little or no clinical evidence in men. One then gets a dossier and a decision for women, but the rule is that if the mechanism of action of a medicine is not sex-related, one extrapolates and says that it will also work in men, on the basis of that understanding of the mechanism of action. It is a little more difficult if the mechanism of action of a medicine is related to, for example, differences in the constitution of human beings, which are sex-related, and hormones. There is the problem that we do not always have studies that allow this to be specified for men and women or to assess the effect in men, despite a mechanism of action that is sensitive to gender. That's a specific problem. For a number of hormonal treatments, the conditions for reimbursement have changed in recent years, making them accessible to men (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I heard the last thing you said, and that was important. I hear you're working on it. At the same time, you are clearly saying that there is a real need for additional research, additional data, awareness and information. I have tabled a resolution on this issue, precisely so that there would also be a multidisciplinary approach for men with breast cancer. I hope that I will have the support of the Chamber and that you will be able to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u76	Madam President, Minister, this Sunday is an important climate event. We support this initiative. It seems to us good that the citizens continue to put pressure on all the governments of this country. Let us acknowledge that, for the past year, you have still not agreed on the distribution of the climate effort. You said that you wanted to see these efforts change in terms of distribution at European Union level, but at Belgian level, we are still waiting, just a few blocks from COP26, for the effort and its distribution among the different entities. When you were on our benches, in our place, you have repeatedly criticized the fact that entities cannot agree on this effort. You have often called on the different governments. Today, your political formation represents three-quarters of the different entities. It seems to us that you should take control of this issue, be ambitious and be able to present something before COP26. I would like to know what you are going to do in the next three weeks to present an ambitious Belgian plan to COP26.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u77	Mrs Matz, I can only acknowledge the usefulness of mobilizations such as Sunday's. They have contributed to the enhancement of ambitions. You said that after a year there was no agreement, but without prejudging the outcome of the negotiations, I would like to recall that the previous agreement came to an end after six years of negotiations. Mrs Frémault will be able to talk to you better than I do about the difficulties of the negotiations. I am not at the manoeuvring, it is Wallonia and I can tell you that my colleague Henry does not spare his efforts. The federal government, for its part, is doing its part, and probably more than its part, in sharing the effort when it happens. In the majority agreement, we committed ourselves to adopting policies and measures that contribute up to 55% of greenhouse gas emission reductions. We are in the final rounds of discussion around a note that would pass to the Council of Ministers tomorrow or next week at the latest. In addition, there is a relatively new climate policy framework and a willingness to increase our federal involvement in climate finance. In addition, at the federal level, we are ready to negotiate the Fit for 55. I am not prejudging the outcome of the discussions between the federated entities, but as far as the federal government is concerned, we are ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u78	Madam Minister, thank you for your ambition. I hope that this package will pass on to the federal level with the ambitions you have mentioned. However, your remarks are a little short. You say that you are doing what it takes for an agreement at the federal level – which we all hope – and for the rest, you say "circulate, there is nothing to see"! Ms. Frémault had obtained this agreement for the COP in extremis. I hope you will also be able to play a leading role in the workings to be put on. You say that this is none of your business and that the hand is to Minister Henry, who is your political party. It is good and it must be done, but it will also have to be translated into action. I hope you will live up to the commitments you proclaim during the marches.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u79	Madam President, Minister, yesterday, the World Health Organization (WHO) gave its green light for this first malaria vaccine that could be given to children. It is indeed a very rejoicing news. It is known that malaria is still ravaging in many parts of Africa. It is all the more gratifying that it took a hundred years of research to reach this point, as my colleague Piedboeuf reminded me, and that, moreover, it is the Belgian company GSK which will contribute to the distribution in a pilot programme which the WHO will set up from this year onwards, with an administration of nearly 10 million vaccines per year and then gradually 15 million vaccines per year until 2028. Minister, what is our development cooperation's role in effectively contributing to the distribution of this vaccine? What will be the logistical implementation required to do so? Finally, last but not least, will you need additional budgets to achieve this laudable objective?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u80	Madam President, Mrs Jadin, all those who have already visited tropical regions know how important it is to arm themselves against this terrible disease. With regard to the 400,000 deaths a year, this vaccine is a real step forward. After more than 30 years of research, the malaria vaccine was born in our country, which is now recognized by WHO. The fact that this vaccine was developed in Belgium fills me with pride. This is part of a long tradition. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, malaria affects all of our partner countries in Africa. The use of this vaccine will save lives. This will also have an impact in the countries in question. Currently, Belgian Development Cooperation is active in health in eight of our partner countries. We are ensuring better access to health services – here we are talking about prevention and care – by strengthening the health system. We are also funding the Global Fund to Fight Malaria, Tuberculosis and HIV to the tune of €15 million a year, as well as UNICEF, which facilitates immunization of children. This is a first victory, but we must be vigilant and ensure that this vaccine can be accessible and affordable for the countries most in need. In the future cooperation programme, I would like to highlight the sharing of our knowledge and expertise in health. Malaria is one of the most important causes of death in Africa and the world. That is why the development of this vaccine is a great moment and a source of hope for the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u81	Minister, indeed, it is a great hope for the years to come. In addition, it is known that the vaccine is not the ultimate healing tool. We need information and coordination campaigns, and you've talked about it. I want to say to all those who sometimes protest against pharmaceutical companies that research costs. It took thirty years, even a hundred years to achieve a result like this one that is encouraging and that will hopefully help a lot of children to have a more decent life or to have a life at hand:"We must keep on building, we must keep on trusting." Thank you very much for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u82	Madam President, Minister, today we are paying EUR 714 more in energy than last year. Energy Watchdog CREG calculated that and said that those price increases will continue until the summer of next year. However, I have also read in the CREG report that a number of countries in Europe are showing decisiveness in combating these price increases. Spain, for example, as I read in the report, reduces VAT on energy from 21% to 10%, and France also intends to do so. I read that this percentage is 10% in Italy, 8% in Luxembourg, 6% in Greece and 5% in Malta. In our country, on the other hand, we pay 21 % VAT, the rate of caviar, a luxury fare. Perhaps that is because in this House a number of Members are struggling with cheap energy prices. Not to quote a Bart De Wever, who literally said five years ago in The Seventh Day: "Energy prices will be high, and that's actually not a problem. Get used to it." Some people seem to think that's not a problem. But the good news is the N-VA isn't in the government. Come on and the Parti Socialiste will, two parties who said before the elections that they would make a VAT reduction to 6% a breaking point. A breaking point is a point where you break. I understand very well that you have to make concessions and cannot realize everything: that is obvious. But a breaking point serves to change the beacons. That is why I only have one simple question for you, Madam Secretary. Has there been one party at the Council of Ministers during the last two weeks who has put that 6% VAT on the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u83	Madam President, Minister, we have already had a purple-green government, which has ended in apple blue-green. That purple-green government came to power in 2000. Before that government was in power, we were implementing energy, because 15% of our electricity production went abroad. Since that purple-green government, we have introduced up to 25% a year. In addition, Mr Dewael will agree that Electrabel was sold by Prime Minister Verhofstadt and Minister Vande Lanotte to the French. In 2011, our gas plants closed down. A planned gas power station in Visé, which was already provided and had everything in order, was not opened at that time. Gas plants were not profitable at the time. They couldn't compete with all kinds of certificates, like green electricity certificates. In the meantime, you know that with these certificates about EUR 35 billion has been promised to be repaid by the taxpayer. The green electricity certificates are refunded via the electricity bill and partly via taxes. Now, with the hell in the head, the nuclear power plants are being shut down, and in order to compensate them, we will buy gas. The gas is purchased from Qatar and from the Russians. In the meantime, that gas has become the most expensive in the world. The gas price has not increased twice, but times ten. Madam Minister, I had put my question to the attention of the Prime Minister, but I will ask you my question. In 2012, you literally asked yourself the question: "Why not reduce VAT on energy?" You are probably short of memory, because recently you said: "A VAT reduction is an expensive measure and let people who don't need it (...)"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u84	Colleagues, let me start with the VAT aspect. More roads lead to an affordable energy bill than just the VAT reduction. The government's policies and actions focus on that today. In February, the government already extended the social tariff target group, which today protects 1 million families, 2 million people from rising energy prices. I'm gonna give you a few figures to tell you that. Thanks to the social rate, the families to whom the social rate is automatically applied today paid 27 % less for electricity in August and 64 % less for natural gas. Enlargement represents an average annual savings of EUR 690 for natural gas and 20% for electricity from households. Mr Mertens, you have given examples from abroad. France introduces a discount of EUR 100 for 20% of vulnerable families. The Belgian federal government is doing seven times more because it is taking the global situation very seriously for all our neighbouring countries to be confronted with it. We do not need to go after the facts, because we are protecting 1 million families and 2 million people in the facts today. We will not stop there either, because it is important to intervene in a structural manner and to control the federal share of the invoice. The introduction of the energy standard in the form of an excise duty is therefore on the table. I welcome your questions, colleagues. We discussed this in plenary last week, we discussed it in committee last week, and today we are standing here again, because it is a matter of concern to us all. It is a matter which the government also takes very seriously. We propose a mix of short-term structural measures and measures. The aim is to intervene in a structural way for everyone and to make us resilient to future price increases. We are doing this, as the European Commission has said, by focusing on renewable energy, which is falling in price. By the way, Mr Dedecker, our gas does not come from a Belgian gas field, our oil does not come from a drilling platform in the North Sea and our uranium does not come from a Limburg mine. But we can make and pay solar and wind energy in our own country. And at times when there is a lot of wind, we can also carry out our wind energy. We need strong interconnections for this. By thinking in the long term and acting in the short term, we can make ourselves resilient to that situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u85	One pretends that high energy prices are only a problem for the poorest in society. I fundamentally disagree with that. I am very much in favour of the social tariff. I strongly oppose the statement that we are solving all the problems by simply extending the social tariff. We must ensure that more people do not end up in poverty. The energy problem is a problem for the whole government and for society as a whole. I find your statement that in the last two weeks no party at the Council of Ministers has put the 6% VAT on the table, quite bizarre. That wouldn't have come up at all? That's what I'm astounded about. But the good news is that we in the PVDA are proposing a majority change, as we did for the Health Fund two years ago. Let us approve the 6% VAT from the opposition and with the social parties in the majority in order to implement that measure for the vast majority of our population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u86	Madam Minister, I asked why you used to be in favour of a VAT reduction, but not now. It's not new. The Socialists know that, too. On 1 April 2014, 55 days before the elections, they reduced VAT to 6%. After the elections, two index jumps later, VAT went back to 21 %. You mean you'd cheat on us, ma'am. I'll tell you why you're cheating on us. Who pays the bill for those 1 million families who get the social rate? Not you. Those who don't get that fare, they pay the bill. Shall I tell you what you've dropped into the people's electricity bill? She's a collector! Barely 30 % is for gas or electricity, the rest are taxes and charges to pay your green sintering Klaa policy. And who's gonna pay for that? The ordinary man in the street has to pay for that. It is not you to do the CO2 because by the gas plants (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u87	That concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u88	Madam President, when a communist begins to quote, that does not bother us very much. When the quote is not correct, so be it. It's probably from the Agitprop department. So that's not something to really worry about. However, when a minister makes a statement here that is not in line with the truth, we have a more serious problem. I had it looked up not to go over a night of ice cream. Minister, I would like to welcome you, because it is about you. You have just expressed your surprise to Mrs Depoorter. You have even noted that she would come to heaven because she would have changed her opinion on the bill that she referred to, namely the bill to allow nurse activities in the context of the coronavirus and the covide epidemic to be carried out by persons who are not legally competent to do so. Minister, is that the law you were talking about or am I mistaken?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u89	(...). [[No microphone.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u90	So it's that law. I have the report here. The law has been passed by a series of committee members. There were no abstentions and there was a vote against by Raoul Hedebouw. I don't know why, but he may have explained that extensively then, with or without false quotes. There was a yes voice by Kathleen Depoorter, Frieda Gijbels and your servant, Peter De Roover. A few weeks later in the plenary session, our group also approved the law. Minister, Mrs Depoorter is not the sheep that suddenly returns to the sheep stable. She has not been out of the sheep stables, just like her colleagues in the N-VA Group. You have given an impression here that is not in line with the facts. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u91	Madam President, Mr De Roover, you are talking about the law that delegates the nurse's documents. However, there has also been the law on combating pandemics in the health sector. That law is also important and even more important in this respect. I believe that you had a different attitude under that law. The essence, in my opinion, is not the law on nurse's documents. You have to look at the whole thing. However, I always want to look at this again and again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u92	I agree that this is not the essence. The essence is that you have made sure that in recent days many people have given vaccines in non-legislative conditions. That is the essence, you are right. Nevertheless, I believe that the debate should be conducted correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u93	I have seen many procedural debates here and I have heard many interesting speeches about the number of minutes. Usually they take more time than the extra two minutes we were talking about. However, I wonder on what basis of the Rules of Procedure we are now extending Question Time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u94	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u95	You're right, Mr. Laaouej. I propose that we continue our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u96	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 October 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 October 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u97	The next item is the counting of the ballot for the presentation of a double list of candidates for the appointment of a French-speaking judge to the Constitutional Court. The next item is the inclusion of the votes in order to propose a list of two candidates for the appointment of a French-speaking judge to the Constitutional Court. Nominations were announced in plenary on 23 September 2021. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 23 September 2021. The document containing the names of the candidates was distributed to you. (2203/1) The piece with the names of the candidates was delivered to you. (2203/1) In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 23 September 2021, members were able to vote from Thursday 23 September 2021 to today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 23 September 2021, members were able to vote from Thursday 23 September 2021 until 4 p.m. The two youngest members present, Sophie Rohonyi and Melissa Depraetere, are invited to attend the counting of the ballots. This will now take place in Room 3. The two youngest members present, Mrs Sophie Rohonyi and Mrs Melissa Depraetere, are invited to be present at the recording of the votes. This will now take place in Room 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u98	Only one candidate was nominated. Therefore, I propose that you appoint the Speaker of the House's final Bureau during the sitting on Tuesday, October 12, 2021. Only one candidate was nominated. I therefore propose that the President of the Permanent Bureau of the Chamber be appointed at the plenary session on Tuesday 12 October 2021. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u99	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Loones.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u100	Madam President, I can easily refer to the written report because it is very short. That is why I have decided to intervene further in this dossier, here in plenary. So, with your permission, I would also like to make a brief intervention after my report. It concerns a fundamental dossier, namely the question of what we are doing with the accounts and the accounts of the state. How does that work? Institutions are given a budget, which is approved here in the Chamber. Afterwards, we'll check them out and send them over if necessary. In the end, the accounts end up here and it is up to us to state that everything has been done correctly, fairly and correctly. We must be honest, ladies and gentlemen, we are going far too lightly on these exercises. The services control it and we hold a small debate on it in committee, but very limited. Questions have been raised mainly by our N-VA Group and Flemish Interest and there have been very brief interventions by the Liberals and the Greens. Other parties have not even bothered to be present at that debate, let alone intervene. Today, too, I note that other parties do not find it worthwhile taking a brief position on this dossier in plenary. That is why, on behalf of those who have made an effort, I would like to make a few brief points in committee. After all, I think that we should take our job more seriously in this area. In politics it seems to be a reflex to think: it's about past accounts that we can't change anything about anymore, it's what it is, we're declaring it so that we can get rid of it. That's a bad reflex, especially because it's about very large amounts. Take, for example, Fedasil, the agency for the reception of asylum seekers. Today, we're going to validate their accounts. It is an agency that has spent more than EUR 536 million in the year 2020. We are being asked to certify those accounts, while the Court of Auditors raises serious questions and the company auditor has even refused to consider a number of aspects. We are talking about large sums, in this case 536 million! Moreover, I could also have the whole debate on migration policy behind these figures. Why is this going to be 536 million when we are not having an asylum crisis at all? Only at the peak of the asylum crisis, in 2016, was Fedasil also spent 570 million. Today there is no European asylum crisis, but still so much money is being spent. In normal years, that's about half, about 250 million. It is about large sums of money, and I do not think there is enough doubt as to whether everything is going properly. Yes, I know the services are making efforts to improve accounting. Yes, we also know that the Secretary of State, with results, is making efforts on these accounts. Yes, I also know that the previous governments also had the same problem and that we should not want to be more holier than the Pope. However, I think it is necessary to take the floor here, because we really need to do better and because we are facing a special moment. We are facing a very special moment because we all know what to do this weekend and what to do here in Parliament next week. This weekend there are important budget discussions within the government. I think this dossier is indicative of that. Last year we also had a budget debate. That budget was actually a draft of the outcome of a negotiation which was conducted far too quickly by the Vivaldi Government. Today we cannot afford that again. Your government faces a huge challenge, a huge challenge not to repeat last year's mistakes. The challenge is to come up with a credible budget this year, with measures that support the reforms and with figures that are in order. That's your responsibility. Madam Secretary of State, at the same time you face a huge challenge, because I sincerely believe that your credibility will now have to be proven. It's not enough to communicate punishment in the media, people expect you to get results. You have rightly raised your expectations yourself. I was pleased with your instruction, just before the summer, to the monitoring committee. Then you finally said that we had to stop putting linear savings into big jars. You want to see the specific lines in the budget. We want to see precise figures. You create expectations, and that's good. You also create expectations for the budgetary exercise. You are the only one who still defends the coalition agreement. What's in your own table last year? There would be a fixed budgetary exercise of around €2 billion, with a variable exercise of around €1 billion. Together, this is EUR 3 billion. That's in your own coalition agreement. There is only one Secretary of State who is still defending that coalition agreement today, and that is Mrs De Bleeker. That's your honor, Mrs. De Bleeker. I wish you the courage to defend that coalition agreement. Everyone knows that the coalition agreement is still far too lax. The IMF has calculated that with this effort of EUR 3 billion, we will still have the worst budget in the EU. Even that seems too ambitious to you. You want to do worse than bad. Madam Secretary of State, you have created expectations. You sincerely want to encourage you to ensure that those expectations are met. I am always imagining how this is going at the negotiating table. I have the impression, like probably many people, that the high word is currently being used by the PS. They say they don't really want to do anything. I imagine that you will then raise your finger to ask for the floor and tell me that you want to go for EUR 3 billion. Then what happens in the Council of Ministers? I think everyone will look at your Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Van Quickenborne. The question is whether Mrs De Bleeker is speaking on behalf of Open Vld. Is what she's saying serious? If what she says is serious, then Vice Prime Minister Vincent Van Quickenborne will undoubtedly support this. I think we all have the impression that Vincent Van Quickenborne will just keep quiet, giving everyone the signal that Mrs De Bleeker communicates well and defends her files, which is beautiful but should perhaps not be taken too seriously. That brings me back to this specific dossier. This is the best proof of the exercises we stand for. We need to approve accounts for a lot of institutions that just go in the red. They're doing extra spending on top of what was originally budgeted. It concerns an amount of EUR 52 million to be spent on top of what was initially budgeted. Now it is expected that we will just validate those accounts. We all owe better work to the tax payer, we have to come up with more results. We must do this ourselves as Members of Parliament. You will at least have to do so at the negotiating table this weekend.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u101	I support Mr Loones. Our two parties have intervened on this not insignificant piece of work in committee. The problem with what is going on here is that all the institutions are being thrown into a pile. A number of institutions are doing their best, such as the Federal Planning Bureau and the Federal Debt Agency. Friend and enemy will have to admit that they manage Belgium's immense public debt in a good way. They have their accounts in order, too. However, there are a lot of other institutions that have a lot of comments to make. That is, of course, the problem with what is going on here, and it turns it into a potpourri, which is then being chased by Parliament. For example, Fedasil has reception centres under its own management, but also spends a very large part of the reception on reception partners. The Court of Auditors is particularly critical of this. The Court of Auditors says that the institution controls the allowances to the host countries too little and not systematically. There are no additional checks on these partners. However, it concerns many millions of euros of our taxpayers' money. Checks are carried out on other partners, but not enough, which makes Fedasil's company auditor a reservation for this part. Then we shall also make a reservation. In addition, the Court of Auditors has been pointing out for years some of the problems facing the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, but which have not been addressed to the ground for years despite the many recommendations. In her speech in committee, the Secretary of State said that the problems have been solved since she was in the government. There wouldn't be any more dirt in the air. We are making the necessary reservations about this. I should like to respond to Mr Loones' invitation to talk about the budget. Madam Secretary of State, you stand up in the press as the new Margaret Thatcher. I think, however, that she has already turned her grave a few times in the meantime, because of the many comparisons with the Belgian budget and state debt. You may know one of Thatcher's famous statements: "The problem with socialism is that you eventually run out of the money of other people." The problem with Walloon socialism is that the Flemish tax money is ultimately inadequate. You must take that message with you to the squabble cabinet that is your government. There are the many billions that are magical and, ultimately, there is no clarity. We hope that next week we will have the necessary clarity in the government statement, with figures, so that we can question you here about your responsibility. So far, you've only made statements in the press. If we ask questions in committee about everything you state in the press, then there will be no answers. We therefore hope that we will be able to have the debate fully again next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u102	Madam President, we are here today for the discussion, not of the 2022 budget, but of the approval of the 2020 accounts of the administrative services with accounting autonomy and of the administrative public institutions. It is my intention, and I have always said this, to systematically improve the quality of these accounts by asking the various institutions to take account of all the comments made and to submit the accounts in good time and to be precise. We're working on that one step at a time. For example, since this year a new software package has been used in the Buildings Regie der Gebouwen. That is also what I said in committee. Step by step, we are trying to improve those accounts and make sure that they are there much more in time than in the past, with the aim of responding to possible problems and being able to follow them well. As far as my answers in committee are concerned, in the middle of the budget negotiations, it is obviously difficult to go into very detailed questions about how that budget is to be drawn up. I hope to be able to give the necessary answers by next week and look forward to it with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u103	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for entering into the debate and answering a number of questions. That is how we know you: you are of good will and you show that you are doing a number of things, but now you repeat the debate we have had in committee. You say that we cannot expect you to take a stand because we are in the middle of the budgetary negotiations. But what do we determine? That you make big statements in the press every few weeks. That was also the case in the last few weeks. Apparently we should not ask you questions because the budget talks are going on, but you may communicate in the press at the same time. That's not serious. Parliament can expect more respect from you and, indeed, from the whole government. Anyone who can communicate toughly in the press must also be able to stand up in this Parliament. I regret that you are hiding behind formalism when it comes to respect for parliamentary democracy, but it seems that you do not hold on to these formalisms when beautiful pictures can appear in the newspapers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u104	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u105	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2115/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2115/1) The bill has five articles. The draft law contains 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u106	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u107	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The budget adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2205/1) The budget adopted by the committee shall be the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2205/1) The rapporteur was Mr Christian Leysen, who referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed. The vote on this budget will take place at a later date. The vote on this budget will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u108	Madam President, Minister, many things have already happened in the covid crisis which are incomprehensible and inexplicable. It may make sense that liberals, and Mrs De Block in particular, would prefer to leave things blue-blue. Even the special committee failed to put its finger on the sore spots, while it was its job to learn lessons and ensure that we would do better next time. But criticism seems to slip away from government members and institutions like duck water. It's a dust that's being wiped off the shoulder in a casual manner: annoying, but who cares? Public institutions must be left alone, a committee of inquiry is not necessary for something like this, is it? The patient, this sick country, was neglected to carry out a thorough investigation. Without thorough examination, no good diagnosis, no proper therapy without diagnosis. And we're not even talking about prevention yet. This generation of politicians experienced a crisis of rarely seen magnitude. It is therefore up to this generation of politicians to seize and remedy this momentum, before knowledge and experience are lost. But it seems too late. Memories fade, mistakes are made again. The mouth masks made it to the media, but the tests were much less visible. But also in that respect, things have gone seriously wrong. I'd like to take you back to the beginning of the crisis. It started with the central reference lab. The professor and expert of service demanded that all tests in that first wave pass through him. Only he forgot to store test fluids in time, and then minimized the need to test. There were queues. Only people with severe symptoms were entitled to a test. Contact tracing had quickly become completely impossible. The first wave was untenable. It became a tsunami that flooded this country. And that while there were many other laboratories, hospital laboratories with competent, experienced people who could test as well as that reference lab, only they were involved too late. Communication and understanding with the laboratories continued to be very problematic throughout the crisis. That didn't get any better when the first federal testing platform was established, consisting of industrial labs that had no experience with medical samples. Problems arose with the quality and speed of the analyses. It also did not improve when the Director-General of the Medicines Agency appeared to play a dubious role in ordering and examining serological tests. By the way, he's still under judicial review. Once again, the clinical labs were abandoned. In the meantime, the clinical laboratories had scaled up, and the Red Cross lab had also prepared to handle additional tests. However, there was no agreement with the existing system and another alternative circuit was created by the government. This time the university centers were involved and the federal testing platform bis was kicked out of the ground, an idea that would have sprung from the brains of, yes, a university professor with a lab. Come on, the minister said, and the donkey stretched out. The fact that there can be good negotiation when the lines are short and in an unfamiliar environment may be clear, because the government came up with pockets of money. Eight sites were launched that each received no less than 720,000 euros per month to provide staff. For the eight sites together, this is 5.76 million euros per month, almost 70 million euros per year. It didn't stop there, because there was also a start-up fee. Machines and test material were supplied, all by the government, all with tax money, and then there was a fee per test performed. A large number of staff can already be recruited for EUR 720,000 per month. One of the sites reported in the media, thanks to the work of a investigative journalist, that 22 people were hired. This means that EUR 32,700 per staff member per month would be available as wage costs, staggering and, I believe, not immediately market-based. Another site indicated that there was indeed money on surplus, but that this was used to dampen other wells, incredible but true. There are problems with hospital funding, and we all know that by now. But it is, of course, unacceptable that such an arbitrary approach should be taken. On aime la crise, said the government, and they didn't look at a penny. Meanwhile, it appears that the federal testing platform bis is far from reaching the agreed 2,000 tests per day and that there is serious waste of taxpayers' money. Almost EUR 20 million would have been spent on tests that have not been carried out, regardless of whether the whole platform was needed at all. It's unbelievable, the burger said, and he pulled the belt on. Minister, I have a few specific questions for you. How many employees were recruited by each lab of the Federal Test Platform bis over time? Was there any responsibility for the use of funds? How much of the monthly 720,000 euros per lab went to wage costs? If the money has not gone to wage costs, to where and is that money also recovered? In what way was your decision recently announced in the press to reduce the rate of EUR 720,000 to EUR 270,000 per lab? What's that amount based on? Why was an evaluation not foreseen after a few months as well as a shielding mechanism? Do we now have to pay a fine when the agreements are reduced and how much is the fine? Is it true that the experts who advised the creation of the federal testing platform were not independent, since it was about their own university? Was an independence test carried out and can it be excluded that personal funds have flowed to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u109	Madam President, Minister, last week I said that we could already write four blunderbooks. The presentation of the test policy by Mr Gijbels could already be a book in itself. A study by Het Laatste Nieuws shows that the federal testing platform bis was too generously served with financial resources. That platform was established to cope with the abundance of testing during the different corona waves. The funding was fixed on a flat-rate basis so that each lab would carry out a minimum of 2,000 PCR tests per day and could handle a maximum of 7,000 tests. Now it appears that the required minimum number was rarely or never reached and that some labs have not recruited the necessary staff to do so. However, the remuneration for this was provided for. Meanwhile, some 20 million euros of tax money were paid for tests that were not carried out. That can certainly count in saving times. The study decided on 4 October 2021 to reduce the lump sum of EUR 720,000 to EUR 270,000 per lab. That's something. Mr Minister, all this raises a number of questions for us. Firstly, where were the finances intended to recruit additional staff? Will you call the labs to account? What sanctions do you provide for if there is an abuse of resources? How many staff were recruited in each lab? Secondly, what are you basing yourself on to reduce the lump sum to EUR 270,000? How do you know you won't be too much of this amount again? Thirdly, why wasn't the platform thoroughly evaluated and updated? The last question has been on my mind in this crisis for a long time. The experts who advised the establishment of the federal testing platform proved to benefit from testing as much as possible. Why did these experts continue to participate in advisory councils and all kinds of task forces? Was there sufficient investigation into their involvement? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u110	In order to be able to answer the questions asked, I have to go back to the summer of 2020. At that time it was feared that we had insufficient test capacity. The representatives of the private clinical labs specifically said at that time that they were unable to meet demand. I have a statement on record from Alain Derom, representative of the private clinical labs, Mrs Gijbels, who explicitly underlined in July 2020 that 50,000 tests per day could be taken care of, but no longer. If people tell you today that they said they could do more, then I think they have a short memory. The private labs said, "We can't do that." The previous government, especially Minister De Backer, then looked for solutions, in the form of the federal testing platform bis, which had to be able to test up to 100,000 people a day. I think Minister De Backer has done a very good job there. In the summer of 2020, the agreement was reached, whereby the eight labs of the federal platform guaranteed that they could run 7,000 tests a day each. In return, they received a guaranteed reimbursement of the staff costs. For 2,000 tests, that actually amounted to 720,000 euros per month. This has been followed up by all kinds of calculations. So one had to run two shifts a day, so many people had to work a shift, so many days a month. Basically, those labs had to be able to run around day and night. It's been calculated what that would cost, and then that deal came about. For the record, I do not want to pass the responsibility on to Mr De Backer, because it has had a lot of groundwork before that meeting was concluded. Eventually it was October, the new government was coming and I became responsible. It was October before the agreement with the labs was finalized. But it did happen on that base. I would like to remind you of what was said at the time. Then there was talk of shame, because one would never be able to test enough people and called for an urgent increase in our test capacity, because we were at the abyss because of insufficient test capacity and everything would go wrong. I can show you numerous press articles from that period, from all the newspapers I have them here with me - in which they were begged to do, please, what was possible to increase the test capacity. You yourself have often underlined this in committee at that time: testing, testing, testing; more tests, Minister, do everything you can to test more. You were right then, because we were dealing with the second wave. The general practitioners were overwhelmed. People had to wait three, four, five days for the results of their tests. We then made the very unfortunate decision to indeed review our testing strategy. That was not really good, from a medical and epidemic point of view, but we started testing less until we had our capacity back on scale. We were then given our capacity on a scale. On a certain day in the third wave, we tested 87,000 people. What happened? Private clinical labs have indeed started testing more than they originally said they could. So they shouldn't have said they couldn't. So it's absolutely right that the federal labs didn't test that much in the end. They stayed under the guarantee. In the summer of this year we did not immediately revise it; there was a contract. If you look back at that period, you will no doubt remember why a change would not have been evident. At the beginning of the summer there was once again the fear that we would not have sufficient test capacity. Travellers should be tested on departure and return. There was Pukkelpop, Tomorrowland, mass festivals where should be tested for the non-vaccines. We assumed we shouldn't take any chances. We have the contract with heavy costs, but indeed with guaranteed test capacity available. Looking back on that, you may be critical of it, but at that point, I do not think it was obvious to say that we no longer needed that test capacity. We actually paid for a capacity mechanism. In other sectors, a capacity mechanism is also paid for. Now people are complaining that the decision was made under the influence. That's a little weird. That decision was finally prepared by Mr De Backer and formalized by me, with the RIZIV, with the FPS Public Health and with Sciensano. In the end, the agreement was knocked off in the insurance committee of the RIZIV. The experts you mention aren't in there. There are representatives of the private labs and they have approved it. The funding you're questioning was also addressed by private labs at the time. I don't even want to discuss it, because I don't know. Anyway, the agreement was not approved by the people you mention here. It was approved by the insurance committee of the RIZIV, with the representatives of the private labs and the top people and interests defenders of clinical biology at the table. In retrospect, it can be said that we didn't need that much capacity. I'll admit it. What did I do? I did let that go in the summer. I did make a general saving of EUR 22 million in the summer by lowering the price of the test set from EUR 47 to EUR 40 because I also thought it had become an expensive story. Then, without having to pay any costs or compensation, I agreed with the parties in the agreement that we would reduce the guarantee from a calculation based on 2,000 tests to a calculation based on 750 tests, with an available capacity of 3,000. This means, in concrete terms, that we are going from EUR 720,000 to EUR 270,000. I can give you that calculation, but you may assume that that calculation is correct. That was without any compensation. Of course, we do have an agreement. For the record, that's an agreement where I can't immediately accuse the parties of some kind of malpractice. That agreement states that we pay so much and that the counterparty has that capacity ready. I can't say they didn't do that and they didn't set up that capacity. We have never had to rely on that high capacity with those private labs, so that is not verifiable. By the way, that would be the only thing that matters. Should we learn from that? Certainly we must do so, as we must learn from so many things. Anyway, think back to the many debates we have had on this. The big scare was that we'd run out of capacity. In 2021 alone, we spent 737 million euros of federal money on testing. I'm not saying that in my head, and I hope I'm not mistaken. You say that the capacity mechanism was too expensive and that we have given it extra money. That's right. That has increased that invoice by 20 million euros, according to the calculation I can make. That EUR 20 million is a cost of a capacity mechanism, but let us think, rather than saying that there were malpractices here and suggesting that people have put money in their pockets, think about how much such a test apparatus and how much clinical biology costs, how much profit is made in it - there are nice profits made, including in the private laboratories - and how we can do that as economically as possible in the future. Madam President, I think I have answered most of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u111	Mr. Secretary, I haven't really heard anything new. You say the clinical labs were questioned in June 2020. At that time the crisis was in full swing and there was also a shortage of reagents, so I understand that they were not ready to test at that time, but the federal testing platform was also much too late. As a result, the test strategy had to be adapted. Meanwhile, the clinical labs had scaled up themselves and the Red Cross lab was ready to test, but they weren't turned on. The Red Cross lab has hardly received any applications for testing. You say they've been questioned, but there's never been a dynamic overview of the total capacity in the clinical labs. They've just been pushed aside. You may now ask for the floor again, but it is up to me to replicate. You have still not explained what happened to the overpaid funds. After all, this is a completely unfair situation when compared to other hospitals. In the media it is said that the money has been used to fill other wells. It is not possible to give a bag of money to someone and say that they can do whatever they want with it, but they must also try to test it. I also think it is very strong that you say that you will not intervene until the day this news arrives in the media. If we had not asked about this, and if we had not pushed it through, how long would we have been able to go through this system? Madam President, we will table a motion for further clarification. We still want to know where the funds have gone and whether they can be recovered, because we have still not heard from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u112	Mr. Secretary, I will begin with the independence of our home virologists. You say that they are not on the committee where everything is approved, but in the end we know that this platform has come up with its advice. So spare us your nice talk. Those people have done their lobby work well. It is clear that the test policy, as well as the vaccination policy, is making huge profits. We don't have anything against winnings, of course. We have a problem with that when it happens on the taxpayer's hood. So we'd like some certainty about that independence test of our home virologists. You also talked about the mass tests that had to be carried out in the summer: for people who traveled, wanted to go to festivals and so on. That was all part of the test policy. In response to a colleague's question, you said on 19 May, I quote: "We will have to consider the mandate of the federal testing platform at the next stages of the pandemic. This will have to evolve and financial mechanisms must also be reviewed." On 19 May, Minister, you said that! Even then, you were convinced that something had to change. Meanwhile, it's October 7th and nothing has changed. So spare us your nice talk in the vein of "afterwards it's easy to say." No, Minister, you were convinced on 19 May that something had to change. Now, five months later, nothing has changed except that the amount has finally been adjusted, because it was published in the press. Throwing other people's money is therefore a property of socialists. Mr. Secretary, we're also going to table a motion. We stick with it: we want to know where those money flows to the labs eventually went. We want clarification, so it's fair to everyone. And we also want an investigation in which our experts are subjected to an independence test.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u113	I just wanted to say, Mrs Gijbels, that Mr Derom, the spokesperson for the private labs, explicitly said that the private labs could do 50,000 tests in autumn 2020 and no longer. This is essential in decision-making. He said that on the record in De Standaard, in July 2020. Suppose you are Mr De Backer and you are faced with this: then you decide to develop an alternative offer. So we must not question that. The search for a capacity mechanism therefore made sense, even though the private labs developed a larger range months later. That is all I want to say. That is not a reproach on Mr Derom. But it was a very important starting point. Mrs Sneppe, I did say in May that we should think about the system. We kept doing that. But later the Consultation Committee said that Tomorrowland and Pukkelpop could take place in the summer, thanks to the testing. It was said that there should also be constant testing at multi-day festivals: 100,000 people on Pukkelpop. Imagine that. They didn't end up there, but we had to be ready. In those circumstances, of course, you have to be careful and you cannot say that you are going to reduce the test capacity. In hindsight, you might wonder if that test capacity was necessary. You don't hear me saying that everything went perfectly. But in this kind of debate, the perspective must be right. That's all I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u114	Minister, you ask what I would have done if I had been in Mr De Backer's shoes. I know very well what I would have done if I had been in his or your shoes: I had supported those clinical labs and had not established an alternative circuit. There were staff and experts on the subject, they were already used to analysing all these tests, nothing had to be built up. Indeed, devices and test fluids may have had to be supplied. But an alternative circuit, which also benefits certain people and hospitals over others? I think that is a really tough coffee and I wonder if people are realizing that taxpayers' money is being spent here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u115	The President: The following motions were tabled at the end of the discussion: In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Frieda Gijbels and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of the ladies Frieda Gijbels and Dominiek Sneppe and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - having regard to the Federal Test Platform bis, with laboratories attached to the university centres set up in the context of the Corona Crisis Response; - having regard to the fact that professors attached to the laboratories of the universities concerned resided on the Advisory Councils which played an essential role in the establishment of the aforementioned testing platform in its final capacity, - having regard to the abundant funding of this testing platform by the federal government; - having regard to the study by Het Laatste Nieuws that shows that the above financing is clearly disproportionate (i.e. excessive) is involved in the Federal Test Platform bis in view of the actual content, activities and (staff) costs of the laboratories; - having regard to the many questions concerning the opportunity and proportionality of (the capacity of) the Federal Test Platform bis and the corresponding financing and the uncertainty as to the final destination of this financing; - having regard to the many questions which Mrs Gijbels has already put to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, to his predecessor Mrs De Block, and to Mr De Backer, and why no clarification was (too) given for a long time; - having regard to the principles of good governance and the obligation for the public authorities to deal with taxpayers' money carefully; - having regard to the importance of the optimum guarantee of parliamentary control and respect for the democratically elected representatives and the people they represent; - in view of the distrust that a lack of transparency and proper management of public finances may lead to public opinion and the undermining of the social support for the measures taken to address the covid-19 crisis resulting from this; asks the government - clarify the way in which the Federal Test Platform bis was established in its final capacity (and not in any other form) and in particular the precautions/tests taken here to ensure the independence and objectivity of this process; - to clarify the way in which the financing (and, in particular, the methods of calculation used) was achieved and evaluated in its final size and composition and the safeguards provided to ensure that the resources were used effectively and fully for the objectives pursued; - clarify the ways and purposes for which the sums allocated were ultimately used and the monitoring and adjustment by the public authorities; - clarify the contracts with the laboratories linked to the Federal Test Platform bis and the possible existence of fines to be paid by the government in the event of the early termination of such contracts, - ensure that any improperly used funds are recovered without delay, - discuss the need and development of a (proportional) federal overflow capacity with clinical laboratories; - always ensure maximum (and active) transparency in relation to: its public services, their functioning and the information they hold, and in particular with regard to: the information relating to our health system and the response to the COVID-19 crisis, including the associated financial flows and their follow-up; - to ensure that sufficient caution is always shown within the government and public administrations with regard to the correct use of taxpayers' money and that the principles of good administration are respected; - ensure that responsibility will be assumed in relation to any misuse of taxpayers' money." A first motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Frieda Gijbels and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mrs Frieda Gijbels and Mrs Dominiek Sneppe and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - having regard to the Federal Testing Bi platform, in which laboratories are attached to the university centres, established as part of the management of the health crisis; - in view of the fact that the professors attached to the laboratories of the universities concerned have sat on the advisory councils which have played an essential role in the development of the above-mentioned testing platform in its final form; - having regard to the staggering funding of this testing platform by the federal authorities; - having regard to the investigation of the daily newspaper Het Laatste Nieuws which shows that the above-mentioned funding is clearly disproportionate (i.e. excessive) to the actual tasks, activities and costs (staff) of the laboratories associated with the Federal Testing Bi platform; - given the many questions that arise about the timeliness and proportionality of the Federal Testing Bi platform (and its form), its funding and the lack of clarity surrounding the allocation or final allocation(s) of this funding; - having regard to the numerous questions put on this subject by Mrs Gijbels to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Public Health, to her predecessor Mrs De Block and to Mr. Backer and on which clarification has (too) been long overdue; - having regard to the principles of good administration and the obligation of the public authorities to use the taxpayer's money scrupulously; - given the importance of ensuring optimal parliamentary oversight and respect for democratically elected Members of Parliament and the people they represent; - in view of the mistrust among the population of a lack of transparency and inappropriate use of public finances and the consequent risk that societal support for the measures taken in the context of the Covid-19 crisis will disappear; asks the government - to clarify the manner in which the Federal Testing Bi platform has emerged in its final form (and not in another form) and in particular the precautionary/control measures applied to ensure the independence and objectivity of this development process; - to clarify how the financing (and in practical terms the calculation methods used) has emerged in its final size and composition and has been evaluated, as well as the guarantees provided for in order to ensure that the means are effectively and fully allocated to the intended purposes; - to clarify the arrangements for allocating the amounts allocated and their purposes and the monitoring and adjustments made by the public authorities in this respect; - to clarify the contracts concluded with laboratories attached to the Federal test platform bis and the possible existence of fines to be paid by the public authorities in the event of early termination or limitation of such contracts; - to ensure that the means which may be misused are immediately recovered; - to deal with clinical laboratories with the need for and development of a federal (proportional) overflow capacity; - to always ensure maximum (and active) transparency with regard to its public services, their functioning and the information they hold, and in particular with regard to information relating to our health system and to the management of the health crisis, including the related financial flows and monitoring in this regard; - to ensure that sufficient caution is always exercised in government and public services with regard to the correct affection of the taxpayer's money, and that the principles of good administration are respected; - to ensure that, where appropriate, responsibility is assumed for any improper allocation of the taxpayer's money." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Dominiek Sneppe and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of the ladies Frieda Gijbels and Dominiek Sneppe and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - having regard to the results of the research into the financing of the Federal Test Platform bis, - having regard to the advisory role of the experts and their relationship with the test laboratories; - in view of the inadequate handling and many blunders during the corona crisis; asks the government - to thoroughly evaluate, adjust and recover the cash flows to the laboratories of the Federal Test Platform where necessary. - to subject the advisory experts to an independence test.' A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Dominiek Sneppe and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mrs Frieda Gijbels and Mrs Dominiek Sneppe and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - in view of the results of the analysis of the financing of the Federal Testing Bi platform; - in view of the advisory role of experts and their links with screening laboratories; - in view of the shortcomings in the management of the coronavirus crisis and the numerous gross errors committed during this crisis; asks the government - to assess in depth, adjust and recover, where appropriate, financial flows to the laboratories of the Federal Screening Platform; - to submit expert advisers to an independence test." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Melissa Depraetere, Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mrs Maggie De Block. A simple motion was tabled by Melissa Depraetere, MM. Wouter De Vriendt, Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf and Servais Verherstraeten and Mrs Maggie De Block. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u116	Madam President, we are asking for urgency for our motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u117	Mrs Depraetere is asking for urgency. Are you sure you don't mind? Thus shall be done. No observation? That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u118	Voters 102 Stemmen White or invalid 2 Blank or invalid Valid 100 Geldig Two-thirds majority 68 Two-thirds majority For the first candidate Ms Emmanuelle Bribosia obtained 95 votes Ms Anne Weyembergh obtained 3 votes For the first candidate Mrs Emmanuelle Bribosia received 95 votes Ms Anne Weyembergh received 3 votes Ms Emmanuelle Bribosia, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared the first candidate for the vacant position of French-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court. Mrs Emmanuelle Bribosia, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, has been appointed first candidate for the vacant post of French-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court. For the second candidate Ms Emmanuelle Bribosia obtained 2 votes Ms Anne Weyembergh obtained 95 votes For the second candidate Mrs Emmanuelle Bribosia received 2 votes Ms Anne Weyembergh received 95 votes Ms Anne Weyembergh, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, is declared a second candidate for the vacant position of French-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court. Ms Anne Weyembergh, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed second candidate for the vacant post of French-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u119	By letter of 21 September 2021, the Assembly meeting of the Joint Community Commission announced that it had formed itself at its meeting today. By letter dated 21 September 2021, the United Assembly of the Joint Community Committee informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u120	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 October 2021, I propose that the following bill be referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget: - the proposal for a law (Egbert Lachaert) concerning the greening of the company car fleet, No 399/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 October 2021, I propose to send the following legislative proposal to the Finance and Budget Committee: - the bill (Egbert Lachaert) on the greening of the company car park, No. 399/1. This bill had previously been referred to the Committee on Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda. This bill was previously sent to the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u121	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill amending the Law of 6 May 2009 on various provisions relating to asylum and immigration and the Law of 15 December 1980 on the Access, Residence, Settlement and Deportation of Aliens, concerning the organization of the Council of the Litigation of Aliens, No. 2228/1. The Government requested the urgency declaration, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the Law of 6 May 2009 on various provisions relating to asylum and immigration and amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry to residence, the establishments for the expulsion of foreign nationals concerning the organisation of the Council for Foreign Affairs, No. 2228/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u122	Madam President, thank you. The urgency is motivated by the fact that this project allows the Council for Aliens Litigation (CCE) to increase, in the short term, the number of judges in asylum proceedings. This increase in the temporary framework is all the more urgent in a context where the reception network is almost saturated as the capacity for reception has been greatly affected by the number of quarantine places imposed by the covid-19, the floods in Wallonia and the recent crisis in Afghanistan. In addition, the number of applications for international protection has increased further in recent months (in September 3,261 persons applied for international protection). An increase in CEC output is therefore an important measure that can help to reduce the occupancy rate of the host network to a sustainable level. This increase in the temporary framework will enable the various asylum bodies to process applications for international protection quickly and thus provide the applicants with a definitive response within a short time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u123	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u124	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u125	Mr Hedebouw, you are asking for the urgency of Bill 2231/1 to reduce VAT on gas to 6%.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you for the urgency of our proposal for a law to reduce VAT on gas to 6%, on the one hand, bearing No 2231/1, and on proposal 2232/1, calling for the same thing but for electricity. I don't think I have to add much to the emergency situation. I think everyone is well aware of the completely incredible prices today for the sale of energy (electricity and gas). It seems to us that the reduction of VAT is one of the urgent measures that can be applied. On the other hand, and it's interesting, there's an alternative majority possible tonight. I want to say that the parties that took it back on their agenda are at the point of breaking. If they support the urgent request today, we can debate these two proposals quite quickly in committee. I would therefore like to warmly encourage you to vote for this urgency. The way in which amendments can be dealt with can still be examined in committee. There is no problem, no copyright in this matter. It's copyless for us, but the emergency is still there. I thank you already in advance for this vote, which I have no doubt is of a positive nature.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u127	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u128	Mr Hedebouw, you are asking for the urgency of Bill 2232/1 to reduce VAT on electricity to 6%. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u129	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda of 29 September 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 29 September 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 167/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms Leslie Leoni. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 167/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Leslie Leoni. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think the study of the Inter-Parliamentary Alliance on China was very clear. Among other things, the study stated that Belgium cannot export 159 goods without import from China and that 7 goods even touch national security or are crucial for chemistry or the pharmaceutical industry. In particular, there is concern that the availability of some goods could be manipulated as a function of political interests in China. In fact, that confirms what I have said before in Parliament. I think we should do something about this import dependence. Therefore, with my motion for a resolution, I specifically ask for a vision to be developed at last to deal with the vulnerability caused by the dependence of Chinese imports, among other things, to make takeovers in strategic sectors difficult, to ensure maximum protection of our companies' technological knowledge and to facilitate reshoring of production of strategic importance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u131	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u132	Yes 78 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u133	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 29 September 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 29 September 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 170/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 170/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u134	Madam President, I give a brief explanation of vote on behalf of Mrs Dillen. Aggression against guards is unacceptable and must be dealt with strictly. In recent weeks there have been regular reports of guards being attacked by inmates. Both in Turnhout and in Merksplas aggression is daily cost. The fact that prisoners are allowed to receive more people or receive training outside prison would also increase the number of drugs smuggled into prisons. Which in turn results in more aggression. Staff are also regularly understaffed in several prisons. In the latest facts, on 4 September in Merksplas, there were no less than 28 people too short. Another problem that has been identified is that there are too many interned people in prisons. In Merksplas, for example, as many as 50% of prisoners are interned. Belgium has already been condemned on several occasions by the European Court of Human Rights. This aggression against guards has been dragging on for years and has resulted in guards becoming completely exhausted both physically and mentally. The purpose of this motion is to ensure immediately that the necessary measures are taken to catch up with the recruitment of guards, to make the work and status of guards more attractive, to take the necessary measures to prevent violence against prisoners, to instruct the prisons to prosecute any form of violence against prisoners without exception, to take initiatives to punish any form of violence against prisoners more severely and forcefully, to ensure immediately that all interns who are in prison can be included in forensic psychiatric centres and to develop a well thought-out and functioning plan which not only keeps drugs out of prison but also systematically controls drugs within prisons, as well as to instruct the prosecutors to prosecute violations of drug law by prisoners within prisons. Thank you all for supporting this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u135	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u136	Yes 82 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u137	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 184/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Frieda Gijbels; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Dominiek Sneppe; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Wouter De Vriendt et Servais Verherstraeten. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 184/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Frieda Gijbels; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Dominiek Sneppe; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u138	Yes 76 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u139	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u140	Yes 129 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u141	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u142	Yes 82 Yes No. 30 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip127x.u143	We must approve the agenda for next week's sittings. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's meetings. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Tuesday 12 October 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Tuesday, October 12, 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
