ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic478x.u1	Mr President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it is not in my nature to have interplays. I think that we should use this instrument carefully and wisely in Parliament and not excessively. After all, one comes between a procedure in bicycles, which is never ideal, not even for the services. But for the subject I am addressing here, I sincerely believe that an interplay is useful and necessary and that we need to have the debate now. Mr Secretary of State, at the same time we have a guest in the hall next to our colleague, Secretary of State Eva De Bleeker. Yesterday we had a whole debate on budgetary control, together with the representatives of the Court of Auditors. I should actually be present in that committee, but I think that the budgetary needs in this Chamber are equally high. The potential budgetary impact of the plans on the table here is similar. That is why I have tabled an interplay request on this subject, as well as a number of questions. If you will allow me, Mr President, I will ride through the questions and the interplay. For convenience, I would like to start with the questions and then connect with the interplay. Why? The questions relate to what has already been decided in the light of the European Recovery Plan, for which a dossier has been submitted to the European Union. This accounts for EUR 5.9 billion, of which EUR 1.2 billion for the federal government. In addition, the federal government intends to invest extra on top of the 1.2 billion euros. That's what my interplay is about. About what we've heard, I can be very brief. First of all, can we please have all the documentation? A draft plan has already been submitted. We have received some PowerPoint presentations, as well as some of the plan as it has been delivered to the European Commission. But we still haven't gotten the annexes, for example, like some Exel tables. I think it would be good if Parliament had all the information. Secondly, it would be good to know what further agreements have been made in the federal government. Mr Dermine, you are taking on a coordinating role for the totality of the plan, especially for the federal part. I assume that you have also made further agreements with your colleagues who will follow up on the concrete projects. How will that be handled? What are the arrangements for this? How do you plan the feedback with Parliament? We have already talked about it here, but in the meantime the spirits may have matured further. It would be good to know how to ensure feedback on this. My final question on what has already been tabled is about communication and what the other European countries are doing. I note that there have been communications from the largest European countries: France, Germany and a number of southern European countries, including Italy and Spain. There was mainly communication on the expenditure of these countries, not on the precise reforms they will carry out. Has the government been contacted about this in advance? In the corridors the rumor was already going around that communication was coming. If so, why didn't you join that communication? I note that France is asking for more money, EUR 41 billion, than what was allocated to the country. According to the parameters, the country would be entitled to only EUR 39 billion. If other countries can demand more resources, it is always interesting to find out why. Maybe other countries can also take a little bit more. All madness on a stick, but it worries me that France is looking for money. Think of the Brexit Adjustment Reserve, which is now an alternative, but which will also give Belgium 25 million euros less because of French resistance. Where are we now? In communication this week, we have read that, according to its evaluation tools, the European Commission finds that your plans are among the best in terms of green investment. However, you are not yet here. After all, we score just below the European set parameter. What approach do you put first? Have any agreements been made on this? For example, do you expect a particular region to make extra green investments or will the federal government make an extra effort? My interplay is specifically about the additional measures. In addition to Europe's 1.2 billion euros, the federal government wants to invest 1.4 billion euros of its own resources in additional recovery measures. Once again, you will be asked to coordinate that operation. You are becoming the shadow Prime Minister: you can interfere with your colleagues' policies to ensure that investment is made. I can imagine that this is nice and interesting, but of course it remains a huge responsibility. In order to provide some framework for this responsibility, I would like to talk to you today about three issues: the selection of projects, the related reforms and, finally, the follow-up. As regards project selection, criteria were linked at European level. They had to be green and digital and a framework was created. As far as our own Belgian resources are concerned, there is no framework yet. However, it seems appropriate to provide a framework for our own investments, so that a number of objectives can be set and monitored. Moreover, it is an interesting moment to finally implement the passage from the coalition agreement to asymmetrically fill in federal powers. It gives the possibility to have contact with the Länder, to examine what they want to do and to find out how the federal government can be at the service of the Länder with additional investment plans. My first question is what selection conditions will be applied. Secondly, the reforms. The European money comes only if reforms are also implemented. That seems to us to be a good logic. The question is whether this will also happen with the additional federal investment budget. If reforms are in place, they should by definition be complementary reforms. It would be strange to use a certain reform to get European money and then use the same reform as an argument for investing federal money. That is not the intention, of course. We all benefit from additional reforms and more ambition. Is the Secretary of State open to that? How will that be handled? One final point concerns the follow-up, control and audit. I've been over this before. This includes a whole framework, with control by the European Commission, but also national controls such as the International Treasury Inspection Corps. Will this reasoning be continued, so that this also applies to the EUR 1.4 billion federal investment funds? What was not included in the question, but was discussed yesterday in the hearing with the Court of Auditors on the budget: the Court of Auditors is certainly also at the disposal of the Court of Auditors to provide its expertise in this respect. That might also be a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic478x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, my question fits in with the climate objectives. At least 37% of the European budget should be used to meet climate objectives. According to Green Recovery Tracker, most Member States don't make it. Neither is Belgium, although we belong to the better of the class. What is your opinion on this preliminary analysis? Will Belgium still try to make additional efforts? The professors concerned highlight the importance of correct implementation and concrete indicators. Do you have any plans for that feedback?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic478x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, I agree with a number of questions that have already been asked. So I won't repeat them. We have already had discussions on this recovery plan. Like others, I indicated that it was, in my view, an investment plan rather than a stimulus plan. I am not going to further develop this aspect on the occasion of the exchange that we have here. I agree with the point made by Mr Loones that Parliament should have all the information. Indeed, it would be wise if we could have all the elements relating to the plan as updated and accepted. I wanted to ask you about a more specific aspect. In recent months, we have had discussions on a number of projects that were planned under the Recovery and Resilience Plan (PRR) and were expected to receive European support. I was particularly interested in a project in view of the fact that it is my region, and yours: Charleroi. This was the project relating to the installation in this Plan for the Recovery and Resilience of a Military Base in Charleroi. Apparently, it was withdrawn from the plan on European request if I understood correctly. Perhaps you can give us more details on this matter? Could this investment in Charleroi be made in a framework other than that linked to this particular plan? Do you have any information about this? Apart from this aspect related to Charleroi, have any other projects been withdrawn and why? If that were to be the case, it would be interesting if you could communicate these aspects to us. Perhaps we should proceed blindly and, as Mr Loones pointed out, we should have all the information on the plan to enable us to rely on it in order to organise and conduct a more intelligent debate. Secretary of State, the withdrawal of Defence projects – the withdrawal of Charleroi's, which is worrying given the hopes placed on this aspect – is an element on which I wanted to hear you. Is there also an obligation to withdraw other projects? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic478x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, my question concerns the share of real public investment in the recovery plan, i.e. investments that contribute to the fulfilment of a public service mission or to the preservation or rebuilding of a stock of public capital. For example, an investment in energy renovation of public buildings is a real public investment. There's some in the recovery plan and that's a good thing. But in this area, the federal government is the poor parent with a single project of 10.8 million euros for the renovation of the stock exchange. You may also tell me about the Courthouse in Brussels. But beyond the symbol, do not courthouses across the country, prisons, or all the places where federal public servants work, need to be renovated? To cite just one example, in 2018, the Namur Courthouse had to be evacuated by order of the occupational welfare inspection because the building was unsafe and dangerous. I am therefore surprised that there are no federal-level renovation projects. Would the State have sold its buildings to such an extent that it would no longer have to renovate them? The offshore energy island project could have led to the creation of a public energy production company, but it is a public-private partnership. In the end, the project is likely to be more costly for the community as private investment will have to be paid. It is a consortium of investors that will finance and develop some of the activities on the island. Ultimately, who will have the power to decide on this island, the public or private investors? In the hydrogen and CO2 transmission network project, it is once again the public authorities that consent to infrastructure investment and it is the industries that benefit from it. Can we still talk about public investment in this case? This project also concerns carbon capture and storage. The least we can say is that this project is not unanimous. Do the environmental parties that are part of the government approve of the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic478x.u5	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, many questions have already been asked. So I will be very brief. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to refer to last Sunday's interview, in which you literally said that today's revival is the priority and not the budget. That the relay is a priority, I can believe very well. In the end, however, the bill will have to be correct. Moreover, we are already suffering from a very high level of debt, to which will be added the corona invoice of tens of billions of euros. I wonder who will pay the invoice. Not only am I asking myself that. A lot of citizens are beginning to ask this question. They wonder whether they will have to contribute. The answer will of course be 'yes', which will play more and more in the coming months. To re-establish our economy, job creation is very important. Unfortunately, there is not much to find. We talked about it last time. Only 3,900 jobs will be created directly. You may argue that jobs will also be created indirectly, but I nevertheless wonder how the relaunch plan will contribute to the ambition to bring the employment rate to 80%. How will you deal with this in concrete terms? The interview also refers in particular to the very vague wording of the reforms. Without structural reforms, relance will be very difficult. Professor Baert was right to point out that major reforms are usually laid down in the government agreement and not on the road somewhere. In the past this has rarely been possible. How do you intend to implement these reforms? What is the state of the government's progress towards reaching agreements? After all, it does not seem obvious to me to be able to conclude agreements with seven parties and find compromises.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic478x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am always happy to come here to discuss the recovery plan. I'll give my answers in two parts. The first part deals with the process and the plan that we have presented to Europe. The second part deals with the further steps to be taken for the federal investment plan, to which Mr Loones referred. First of all, the trial. Indeed, as I said at the committee meeting on 21 April, we submitted our plans to the European Commission on 30 April. Thank you for the discussions at our last meeting. We have had time between 21 April and 30 April to change a number of things in response to your comments. Only 18 Member States have officially submitted their recovery and resilience plans. That is two thirds of the Member States. I think we can be pleased that Belgium is one of those Member States, knowing that we started later, in October 2020. I will also give some specific answers to Mr Loones' questions on this point. Yes, we are in regular contact via diplomatic channels with France, Germany and Italy on this subject. However, there was never a question of taking part in a joint press conference. As far as reforms are concerned, I do agree with you that the emphasis is on projects rather than reforms and that some important Member States, including Germany and France, have short-term electoral deadlines, which makes matters very complex. In particular, it will be interesting to follow the French case, when we see the reactions of the Macron government's first attempt on pension reform that led to the movement of yellow vests. We know that this is the priority of structural reforms for France. But I doubt whether Mr. Macron and his government will try out this pension reform in view of the electoral deadline of 2022. Now that we have made this plan, we still have a whole series of technical exchanges with the Commission, particularly on the technical annexes. This is a constant and continuous exchange that we have had with the Commission for several months. It focuses on the technical details contained in the annexes, i.e. in the famous Excel tables that MM. Loones and Ducrame mentioned. What is found in these appendices? There are essentially adjustments to milestones and targets, milestones and targets, which are planned. We find estimates of what the Commission calls digital tagging and green tagging, i.e. the share of each project that can be allocated to the digital dimension or the green dimension. The European Commission, whose secrets I discover from the bureaucracy, has hundreds of pages on what may or may not be considered green. It fluctuates quite often. There is also an analysis of relevant principles to ensure the non-harmful nature of the various projects. Here is the main content of the various annexes. We have not yet transmitted these documents, which are to a very large extent stabilized because, on some points, they are still the subject of technical discussions with the Commission. On the other hand, I make a commitment to you that as soon as these annexes are fully stabilized - they are 90% or 95% at this stage - they will be transmitted. In the meantime, a 720 page document on the Recovery Plan with quite important details on the projects that have been submitted to Europe is available on the European Commission's website. As soon as the plan is approved, probably this summer, a first tranche of funding of 13% (approximately $770 million) can be committed for the first projects. Secondly, we were asked for a comparison between our plan and the plans of the other Member States. The directives are the same: all EU Member States had to spend at least 37% on green transition and 20% on digital transition. In general, therefore, there are similar elements in the plans. In environmental matters, in particular to answer a question from Mrs Verhelst, the minimum commitment of 37% must be assessed according to very detailed criteria relating to what can be described as "green" or not in the plan. This evaluation is still under way. Even Europe's criteria fluctuate. According to the cross-sectional academic analysis to which you referred, the Belgian plan is relatively "green". Of the eighteen countries that have introduced their plans only Finland has a "greener" plan than ours. Technical exchanges with the European Commission on the exact percentage of the European criteria continue. This is one of the very happy discussions that are under way on a technical level with the European Commission. At the budgetary level, in particular to answer Mr Loones' question on the amount in France, from a technical point of view, 70% of the final amounts allocated to each Member State are set today and 30% depend on a change in GDP which will be known in June 2022. Indeed, the allocation criteria for European amounts are the product of a rather complex formula which takes into account the population, the inverse of GDP and certain economic variables linked to the impact of the covid crisis, including changes in GDP until 30 June 2022. My only explanation for this French fact is that the French anticipate that the envelope will be variable on these 30% depending on a variation of macroeconomic parameters. Mr D'Amico, the aim of the recovery plan is to increase what economists call the gross public capital formation rate. Many infrastructure projects exist. The vast majority of them, about 85%, contribute to the increase in gross public capital formation. The reason we are working with private partners on some projects – you mentioned the energy island as well as the networks – lies in the objective of the recovery plan, which is to maximize the total effect of this plan, knowing that public money is only a fraction. So we're trying to maximize leverage. For parties that could be profitable for private partners, the objective is to work with them. If I take into account the energy island, indeed, there is a contribution via the recovery plan with public money (a hundred million). The aim, however, is, to maximize the impact on citizens, to involve construction groups, energy groups, etc., in order to carry out this large-scale project. It is the same for gas, CO2 and hydrogen networks: the aim is to work with industrialists and network developers (in particular Fluxys) to contribute to these projects, which must be part of a public/private dynamic. For the follow-up and reporting of this plan and the European part of the plan, a central control and reporting unit will be established within the FOD BOSA. This central unit will collect the necessary information on federal projects and report to the federal government. At the level of federal administrations, project cells are created with a project leader to track the projects in their policy area. They are responsible for monitoring and communicating with the FOD BOSA central unit. At most twice a year, we will send a progress report to the European Commission. I am, of course, prepared to submit these progress reports to Parliament. Every six months at a minimum, we will introduce a comprehensive report to Europe, for the entire scope of the recovery plan. This is part of our obligations to the European Union. My proposal for the Committee on the Economy is to, at a minimum every six months, share with you in an open and constructive discussion, as are our interactions from the beginning, these progress reports, to identify projects that are on their way and those that are at risk, as well as the feedback of the European Commission. The next section deals with the federal recovery plan and the federal government's big plan. The goal is indeed to move towards 3.5% public investment in 2024, therefore under this legislature, and to follow a 4% trajectory by 2030. The amounts received from the European Union are largely insufficient and cover about half of what we need. This is why the federal government and those of the federated entities are committed to doing more. I am thinking of the Flemish government, via the Vlaamse Veerkracht plan, and the Walloon government through the Get Up Wallonia plan. The federal government will take its part, as provided for in the Government Agreement. We have committed ourselves to three projects, in addition to the European envelope. We will make new commitments, which will be discussed in the coming months. As far as the three additional projects are concerned, I am reassured that the questions raised by Messrs. D'Amico and Ducrame consider them to be in line with the Commission's concerns. The first concerns an anti-drug scanner in the port of Antwerp, in order to combat the drug trafficking which hinders its logistics. The second relates, Mr Ducrame, to the "Quartiers of the Future" in Flanders and Hainaut, in areas described as "military deserts" because of an under-representation of the army. These projects were not included in the European plan, but not because they did not meet the objectives. On the contrary, the European Commission has stressed that they are excellent, as they contribute to socio-occupational integration, restoring to the army its role as a social elevator, especially in places such as Hainaut - which we know well and which must meet these significant challenges. In addition, they aim to bring the industry closer to the army. However, the Commission was faced with a major problem, which would have required it to finance defence projects as part of the recovery plans, so that several Member States could have included military expenditure. From the moment of the government agreement and even before the recovery plan, this very beautiful project had gathered a form of unanimity. It had been planned to finance it by extraordinary sums provided by the Federal Government with a view to developing it in Flanders and Wallonia. The third projects that will be financed in addition to the federal envelope - and you are right to recall this - target federal buildings, amounting to 170 million euros via the Régie des Bâtiments, particularly for Justice. Indeed, Mr. Loones, there is still a supplementary envelope to be allocated to the federal government. The aim is to build on the criteria and dynamics we have built for the European envelope. We want to have comparable investment criteria and the same investment lines. I am very positive when I see the various questions because the need to invest additional amounts is stressed in this House. As for the objective, Mrs Houtmeyers' question referred to the discussion... The question is not who will pay if we invest, the question is who will pay if we do not invest. If we do not invest today to maximise the impact on the recession caused by the corona crisis, we will pay the consequences of the corona crisis for five or ten years, as we have paid for the consequences of the financial crisis for five years. So we really need to follow a medium-term reasoning to minimise the impact of the corona crisis. Finally, I fully agree that investment is not everything and that we must also carry out reforms, as we have done for the European part. I believe that we must also carry out certain reforms that can contribute to structurally facilitating the implementation of investments. We are all aware of the difficulties encountered in infrastructure projects, whether in terms of administrative implementation or litigation. These are subjects on which we are going to work within the government. With regard to the follow-up of these additional projects, which would be integrated into a broader recovery plan, the aim is to have a uniform follow-up with European projects, except that we will not be subject to a whole series of reporting formalities towards Europe. But the aim is to deal with these investment packages in a consistent and unique way with European projects, so as not to multiply reporting formats. What I also propose, Mr Loones, ladies and gentlemen of the committee, is to include the progress report on these projects in the framework of the discussions that we will have in this committee. I'm sorry if I've gone a little past my speaking time, but the subject was worth it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic478x.u7	They were indeed interesting answers. We have now discussed EUR 1.2 billion in European funds and EUR 1.4 billion in federal funds. So we are talking about EUR 2.6 billion. It is important that this Parliament takes sufficient time for this dossier. My reply concerns the projects already submitted and the future. As far as the French demand for extra budget is concerned, you refer to an electoral structure that may be in progress in France. We can see that in different ways. I will not dwell on that. I'm worried about that particular French course. This also means that we want to interest in Belgian budgets. We have seen that at the Brexit Adjustment Reserve, now 30 % extra is requested. You see no reason to panic there at the moment, Mr Secretary of State. You must be careful, especially since France will also be President of the European Union in the spring of next year. On top of the electoral structure there is also an extra catch. You say you'll get us everything in the summer when it's finalized. In the meantime, there are 720 pages. We are grateful for that, but as a Parliament we want to see everything. It is also our job to carry out our control of EUR 1.2 billion of resources in this case. That is a question that we will not ask you today, but will continue to repeat. Now I will talk specifically about what needs to be done, following on from Mr Ducarme's question. Indeed, the government has already taken verbatim commitments to invest 328 million euros in the Antwerp scanner and the renovation of the quarters of the future of Defense. However, these amounts are not yet in the budget. They're not listed anywhere. Mr Dermine says here: 'L'investissement est garanti'. I will see that when there is at least an amount in the budget that is not there. Soon I will ask a question about this in another committee to ensure that these budgets are used effectively. Finally, I would like to thank you for your answers to my question. With regard to my concerns, you say that the criteria will be aligned with what has been requested at European level. You are also open to linking reforms to investment policy and you say that the follow-up will be in accordance with European rules. I have translated those points into a motion of recommendation which I will table later, but in the light of your answers, I am sure that everyone will be able to support that motion. That is not just said in words, but then it is on paper and it is established in a vote in Parliament, because that is what we do in Parliament: we vote on things. I am particularly pleased with your answers and look forward to the vote which will undoubtedly be unanimous. That would be fun.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic478x.u8	Thank you, Mr Loones, if the Secretary of State answers all your questions, do you not have to make a motion? After all, it is in the report of the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic478x.u9	Mr President, as I said, Parliament must be able to vote. That is one of our core tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic478x.u10	Voices on something that's already been decided?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic478x.u11	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic478x.u12	Mrs Verhelst, you have the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic478x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, as far as the 37% on climate objectives are concerned, this is mainly about interpreting the indicators and may not require any additional effort. It is also important that it is not exaggerated and that it remains feasible, otherwise we will end up with a bad result. I would nevertheless like to take this opportunity to respond to your debate last weekend with Professor Stijn Baert. You said at the time that the relay was made up of three pillars. Firstly, investment: we are also convinced that we need to invest. Secondly, purchasing power: a great deal has already been done for this, although it is a pity that we do not dare to think of VAT on polluting consumption, despite the fact that we are talking about a green policy. Thirdly, taxation, the labour market and so on. I found it strange that the third pillar is made up of those different elements. Mrs Houtmeyers spoke about the importance of job creation, but I am more concerned with filling vacancies. After all, there are many vacancies, but people need to be brought to work. It is certainly important to motivate people to work longer, for example with a part-time pension and the like, but what do we do with the inactive inactive? Voka and the VBO mainly want more and motivated people and certainly not the cheapest wage burden. Now they have to look abroad again. This means that they must again seek other solutions for the relay. Labour wages are a contribution to solidarity. I fully support this. We are happy and proud that we can support people in need, but this really cannot end up on too few shoulders. Our employment rate is really too low. You know that, too. Get a relance here. Make sure older people who can work get to work. That's my biggest call.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic478x.u14	First of all, I congratulate you, Mr. D'Amico, on your beard! That makes it more Marxist and less bourgeois. Moreover, dear friend, you support the barbers, which is why I congratulate you. Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for making available the documents which enable us to follow all the elements in the Committee on the Economy in a more concrete way and to take advantage of a number of your summaries. If you had the opportunity to make them available, it would be beautiful! I hear what you say about the projects and Mr Loones says so. It's a budget. But guidance is given. You can count on my full support for the installation of the future district at the military level in Charleroi. I agree with Mrs Verhelst on the need to invest. It must now be done. But when you talk to us about additional projects not yet budgeted that would be in the European philosophy of resilience or recovery, you will not have my support for these projects, if alongside this, the government does not also plan a recovery policy for sectors that have been impacted by the crisis. I'm telling you the way it is! If this government remains solely in the philosophy of European recovery without attaching more importance to supporting policies – as it does for the Horeca – for all those jobs and services that suffered during the covid crisis, your additional projects will be without me. On the other hand, it is important to say that projects for federal buildings and construction projects are clearly visible. Mr Bombaerts' last editorial is to be read; he says that if no additional measures are taken for construction, we will miss the recovery. And he's right. Finally, at the beginning of the crisis, there was a lack of investment in basic materials. I am thinking of the masks and medical equipment that we had to import out of Europe. In these investment plans, where have we planned to stabilize infrastructure that can bring us tomorrow, what we lacked at the beginning of the crisis yesterday? I can't see anything. He's a famous buffalo!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic478x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. In view of decades of delays in public investment and the deterioration of the public heritage, I am convinced that 100% public investment must be given priority. We need to rebuild the public heritage. There is also a need for a long-term vision and for sustained public investment. These investments must be used to carry out public service missions for the benefit of the population. The aim is to meet social needs and not to increase the profitability of private companies. In this regard, we are opposed to public-private partnerships; in the end, they are more expensive because private investors must be remunerated. The paradox is that companies are becoming less and less involved in government financing but are increasingly seeking public aid. The health crisis that we are going through also shows us that, contrary to what the prevailing discourses have been saying for forty years, the market is not infallible. The State is intended to be a strong economic player in strategic economic sectors through public services. Rather than seeking co-financing from private investors for projects that, given their stakes, should be fully controlled by the public authorities, we are calling for a fair collection of taxes that finally involves multinationals and that gives the State the means to make 100% public investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic478x.u16	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. You can turn and turn your question as you like, but the answer will remain the same, in particular that the invoice will have to be paid. That will be done by you, by me, but certainly also by our companies and our hard-working population. I did not receive an answer to the question about increasing the employment rate to 80%. As Mrs Verhelst points out, there may indeed be not too few jobs, but the vacancies are not filled. This is a problem that all companies are already colliding with and is likely to increase in the future. This is a problem that we also see in all profiles, both in technical and administrative profiles. It will therefore certainly be a working point for the coming years to get people to work and ensure that the vacancies are filled. That way, everyone will be able to contribute more.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic478x.u17	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Sander Loones and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Sander Loones and the reply of the Secretary of State for Relance and Strategic Investments, responsible for Science Policy, attached to the Minister for Economy and Work, - having regard to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PHV) submitted to the European Commission on 30 April; - having regard to the Federal Government's intention to organise an additional investment ambition of around EUR 1.4 billion, in addition to the EUR 1.25 billion of European recovery funds to accompany the federal government; asks the government - enter into dialogue with the Länder in order to ensure that the additional federal investment is in line with the priorities set by the Länder and that the federal powers are exercised in an asymmetric manner in line with the specific needs of the region concerned; - to link the recommendations of the European Semester to the selection, implementation and monitoring of the additional relay projects and to ensure that the budgetary framework is accompanied by complementary reforms; - set up a thorough follow-up with a federal monitoring tool, control and audit on the entire route, including regular and thorough reporting, at least three times a year, to Parliament." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Sander Loones and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Sander Loones and the reply of the Secretary of State for Recovery and Strategic Investments, in charge of Scientific Policy, Deputy to the Minister of Economy and Labour, - in view of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (NRP) submitted to the European Commission on 30 April; - in view of the Federal Government's intention to aim, in addition to the EUR 1.25 billion envelope of European stimulus, at setting up additional investments of around EUR 1.4 billion; asks the government - to engage in dialogue with federated entities in order to allocate additional federal investments with the priorities as set by the latter and to exercise federal powers in an asymmetrical manner in line with the specific needs of the region concerned; - explicitly associate the recommendations of the European Semester with the selection, implementation and monitoring of additional stimulus projects, while ensuring that the budgetary framework is respected through complementary related reforms; - to put in place, by means of a tool of federal monitoring, controls and audits, a thorough follow-up throughout the journey, including regular and detailed reports which will be submitted to Parliament at least three times a year." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Prévot. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Patrick Prévot. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. That concludes the meeting. Thank you for coming and the interesting discussion.
