ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u1	I note, Mr. Rigot, that you have tabled seven questions. I therefore ask you to be as succinct as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, I would have liked to have interviewed you today about the asylum reception and crisis. My first question is whether there is an asylum crisis. How do you estimate that? My personal opinion is that there is an asylum reception crisis. Whether there is an asylum crisis also depends on the influx. The difference between an asylum crisis and an asylum reception crisis is that there are too few beds in an asylum reception crisis to put people to sleep. There will then be a crisis situation. If in ten days there are two strikes by Fedasil's staff at the Klein Kastiltje, which is very exceptional, you are still in a crisis situation. You say in Time that you do not want to waste time on a proposal for asylum quotas. Then what are you doing? A number of people are allowed in and some are not based on staff and bed capacity. That capacity is a daily quota fluctuating. So it's not a fixed quota, but it's a quota. I do not know what the definition of a quota would be: a number of people are not allowed in and then have to return. Those are the single men. All vulnerable profiles are first allowed in. I have always applied this in the crisis of 2015-2016. The difference is that we worked with a pre-registration system then, which you're not doing right now. You are therefore legally on very slippery ground. If you continue to do so and do not register a particular category and do not give any prospect of a registration with a date and a pre-registration, this will sooner or later lead to a conviction. You accuse me of making proposals that are not legally feasible, but you yourself apply asylum quotas in a way that I do not think is legally feasible. We'll know in the next few days. I assume that interim proceedings have already been brought and that the ruling will fall. I'll follow that up. If that goes public, we'll see which way the ball rolls. It is necessary to make a few points about the asylum situation. Is there a reception crisis? Yeah, because there are beds too short and people don't get shelter the day they want to. If they want to sign in, they'll be sent away. There are no more beds. The capacity is fully saturated and the inflow remains high. You work with quotas. Is there an asylum crisis? With a combination of high influx and a shortage of beds, I'm talking about an asylum crisis. You may be able to give your definition of an asylum crisis later, but I think we are in such a crisis. There are a number of things you can't help yourself. The corona crisis is over. As a result, there were very few international migration movements, but they are now returning. There is also the situation in Libya, where there is still complete chaos, trafficking in human beings and smugglers are free to move freely and where more and more boats are leaving. The European context remains poor, too. These things cannot be criticised and that is not my intention at all, but I would particularly like to see how we can get out of this and how we can deal with and resolve the crisis as quickly as possible. I made a number of proposals for this yesterday. As you know, I am not part of your story of the European Migration Pact with a so-called rapid screening of asylum seekers when they are at the external border in the EU. I don't believe in that at all. That will never work, because then they will be inside and they won't be able to get rid of them either. Moreover, I believe that there is also a political reluctance in southern Europe to move towards speedy procedures. People don't want it and they don't. We will never admit that, but that is what we see on the ground. But I didn't say anything about that. I didn't say anything about the staff either. You say the staff is the solution. I can follow that in itself, but there are two things that intrigue me. You have been saying for weeks that the crisis in reception has two causes: covid and the floods. The floods have caused you to close two centres. One or two centres are also used for people affected by the floods. I read somewhere that this is about a thousand places. You also say that the covid measures in the asylum centres cost a lot of places. Can you clarify how many places it covers in the total of the reception network? I think that number is particularly relative. It is important that you say that staff is really needed and that recruitment campaigns are successful. It is good to have additional staff, but that should not be the only one. Recruitment takes time, too. This is not obvious, because there is an absolute shortage on the labour market at the moment. I hope you will find sufficient staff, because that will solve a large part of the problem, but the automation of additional staff should be looked at much more critically. This has just been highlighted in the discussion on the RV, for which additional judges would be appointed, because additional officials always mean additional expenditure for the State. That's why I crawled into the pen yesterday and the day before yesterday to put some things on paper. Is my ten-point plan blissful? No. Is that gonna fix everything? Expressly, no, but it will offer a number of handles to ensure that we have less inflow and to make it clear that we are not the land of milk and honey. The clearest point is the whole story of tracking migration. Mrs Merkel, an example to you, adopted a very strict family reunification law a few years ago in the context of the asylum crisis. It has ensured that everyone who received subsidiary protection, that was the vast majority of Syrians in Germany, could not make any partner happen for 24 months. There was a complete stop on tracking migration: no partners, no children, no parents or grandparents, no one. I think this is a very good idea. Afterwards, a maximum of 1,000 approved applications per month were granted. This is still being applied by Germany. They have seriously strengthened their family reunification procedure, from 12 months of conditions free after recognition as a refugee or alternatively protected to 3 months, to submit an application. I tried that here. I tried that in the government. I really could not convince Mrs Lanjri of that. I hope you are now convinced that this is really necessary. This is now happening in Germany, in the Netherlands, in Austria, in France. All our neighbours introduced this in response to the European asylum crisis in 2015. Let's do that here, too. In the coalition agreement there is a sibilline sentence about this. Put that on the table. Our bill has been filed. I will ask for the discussion and the vote in the coming weeks. This has already been discussed. An opinion from the Council of State was also requested. It'll work. We want an increase in the reference amount. Then I come to my point on asylum quotas. I introduced the asylum quotas at two times, Mr Secretary of State: in 2015 and 2016 during the crisis and in 2018 with the Palestinian influx. In 2018 I had legal problems, but not in 2016. I think it's possible to copy that model. That is also legally feasible. Do that, please. You can also put the message campaigns online. You've started a detachment campaign for the secondary currents. I think you should do the same for the primary flows. You have been to Albania, which is a good thing in itself, but I think there is still a lot to be done online. You said that you have stopped the resettlement. I thought I understood that this has not yet been completely ignored for the most vulnerable. Did I misunderstand that? Have all the programs been discontinued at this time? As far as the Afghan humanitarian visa programme is concerned, even the Prime Minister has confirmed in a written reply that this is not the case. That's what you said. Could you explain this a little bit more? Together with your party, we introduced temporary refugee status in the previous legislature. However, this is not really being applied. However, this is with the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless (CGVS), in complete independence. However, a signal must be given. Now that's pure symbolism legislation. That should really be possible. That is a really important point. The same applies to the fight against asylum fraud. Also there you do not give the right signal, including what happened to Operation Red Kite. You really are making a spearhead of the secondary flows. The problem is that Mrs De Block refused to take care of so-called Dubliners, for which she was convicted by the labour court. However, it must be possible to start that fight again legally. I congratulated Mrs De Block on her courage to do so. I've never done that myself, but the secondary flows continue to increase. Then something must be done. You say that this is in the European Migration Pact, and it is, but it will not be approved soon. It's gonna take years. Wouldn't you try to go back to that? Legally, I think that should work. It should be possible to bring this in, given the acute situation of the asylum crisis that Mrs De Block did not have. That is an additional legal argument to perhaps try again and make it this time. I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u3	Mr President, Secretary of State, I will try to be as brief as possible. I did put a whole series of questions, but some of them had already been a while ago. I'm going to update them. There is currently a saturation of the reception network, both collective and individual, due to external factors. I am thinking in particular of the saturation caused by the floods which forced Fedasil to close some reception places. There is also the question of covid places that must be kept, if tomorrow there are to be covid clusters in the reception centres. Indeed, I would like to point out that if we invite applicants for international protection to be vaccinated, as is the case for all Belgian citizens, vaccination is not compulsory. If they are foreigners, however, they are not obliged to be vaccinated more than the ordinary citizen. Collective measures must therefore be taken to protect residents and staff. In doing so, we obviously lose places. There has also been an increase in applications over the past few weeks. It cannot yet be considered structural. In particular, it may be linked to a phenomenon of resumption of applications after the deconfinition. This has been mentioned at the level of the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA), according to which if there is indeed an increase in the flow, it cannot yet be said that this increase will be sustained. We must remain correct, but the observation is made. Moreover, there is also a congestion of the bodies with a mechanism, which is in place, of commitments allocated to CGRA and which will soon be in place at the level of the Council of the Litigation of Foreigners since the bill was voted in committee. Positive things can be retained at this level. In any case, the network is saturated with the risk that people will find themselves on the street at the entrance to the winter, which raises questions. Mr Secretary of State, what is the action plan implemented or planned to be implemented by Fedasil in order to avoid that, tomorrow, people who have the fundamental right to receive and who have the right to apply for international protection find themselves on the street? Will we be able to respond to the problem by opening buffers? What is blocking the opening of these seats? I am thinking here of collective places, but also of individual places for which difficulties also arise. You have made many calls to CPAS to open up places to ensure the flow into the network, as well as the reception of the most vulnerable people. Is there an action plan? Are there prospects for a positive response from CPAS? For several years, we have been facing blows in the water for reasons we know. Indeed, the CPAS felt betrayed when the individual seats were closed. Of course, it wasn't you. Today, CPAS need elements that restore confidence. What are you thinking about at this level to improve things? When it comes to strikers at the arrival centre, they don't judge Fedasil or your policy. Workers can no longer be in the midst of a continuing crisis. Since 2015, we haven't been out of the crisis. These people need stability, prospects, they need to know where we're going. Have you been able to meet with them and discuss with the unions? What prospects do you give in terms of job stability, in terms of the possible relocation of the arrival centre so that we can work there in good conditions? I also urge you to be careful not to restrict access to the arrival centre, not to apply quotas. We know that there have been convictions by the Council of State in the past because the former Secretary of State had put this provision in place. It is a fundamental right to be able to file an application for international protection and to be granted. What are you going to put in place so that this can be done? I also heard that the arrival centre staff did not want this quota. According to this staff, applicants for international protection should not be taken hostage to a situation they did not want. What are the solutions not to put people on the street? What are the prospects for winter? I heard Mr Franken's recipes, but I don't know what yours is. I want to hear them and tell me we're on the right track to get out of a complicated situation. Behind this situation there are human beings, regardless of whether or not the procedure they introduce is appropriate. As such, they are entitled to a quality reception during their proceedings. That's what I want you to be able to set up quickly, taking into account the well-being of the teams that give the best of themselves at every moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, last week, on Monday 18 October 2021, a strike started at the asylum seekers' centre in Brussels, the Klein Kastiltskin. The staff of the Klein Kastiltje made an emergency call, because many motivated employees are currently unable to cope with the workload. Staff are asking for two things: more reception and better working conditions. In addition, additional staff or sufficient staff are needed to deal with the applications for protection, so that the asylum procedure is less long and there is also an exit from the reception. As you know, another strike started yesterday. I also know that you have had discussions with the staff and employees of the Little Castle. Once again, they ask for the same thing, namely respect for working conditions, guaranteeing their physical safety and psychological well-being, financial recognition for their work and the necessary resources, including onhr, in order to be able to manage this properly. Those are certainly legitimate questions. It is very important that they also demand respect for the right of asylum and the dignity of people seeking international protection. Mr Secretary of State, at the moment it is really chaos. There are families with children, pregnant women and minors, so the vulnerable profiles, which are currently having to sleep on the streets. Staff have to report to them that they can't take care of them. That is absolutely a problem. We really need to look for emergency care. I know you and the government are doing everything they can to find that shelter right now. However, I also know that this is not an easy task. The solutions proposed by Mr Francken, for example, may sound easy and logical. He refers to Germany, which wants to suspend family reunification for people who have received subsidiary protection for 24 months. What, however, do these solutions mean in practice? Mr Francken, you know as well as I do that often men come here only because the journey here is extremely dangerous and unsafe, with all possible risks. They hope, of course, that women and children can come here afterwards. So what are you saying? You say that men are given subsidiary protection for Syria, a country that we know is not really safe, but that their children and their wives should stay in Syria. Allow me to find a very cynical solution. We must not act in this way. What answers do you have to the demands of the staff on the workload and working conditions? What steps are you taking to ensure, in the short term, that the acute shortage of reception places is eliminated? Do you have eyes on any additional shelters? Do you intend to organise emergency care for the people who are now on the streets and for those who cannot immediately submit their application for international protection? Can you give an update on the recently recruited staff at the CGVS? Can they be called immediately to deal with the applications? Is that effective additional staff or is it temporary staff replacing permanent staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u5	Mr President, Secretary of State, this Wednesday, 20 October, we learned of the decision taken by the mayor of Mouscron to halve, with immediate effect, the number of residents of the Fedasil centre of the city. Although the situation around this centre is notoriously complicated, this radical decision leads to many questions. In addition, Fedasil Mouscron's management does not even seem to have been warned prior to this decision, according to Fedasil's spokesman, Mr. Mansy. Since the situation is already extremely tense throughout the country with regard to the reception centres, this police order can only further complicate the work of the various Fedasil centres and send a message of rejection to the residents they would have done well, it seems to me. In view of these various elements, allow me, Secretary of State, to ask you a few questions. How do you react to the police order? How do you work with local authorities to unblock the situation? What was the finding of your recent visit to this centre? Is an accelerated opening of this centre possible in order to unblock the situation, which is not far from Mouscron? Finally, the situation in the Fedasil centres seems to be deteriorating in many parts of the country, as evidenced by recent events in Liège in particular. As my excellent colleague, Mr Rigot, has just pointed out, a minimum quality reception is a duty that our country must honour. Given the situation, I am sure that short-term measures will be taken by your services to ensure this. What are they and when will they be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u6	Mr President, Secretary of State, we need to call a cat a cat. We are facing a new crisis of reception and not a migration crisis, as some might suggest. The reasons for this crisis have already been mentioned: the covid, the floods this summer, the Afghan crisis, an increase in demands, etc. There are a whole series of factors that, of course, are not within your control. But it should also be noted that past political decisions, which are not your responsibility, have had structural consequences until now. With the government, you have already planned solutions, including additional staff engagement as well as 5,400 buffer seats. We must stress that. Providing a welcome to migrants is not a gift. It is an obligation that you respect and I thank you for that. According to information provided to the press, the Petit-Château would now accept only vulnerable people, which leads to an increase in the number of people on the street, without a solution of care, despite our obligations Secretary of State, a few days ago, you met with a delegation of Fedasil staff. What were the discussions about? What were the conclusions? Have you contacted the Brussels-Capital Region, which will be affected by this measure, but also the organisations that have been doing field work for years and are aware of the realities of migrants? I'm thinking about what happened at Maximilian Park five years ago, the Platform or other organizations. In addition to the places planned in the near future, what are the short-term solutions? Have any initiatives been taken in relation to ILAs in municipalities that could offer a medium-term solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u7	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my questions specifically concern the Petit-Château, whose staff were already on strike last Monday to denounce its working conditions which have become excessively difficult. The increase in asylum applications for many reasons and the decrease in the number of reception centres inevitably led to a massive overload of work in the remaining centres, including the Petit-Château. This puts pressure on the balance between work and personal life of staff. Leave can no longer be taken. The days are growing longer and the number of sick workers is exploding. In addition, there are difficulties associated with overpopulation. Incidents are increasing and even hygiene problems are emerging. We know, however, that having a strong reception network is essential to deal with the many humanitarian crises, beyond our control, that take place far beyond our borders. So I can't help but think that there is a certain lack of anticipation. Mr Secretary of State, what has emerged from your discussions with trade union representatives at the meeting on 20 October? Since you have committed yourself to continuing the discussions constructively, when is your next interview scheduled? You acknowledged that temporary contracts that were renewable at the last moment were not appropriate for certain positions. What initiatives do you intend to take to remedy this? Fedasil's Executive Director stated on 19 October that new recruitments had already been made. Have any new agents already taken up office at the Petit-Château since the strike? When will all thirteen new officers be hired? Do you intend to strengthen in the very short term the executives in the other Fedasil centres who also face these difficulties? What steps do you intend to take to ensure the safety of staff at the Fedasil centres until the current crisis is resolved? Finally, what conclusions do you draw from this situation? Do you not think that this strike is also the result of a lack of anticipation of fluctuations in migratory flows?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u8	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I went to the Klein Kastiltskin this morning. The workers have put their work there again today. I have received the grievances of the employees of Fedasil, and I will read out a part of them: "We, the employees of Fedasil, want to express our anger at the lack of action by our political authorities. We have had several meetings with the Secretary of State and have not received a satisfactory response to our requests so far. On the one hand, we have been alarming for several months about a structural lack of places in the reception network. On the other hand, we have repeatedly denounced a deterioration in our working conditions." Mr Secretary of State, the workers demand respect for their working environment. They want more places and resources for the reception network, a back-up for the registration centre in high crowds, and also respect for the right of asylum and the dignity of the applicants for international protection. In recent days only a limited number of asylum seekers have been admitted per day. Those who did not get a ticket were unlucky and depended on the NGOs and the volunteers on the premises. More and more it happened that those asylum seekers stayed at the doors of the Klein Kastiltje in the hope that they would be more lucky the next day. The NGOs and the volunteers catch the misery as usual. They will show the asylum seekers the way. They're picking them up. They provide two meals a day. In short, they actually take the chestnuts out of the fire for a failing government. Their work is invaluable, but they are also out. The situation is no longer sustainable. Mr Secretary of State, I have a few questions for you. Did you have any indications that the receiving network would be under pressure if you didn't expand the capacity? What will you do with the demands of the employees of Fedasil? What will you do to deal with the current crisis of reception? How many additional vtes will you recruit from the DVZ and the CGVS to handle asylum files? Will this increase then be structural or temporary? I have heard several times that you want to provide 5,400 buffer seats. Is that right? Do you think that's enough to absorb future fluctuations in the influx? Finally, what about the resistance of mayors to opening buffer spaces? 'Cause that's what you're dealing with today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u9	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, reception is under serious pressure and creates a number of documented regrettable situations. Mrs Platteau referred to it as well. This is not only the case in Belgium, but also in the Netherlands. There is no doubt that we should be able to handle this kind of shelter. If the outflow from the centres is normal and timely, then the influx is less of a problem, although it is quite high at the moment, especially if there are buffer sites. In this sense, it is a pity that the asylum services have been saved in the past at the least reduced inflow. It is also a pity that people did not or hardly believe in buffering places, because we are still bearing the consequences. This government did start a firm recruitment round and decided to open buffer seats. It is a pity, therefore, that, in the midst of the implementation of all this, we are faced with mistakes from the past, combined with increased influx, resulting in an unacceptable situation. I have a lot of questions on this, Mr Secretary of State. Capacity is best controlled by a short treatment period. What is the status of the recruitment campaign? In what other way will you ensure more outflow from the network in the short term? At the same time we hear that there is a lot of outflow of staff at the DVZ, the CGVS and Fedasil. There's little point in recruiting people when a lot of people leave. What are you gonna do about it? According to your models, what is the likely evolution of the delta, so the difference between inflow and outflow? What do you expect in the short term? Which centres are specifically planned? How many additional places is that gonna get? Will this be enough according to your model? You are strongly committed to activation and competence acquisition. How will you do this at the new locations? Will you take into account the distribution of profiles among the centres? What agreements are made on education, given that schools are already overcrowded in some locations? How are cities and municipalities helped to the maximum? In what ways will you make additional calls for reception capacity? Have the local authorities actually received a broad call? What is the situation for unaccompanied minors? How does cooperation with the state governments work in this area? What is the status of the recruitment campaign at Fedasil? Are the new employees available in the short term? How much do you currently estimate the staff shortage at Fedasil? What is your evaluation of the registration center in the Klein Kastiltje? That was a pilot project. Do you think the location is suitable to work under current pressure? We are also told that many people from so-called safe countries are in care for months. Is this true? What are you gonna do about it? How many people have so far been denied access to the network? How long have some people been out of shelter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u10	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I will not take all my time, because last week I was able to give a serious introduction to this problem in plenary, about the fact that the asylum crisis is once again getting completely out of hand. Of course, you cannot solve everything in a week's time, but apart from an agreement with the Benelux countries to implement the Dublin Regulation more efficiently, which will make little difference in net terms, we did not hear from you about the structural approach to this crisis. Your spokesperson informed me that you had discussions with the people of Fedasil and with the trade unions, but today we see that they are again on strike because of the unworkable situation on the ground. That is why you do not understand the seriousness and urgency of the matter. There are, though. After a coronadip, the number of asylum applications has been in the elevator for several months and there seems to be no change in the near future either. On the contrary, the latest figures from the CGVS show that 3.326 asylum applications were registered last month. Together with the figures for the last few months, this means an increase of as much as 15.5 % compared to 2019. What we're going through today is not a one-off fact. There is no longer an exceptional situation, this is a system crisis. After all, this country remains a top destination for illegal migrants from all over the world. Illegal migrants who are now completely abusing our asylum system, once set up with noble intentions. As others have already told you, you also go feverishly again in search of additional shelters and otherwise make some very non-binding announcements. However, the substance of the matter remains untouched. We are not in this country with a reception crisis, we are in a migration crisis. And I suspect that you too know that, Mr Mahdi, but you cannot say it because CD&V is the fifth wheel in this purple-green coalition. However, be aware that history will not judge you on the basis of your loyalty to left-wing coalition partners, but on the basis of your policy. That policy, Mr Mahdi, has three disastrous consequences at the moment. Firstly, real asylum seekers remain in the cold. After all, our asylum system has not been created to allow large groups of people from 7 000 kilometres away and from 'unsafe countries', as Mrs Platteau calls it, to come to Belgium massively. That's not what our system is for. Our asylum system is designed to enable people who really need our help in specific individual cases to receive assistance from the Belgians and the Belgian State in appropriate circumstances. That is what our system is for, and not to massively absorb tens of thousands of people from all over the world from so-called 'unsafe countries' in Belgium. Our system cannot do that and it ensures that real asylum seekers, who specifically need our help and who apparently could not apply for asylum in their region, are currently literally and figuratively in the cold. A second negative consequence is that there are many fake asylum seekers who make our country unsafe, both within asylum seekers' centres and outside. In the famous Afghanistan Commission, I have listed a whole list. I won't do that today. It could ruin the atmosphere. There are a lot of incidents that ordinary Flemings and Waals and also the staff of the services are confronted with. This results in the third disastrous consequence of your mispolicy: the working situation of the employees of the services has now become unworkable. That is probably why they will strike for the second time. That requires urgent action. How long do you think you'll need increased reception capacity? Is this a finite story? Do you hope to be able to phase it out soon, perhaps even permanently? What will you actually do except wait again, because it often comes down to that, waiting for the EU migration pact, EU visa sanctions to reduce the influx into that country? After all, it starts again and again, otherwise you keep mopping with the tap open. Unmistakably, a failed return policy results in a suction effect. What additional measures will you therefore take to ensure an effective and efficient return policy? What measures or proposals will you advocate at European level to stop illegal immigration into Europe? What measures will you take to stop secondary migration within Europe? For more specific questions, I hope that we will have time today or later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reception network is under effective pressure. The number of reception places available is limited. It is therefore not possible at present to accommodate all those who apply for international protection. There is no daily quota that we would impose, but the number of places available should be taken into account in order to be able to accommodate sufficient people. That number varies from day to day. All available places shall be filled in every day. Work is done 24 hours out of 24 to create available places. Everyone's trying to do this, and even more. In the Fedasil application centre and at the DVZ they do their best to register and receive as many people as possible, as well as in the other centers of Fedasil, where also beds are placed. There is, of course, a limit on this, and we have clearly achieved it. In the very short term, additional reception places will be opened, but today we are only struggling to bridge this period. Of course, no one's been served by this. For a few days now, anyone who signed up in the morning could still be registered that same day. It is unclear how many individuals are involved. Since people who are refused can stand in line again the next day, it is difficult to count them. The information point of the Dispatching service is indeed closed, but remains accessible by mail or telephone for those who have asked the question. There are several reasons for this, some of which have already been reported. The question about its specific impact has already been raised several times in the committee. I'd love to mention it again. Over 1,000 shelters have been lost as a result of the floods. Due to the need for isolation sites in reception centres in the context of the covid crisis, this concerns 1,200 places.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We can't risk using those isolation sites anymore. They need to be available in case there's an outbreak in a shelter. In addition, there is also the operation Red Kite, which concerns about 400 people and which has also provided an additional influx. And then there is also a general increase in the inflow. In view of the current situation in Afghanistan, there is still a partial decision-making stop for Afghan applications. That also has an impact on the outflow. Mr Francken, whether this means that we are next to a reception crisis with an asylum crisis depends on what will happen in the coming months. I don't know who made the comment anymore, but I think she's right. The perfect storm, as some call it, and Red Kite in Afghanistan, the situation there tout court, have an impact on the outflow. The floods and covid cause us to deal with a specific cocktail. It remains to be seen whether this will continue in the coming months. It will determine whether there is an effective asylum crisis or not. At least at the moment we have a challenge in terms of reception and we need to take the necessary measures. As of September 2021, 151 applications were registered on average per working day. As of January 2021, there were 69 applications registered on average per working day. There is therefore a net increase that can be seen. In September, the number of "Dublin" cases was estimated at between 40 and 45%. The influx in October is slightly lower than that in September, but remains high. So we need to prepare ourselves for a continued need for reception capacity to deal with it. I am talking about Dublin and the increase in the number of so-called Dubliners. As far as covid is concerned, given the health situation, it is important to maintain isolation places, as I said earlier. These places of isolation have the important merit of avoiding the outbreak of epidemics in the reception centres and can only be removed when the health situation permits. Mr Rigot, you rightly mentioned the importance of people getting vaccinated. Once this happens everywhere, it will also have a positive impact on migration issues and, above all, on the host network. I see that there are reception centres with very high rates of vaccination and others, where it is much less so. As long as the measures for all Belgians are what they are in terms of vaccination, we must continue to insist on vaccination campaigns to ensure that people are also vaccinated in our reception centres. When there is a significant difference between reception centres, it shows us that there is room for progress in several centres. I think it is important that we do what is necessary. I note that, in the meantime, the government, in a comprehensive manner, is making efforts to ensure greater vaccination among the population. There is good collaboration between the federal and regional governments. I think it's a good thing because, if we can guarantee that more and more people get vaccinated, we could really move forward and get back to normal as soon as possible. The combination of all these elements partly explains the current pressure on the reception network. In addition, of course, there are a number of people who have rightly mentioned some structural problems which cause the current situation to have such a large impact on the reception network. Migration is partly accompanied by a number of things that cannot always be predicted, such as the floods, the situation in Afghanistan and the evacuation exercise that has taken place. However, we must develop a system that is resistant and that can ensure that the right measures can be taken in the event of fluctuations. And so we need a buffer system. It has been said several times already, which is a system that ensures that one does not constantly have a yojo policy from on and off, but that one can quickly activate and deactivate a number of buffer places as soon as necessary. This is a philosophy that needs to be worked on and worked on. Among other things, Mr Rigot referred to the government's decision to allow a significant number of buffer points to ensure that the system makes us resistant to fluctuations that can occur spontaneously. In addition, this has already been mentioned a few times.... structural investments in staff are needed. If one wants to ensure a faster outflow, in addition to the correct influx on it, I will return later.They need enough capacity. The capacity of the services to deal with asylum applications more quickly has been limited for far too long. Effectively, it takes time to train and form newcomers, to reach the same level among the newcomers as with the newcomers. It takes effective time. We have made sure that this happens as soon as possible. Several questions have already been asked in the committee about recruitment campaigns, about whether they are interested, about how many people apply. Thousands of people apply. Thousands of people have applied and go through the Selor procedures. We also ensure that the potential staff of our asylum and migration services can take their exams more quickly, in order to ensure impact on the ground as soon as possible. This debate is taking place every year, and we must avoid it. Part of the answer is structural investment in personnel who make the necessary difference in the field. I went to the Netherlands a few months ago. Compare the staff that the Netherlands has and the capacity that there is in the Netherlands with the number of staff in Belgium and I don't need to draw a picture of the difference between our country and the Netherlands and what that means for the speed in the procedures. Sometimes it is useful to look at our neighbouring countries to see what impact the underinvestment has had in recent years. In order to meet the structural problems, a policy has already been set in motion. Fedasil has been authorised by the Council of Ministers not only to open additional shelters to ensure that no one stays in the cold, but also to work with the system of 5,400 buffer places that have to make a difference on the ground. These are places that are not used immediately, but that do need to be available to scale up if necessary. There was already a framework to have 1,500 buffers in hand. They were there last summer, too. However, this number is insufficient given the loss of places in the past summer due to the floods. The number of buffer places should therefore be higher. The framework for this has already been created. It's up to Fedasil to make the decision. Of course, the Agency needs time to do so. The distribution plan is provided for in the Royal Decree of 17 May 2016 laying down the criteria for a harmonious distribution between the municipalities of individual reception places for asylum seekers. Its implementation requires the adoption of a Royal Activation Order, which must be deliberated in the Council of Ministers. This distribution plan does not refer to the new concept of buffer places. The Agency is studying the possibility of using buffer places also in individual reception facilities. From 2018 until today, all buffer places were collective. I think it is again Mr Rigot who rightly mentioned frustration at the local level, which is very often present. Mr. Senesael, too. The fight is to be waged to ensure that every person can be welcomed to our reception centres. To this end, it is necessary to ensure that contact with the local level, which has been mistreated for years, is restored. If it is very easy and very fast to deconstruct, building takes time. It's unfortunate, but it's reality. We have to work on it, in Mouscron too. I'll come back later. It is important to keep in touch with the local government, to talk, to see what can be done on the ground. As far as individual reception facilities are concerned, we have had to realize that, given the policy which has created concern at the local level, and which has not reassured it, we start with 100 metres late in a 100-metre sprint and this complicates our lives. That is the reality; we must face it and work on it. There has also been investment in structural staff reinforcement of the asylum authorities. The recruitment operation is now in progress and should lead to the first appointments in the short term. We aim to strengthen the International Protection Department of the Foreign Affairs Office by 65 fte, 51 fte at the Commissioner-General and 44 fte for full court-martial at the RV. While these structural solutions are the only way to create sustainable stability for the reception network, effective time is needed for their implementation. So that doesn't solve the most acute problems. That is why Fedasil has been authorised by the Council of Ministers to open shelters and thus control capacity utilisation. No additional resources should be required for this, as the government has provided a buffer in the budget for volume effects in reception. The agency has activated buffer positions with different operators and at different locations, including in Oudergem, in Koksijde, in Florennes, in Morlanwelz, in Spa, in Hotton, in Bierset, and continue. The agency is in conversation with the Defense Department, with the Government of the Buildings, and with private real estate providers, to find locations and create capacity. The start-up of the reception centres will be carried out by the Agency and its structural partners. Fedasil and his partners are currently making every effort to achieve sufficient reception places, and I am also providing the maximum support for this. Despite several calls, there is no additional commitment at the local level at this time. As I have already said, I will continue to convince the local authorities of the importance of organising reception at local level. In this situation, a review of the hosting model is not appropriate. In addition, measures were taken to reduce inflow. For example, resettlement arrivals in the coming months will be limited to a dozen very urgent transfers. It seems only logical to me that the urgent transfers of people who need protection and cannot wait because of their profile should not be put on hold, but otherwise that is the case. After all, the available reception capacity must always be taken into account. There are times for resettlement and moments when it is essential to be realistic and take account of the situation on the ground. That moment seems to me to be more logical now than ever. I have also launched a distress campaign aimed at secondary migratory flows. I just said they were significant. They create an important additional pressure on the asylum and reception system and need to be addressed. That must be done in the long term. I regularly refer to the European Asylum and Migration Pact to find structural solutions, including with regard to the Reception Act, in order to prevent pressure from being placed on asylum seekers who have already applied in another country or even from people with M status, who are recognised as refugees in another country and yet still apply for asylum in Belgium, after which we are obliged to take them. Europe is providing structural solutions with the asylum and migration pact, but action must also be taken at the moment, hence the distress campaign. It is important to point out that the Dublin Regulation exists and must be implemented and that there is no point in moving if an asylum application has already been made somewhere. This puts pressure on the system and will not ensure that the dossier is dealt with in Belgium. Are cooperation agreements necessary? A cooperation agreement was concluded with the Netherlands and Luxembourg yesterday. I have seen reactions to this, including from the opposition. Look at the figures for the effective implementation of the Dublin Regulation in the Netherlands and Luxembourg. These are, of course, limited in relation to the total number of Dublin transfers to be made, but there is still room for improvement because in the last three years some 100 Dublin transfers have been made on the over 1,000 Dublin transfers that should have been made. It is therefore necessary for us to do so, but of course we will not be able to do so with the Netherlands and Luxembourg alone. However, I do not think it is appropriate to leave out the first partners with whom we can set a good example. It is important to me that we set a good example with the Netherlands and Luxembourg to show that it works. Secondly, we can look at the other neighbouring countries, particularly France and Germany, which are still much larger. We can then take the best practices we have developed with the Netherlands and Luxembourg and invite them to go along with it. This is how we expand the circle each time, but one has to start somewhere. It is often said that I should stop just looking at Europe. You're right. One has to start somewhere, where we know we can get results quickly. This has now been achieved with the Netherlands and Luxembourg. Let us build on this to make it clear to the other countries that the Dublin Regulation must be implemented and that it will improve everything and everyone on the ground as well. Because asylum seekers who go from one country to another to apply for asylum put pressure on the system in all possible countries. Going from one country to another, hoping to get another treatment elsewhere, does not benefit the asylum seeker either. So I think it is important that these cooperation agreements with the Netherlands and Luxembourg are in place and I am very pleased with that. Again, to paraphrase: will that be the miracle solution? No, but it's part of the solution. The same applies to Albania and the distress campaign launched there. Will that be the miracle solution? No, but one must be able to react quickly. If one notices an influx for one or two months from certain countries that we consider safe, one must be able to react quickly. That has happened in the past: Mr Francken did so, Mrs De Block did so, Mr Wathelet did so. If people in certain countries find that there are false ideas in the vein of 'in Belgium, people from Albania can be given international protection for the sake of living conditions in Albania', they must be given the right information. For that is not good for them either: leaving everything behind and sometimes even selling the few things they have, taking a trip to Brussels which will ultimately turn out to be a refusal. The reality is what it is, we have a very good cooperation with Albania on return, and the trouble in all this is the person who leaves on the basis of wrong information, arrives here and is eventually sent back. Because the return agreements with Albania are very good. So we need to inform people and set up the right information campaign. Is that also possible for other countries? Yeah, and we need to find out exactly which countries we're doing that with. I don't think it's right that we should have a panic campaign for Eritrea or Somalia. Those who need protection and want to flee for that reason cannot be discouraged from looking somewhere for a safe haven. But there are a lot of people here, and you all know those figures, who apply for asylum, and then it turns out that they don't need protection. We need to inform those people. Whether you call it an information campaign or a betrayal campaign, I do not want to engage in this semantic discussion. We have to make sure those people know what they're getting into, because we can prevent so much worse. It is therefore important to inform them, and it is certainly important to continue to look at the countries with which we do this and what resources we can use. We can use social media to bring information to certain target audiences as soon as possible. It is important to continue to work on this. In the past, the judge has been quite clear about denying shelter to people covered by the Dublin procedure. We have to take that into account. In the meantime, we need to continue working on the shelter law. However, if the judge has been clear in the past, he will remain so. The same applies to quotas. There is already enough clarity about what can and cannot be done. For example, in case of a quota of 50 people per day, the 51st, who needs protection, must wait until tomorrow. That is not the right approach to the problem. We must be able to distinguish between those who need protection and those who do not. We notice that there are a number of secondary migratory flows that we need to tackle. We also notice that there are a number of people coming to Belgium who do not really need protection and come from a safe third country. We must act against this. It is not my philosophy to introduce quotas blindly, which deprives people of reception facilities or not. In addition, there is even faster treatment of asylum applications. In order to promote outflow from the reception centres, the CGVS is doing everything possible to reduce the time limits in which decisions are taken. For example, asylum applications from applicants from safe countries of origin and subsequent applications are dealt with as a priority. These requests can be dealt with much more quickly, the answers can also be given much faster and this will help to speed up the outflow. Normally, they could outflow more quickly, either with a positive decision or with the order to leave the territory. As far as Mouscron is concerned, there is pressure on staff. I visited the reception centre and had the opportunity to speak with Fedasil's staff. I was able to feel that there was an important need to strengthen the workforce and to have the necessary leadership to ensure security in the field. The elements mentioned by the staff are important to me. I received an invitation from the mayor to see what concerns are on the ground. The centre of Mouscron welcomes a lot of residents, far too many. The government has always made it clear that the centres that accommodate more than 700 people do not correspond to its philosophy. We must respond to the current problem, but that is not the philosophy we want to adopt in the medium and long term. This does not help anyone, it creates frustrations on the ground with the local power, with the staff who do complicated work and with the residents of this large centre which does not allow a reception in the best circumstances. I am well aware of the current problems but also of what needs to be done in the short, medium and long term to ensure that this kind of situation is no longer achieved. But for now, we have to deal with the problems on the ground and respond to them with the capacity to ensure the quality of the reception. As far as unaccompanied minors are concerned, every NBMV in line in the morning is by definition vulnerable. Therefore, they are given priority in the shelter. There is cooperation with the Growing Agency and the Services de l'aide à la jeunesse for the care of very young children or young people with specific profiles. With regard to the strike in the Klein Kasteelje, Mrs Platteau rightly referred to two important components, on the one hand human resources and, on the other hand, the number of reception places. As far as hr is concerned, I've had a number of conversations with employees of the Klein Kastiltje. In the past year, I've been there six or seven times. It is important to feel about what lives in the Little Castle, also with the staff. Hopefully we all agree that the Little Castle was never meant to be used as a registration center. There's got to be another login center on another site. Important calls on this are ongoing, so that the login centre can do what it is intended to do. Notifications must be possible in the right conditions and the registration centre must be able to cope with the frequent fluctuations. Today, the Klein Kasteelje is on the one hand a registration centre, but on the other hand also a reception centre, because there are too few places. This raises the current problems. This needs structural work. Secondly, it is also necessary to ensure that staff are properly valued. An employee told me that he worked for Fedasil for 25 years in the Klein Kastiltje, and that sometimes, for years, he didn't know on Friday whether he would have to come back to work on Monday. Of course, asylum and migration always involve a number of jobs that need to be able to cope with fluctuations and be able to react dynamically to reality. However, there are also many structural jobs. People need to be seen here, so that the staff and experience on the ground are not lost. People who have been working with a structural job in a registration center for years with a temporary contract will one day decide to leave. That experience is lost. Something must be done about that. I have been very clear about this in my contacts with the trade union representatives, but also with the staff. For me, this is not the way to deal with people who are doing structural work on the ground. I'm as clear as I can be, you have to honor people, all the more so in this corona period. A lot of people could work telework, but these people couldn't. They have continued to work on site for the DVZ and Fedasil. Every day they had to be on site in difficult conditions. Those people need to be honored, and that's what the HR policy needs to be aimed at. I am therefore pleased that I have been able to give this clarity to the staff and that I can give it here in this committee, in all transparency. It is important that the staff realise that we have had to wait 35 years for valorisation, but that we are now on the same page and want to do something about it. It was also a question asked by Mr Rigot about staff and how it is valued. We work with temporary contracts for all. Temporary contracts will remain and will always be part of the Asylum and Migration chain, but it is important that those carrying out structural work can continue to do so. There is also the fact that everyone must be able to work under correct circumstances. It is also necessary to guarantee reception places for those who need them. Here too, we have specified that the work is done daily on the ground to ensure that not only will we have "tampons" places in the medium term, but in the short term a sufficient number of places will be guaranteed in our reception network. There were issues related to staffing. Mrs Daems, you asked if the staff had already been strengthened, after the actions taken. There are people joining us every week, including at the login center. I was in the Klein Kastiltje yesterday and there three new employees were working on their first week. The Agency responded by immediately contacting the trade union permanents. Several meetings were held with Fedasil on several occasions. The general manager of Fedasil and I visited the site several times; we listened to the collaborators and made a reinforcement of the staff at Petit-Château. It is also about managing overtime and days off. There is an action plan to relieve the teams that are particularly affected by the operation of the centre. The working conditions are thus also examined. There was also a question about a backup for the login center. I don't think that's necessary. In the short term, however, better coordination between the different services is needed to improve the flow of the login process. A backup of the registration centre is not necessary, but it is important to ensure that people can actually be taken care of. We look forward to another site, but that obviously takes time. Migration remains an international phenomenon and we continue to do the necessary things at European level. Much is needed to improve the migration pact and to create a European Asylum and Migration Pact. In the meantime, we must not sit still and ensure that we take the structural measures that have not been taken for far too long today. I apologise for speaking for so long, but it is simply a fact that a lot of structural measures have not been taken for a long time. That's why we have to take them today. I hope that this will prevent us from having to go through such problems every year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, if I had allowed you to speak for so long, it was mainly so that you would not be accused of being incomplete. That is what would be said if I interrupted you halfway. This means, of course, that I would now like to give the interpreters and the authors of the questions the necessary speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u13	Mr State Secretary, it is sometimes said that if you need so much time to explain things, that is a sign that you are in deep misery and that you may not be able to explain it all anymore. Personally, I'm shocked by what you said. You said that you had to speak for so long because structural measures will now finally be taken, which have not been taken for years. You've repeated it about 20 times. For the first time in 35 years of policy, Fedasil's staff will now be truly valorised. So you say. You said that the years of underinvestment in migration and asylum are the reason you are now in trouble. What arrogance! There were 35 years of underinvestment in staff. According to you, the staff hasn't been valued for 35 years. This means that your predecessors were all amateurs, both Mr Courard and Mrs Arena of the PS and Mr Wathelet of cdH and so on. Now that you're here, you're finally going to provide structural valorisation for the staff and services. Oh my god! There was a strike in your registration center twice in one week. I've never seen that before. In the biggest asylum crisis ever in 35 years, in particular in 2015, I have never experienced two strikes by the trade unions at the registration centre, which do not spare their words. That's what the lady from the PVDA quoted. Many promises, few deeds, that's basically what it's all about. I'm really shocked that you're so fluent about that, years of underinvestment. Mr Mahdi, hundreds of millions of euros, just for bed, bath and bread, that means 15 to 20 billion Belgian francs spent one year on asylum and migration. You dare to talk here about the years of underinvestment in asylum and migration. I really don't know what I'm hearing. Where does it stop? Your only answer is more staff. We'll see, you have strikes and an asylum crisis, not me. You can't deny it at all. You say that we should not talk about a daily quota, that it should not be called that. Every day, however, it is decided how many people are allowed in. I hear from Mrs Platteau that apparently families with children have to sleep on the street. You didn't say anything about this. Is that true? I thought it was just single men. However, this is claimed by a colleague from your own majority. It's a harsh verdict, please be more clear about this. You must show more courage, you must dare say that it is run out, that it can no longer be done. Work with a quota. You say it's illegal, but I did do it in 2015 and it passed the legal test. So it can be perfect. Also communicate that you're not doing it anymore, because you can't do it anymore. Of course, you cannot tell your coalition partners that you are working with a quota, otherwise it is too small. However, you must take structural measures, that is what you need. You must make sure that people understand that Belgium is less attractive, that Belgium is not the land of milk and honey. That is the problem. Accept family reunification legislation and set the deadline at three months. Make sure that there is a registration stop in the area of family reunification for subsidiary protected persons. Take the measures taken by Germany. You say that we can learn from the neighbouring countries, so do so. I only ask you to learn from what neighbouring countries have done in dealing with the asylum crisis in 2015 and 2016. Those measures, which your party opposed when I was Secretary of State, are still needed. One of the major structural attraction poles is that it is known that family reunification is easier in Belgium. We know that, and that is one of the factors that will ensure that Belgium is chosen as the country of arrival. You need to be much clearer in that, fight the Dublin investigation legally. Mrs. De Block had plenty of seats, but you are no longer affected by the crisis. You have a very strong new legal element to try. Show more courage in that sense. What you're doing now is getting it all over you and actually not changing anything structurally. However, that is necessary. Look at the neighbouring countries and do what they do. Come up with those bills and get us on the same page. I am not asking you to be stricter, just do exactly the same as the neighbouring countries, that's all I'm asking. Then the influx will already decrease. After all, we are still the drain of Europe. I do not think that the derailment campaign should focus on one country, in this case Eritrea, where you think people really need protection. A distress campaign is a general campaign that makes it clear that the shelter is particularly sober and that not everyone gets a house or apartment. The things people smugglers say must be abolished. You then say that that is terminology, derailment campaign or information campaign, quota or no quota. There can be endless discussions about what that is right. You certainly need to bet a lot more on detachment. Come up with that legislation, fight legally, including on refusing Dublin reception or multiple applications for reception. That's much more necessary and I don't hear that. I wish you every success in valorizing the staff for the first time in 35 years. I have no problem with that, you can throw hundreds of millions at it to hire extra staff. Measures can certainly be taken, but the staff alone is not blissful. The N-VA Group has tabled ten proposals and we will be asking for the vote on them in the coming weeks. According to the N-VA, these are matters that are really necessary to reverse this tide, so that the influx is mainly reduced. Then the shelter will be organized again and so will the outflow. The mayor of Spa has taken a mayor's decision to limit it to a maximum of 200 places, for a center of 300 places. In Spa you wanted to go to 450 to 550 places. So that's a serious line through the bill. Perhaps you can clarify what needs to be done with those 100 people who are now in total. Do they have a shelter tonight or do they have to sleep on the street? That news is just coming in. I filed a motion. In the meantime, you already do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u14	Mr President, I will try to be brief and to respond calmly. First of all, here, I feel like we've been in a cooking class from the beginning. We have a great cock chef who has been offering us a recipe with ten good ingredients since yesterday to get out of the crisis. I would like to say that, since you were somewhat titillating the PS a few moments ago. The crisis is, of course, the responsibility of the Secretary of State. It's your fault, Secretary of State, if we're in crisis. While in 2015, it was not the fault of the then Secretary of State but that of his predecessor. Something is a little special here. I'm going on. I didn't interrupt you earlier, Mr. Franken. I was told there was no personal fact. It's beautiful and so I'll stay very correct, but I'll intervene. You were then the great restorer, Mr. Franken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u15	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u16	I'm familiar with that whirlwind and I'm also hearing it from your party chairman. It doesn't add up. Anyway, it's Angela Merkel's fault.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u17	I said that Mr. Franken was, at the time, the great restorer. It has to be recognized that you had to put your ingredients in the soup at that time to make it take. What did you leave, Mr. Franken? You always hit the PS, I'll hit you too! Casseroles! The afbouw is you! The lack of flexibility is you! The loss of confidence in CPAS through the closure of ILAs is you! And today we have to rebuild everything: the climate, the confidence of the cities that lost it. We have to start over again because competent personnel have been laid off and we no longer have them. New sites need to be found while the bufferplaatsen option could have been taken. We didn't, sorry! The "tampons" seats have not been activated. Today is the recipe you may be proposing, but today you are not the cook. Another cook is the one who always proposes the recipe to one ingredient. I like this recipe very much. Basically, we close all the doors. I recall that a recipe with one ingredient... try! Just take some water to cook or just sugar,... It's inconvenient! Fortunately, here we have safeguards in relation to these revenues. What are they? The national and international legal frameworks that prevent this recipe from being intermingled with a single ingredient. So you have to stop selling it and make everyone believe that it's the miracle recipe because it can't exist! It's illegal! The cook today, Secretary of State, it's you. You have highlighted the prospects for the staff. It's essential. We need perspectives, because it is this staff who is willing and at the heart of the action and who, today, in his strike (I went to meet them and I have them on the phone every day, you know, I come from Fedasil, I know them well) communicates his ras-le-bol in relation to a situation that persists and his will to have prospects for the future. It's not a ras-le-bol to Fedasil, not, nor to the Secretary of State. It is to say at some point: when and how do we get out of it? They want a clear vision that must come from you and Fedasil's management. There is a need to re-create the bond of trust with the communes. It won't be easy. This is necessary because it is not possible to bring weight to the same communes, to the same provinces each time. In this weight, we must also see the consequences of the opening of centres; we must therefore create a climate of confidence and provide additional resources, and listen to the realities on the ground. There may be a need for bridge classes, schooling, strengthening of population services... This requires agreements with federated entities, additional resources from the federal government, your colleague from the interior... But in all cases, we must communicate, take account of reality and respond by means. I will note that you offer prospects for staff and that you have heard the message of "stability" of staff who want sustainable contracts. We have to tell them that we know that they are here, that we recognize their expertise that we want to keep. It's essential. You also answer the question of the future of the arrival centre. It's important. There are prospects. You are also responding to the necessary flexibility of the network in the future, which will be structural. She must be. We need to be able to open, close, decrease, increase. It is a reality, it is also migration today. I don't have the miracle recipe, even though I worked more than 20 years in the house, but what I know is that the best ingredient is Fedasil's staff. You can count on it. Use it, but hold it and put your hand on it. Take good care!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for this comprehensive answer. Unlike some colleagues, I do not think that the length of your answer means that you are embarrassed about a case. The bullet could be returned directly to the person who made the statement. It is often extremely long in its interventions. Is that to say that she would be in trouble when she asks her questions? It's a complicated file that means you can answer completely, as you did, because you don't hide behind a sentence or the other by saying we're going to close, open, restrict. It's not about this here! I have heard of your willingness to listen - I think it is the number one factor - not to talk about quotas and things that cannot be reconciled with our international commitments, to try to be flexible, adaptable to the situation that is changing from day to day, as we know. The staff had their time of grunt which, in my view, was necessary to recall all the tasks they had to perform and the significant workload that was generated by a whole series of situations such as covid, the larger arrival of asylum seekers, etc. We rely on your commitment to continue to listen to Fedasil staff, to be attentive to needs and not to adopt a restrictive posture but rather a posture of adaptability and listening to what is happening on the ground. I hope you can continue along this path. We will not fail to return regularly to this important issue, for which staff are an essential link in all procedures, on which we must be able to rely but which must be recognized at its fair value.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, my questions were mainly about the staff strike in the Klein Kastiltje. I've heard you say a lot of things. Mr Francken claims never to have experienced a strike. I don't know if his claim is true. The reason, however, is that the staff there is usually very motivated and driven. However, they are now at the end of their Latin and have entered into a strike. We are debating the reception crisis here in committee today, but they are currently on the ground and are looking into people who are asking for or applying for a solution. That's really not an easy assignment. I have heard you explain some good things. You're very busy with the recruitment campaign. You also intend to take measures to appreciate the staff of Fedasil. I have heard you say that you will do something about working conditions and temporary contracts, in order to make them more structural. That's good business. For those who are currently being refused and standing in line and about whom I have heard you say that emergency care is possible, it is not quite clear to me where they are currently receiving emergency care. Is it about homeless shelter in Brussels? This certainly does not seem to me to be the most appropriate reception for the majority of those involved, but, of course, it is an emergency. You have also explained the reasons for the reception crisis, such as the floods and the Red Kite operation. However, I would like to ask the following question. These are people we have selected through screening for evacuation and for whom we assume that they have a chance of international protection. Perhaps we should accommodate people who we know have a high chance of their asylum application being approved in a more small-scale reception so that they can relieve the burden of large reception places. It has already been a great deal about the buffer points provided for in the coalition agreement. The aim is to avoid such situations. It is very unfortunate that we have not been able to do so and that those places cannot be activated in time. However, it is not just about infrastructure and buildings. I am aware that it also requires a staffing and that this has not been achieved on one-two-three. Unfortunately, the staff is the victim of this at the moment. Maybe we could have foreseen that sooner. I'm very glad you want to invest structuralally in the staff. I have heard you say that there are problems with large-scale care and that you are not really in favour of it either. It is therefore also very difficult to open such care and to get the help of local authorities, who do not like to see such care coming because it involves all kinds of problems. Mr Francken has a motion of recommendation. He's gone. I would certainly like to read them, but I wonder, together with Mr Rigot, who also referred to them, whether they include cooperation with local authorities. After all, all political parties must appeal to their mayors, because at the moment we need all the help we can get to those places you are looking for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u20	Secretary of State, thank you for all your answers. Sometimes when it comes to politics, we are a little desperate for an hour and a half debate in which very few of our colleagues bring solutions. Fedasil's staff is exhausted. People are sleeping on the street. Asylum seekers are stressed, worried and tired. And in a commission, for an hour and a half, many prefer to show, to provide answers that actually have nothing to do with the questions asked. I do not see how family reunification has to do with the situation today at the Petit Château and the exhaustion of staff. I could quote other examples such as this one. It's too bad and harmful. There are solutions that we must be able to think about. Contacts have been made with the Defence. We'll be joining you on this one. It's not ideal. Large collective centres are not ideal, barracks are not ideal, especially as winter approaches, but it is an emergency solution. Trust with the municipalities has been broken in recent years. We have to rebuild it and it's very complicated. I know you're working on it, you're going to the field, you're meeting, and I encourage you to continue. It is certain that ILAs were a solution. Why is this no longer the case today? We must therefore be able to do what you do, listen to, dialogue and support associations on the ground. They know the local stakes. I know that they are sometimes taxed by some, in a rather stupid way, leftists. They are summed up in this, but in truth, regardless of their political position, they have knowledge of the people who seek asylum. On the other hand, one point makes me very worried. Maybe you can't say it, but I'm going to say it today. It is not possible to let mayors decide alone to reduce the places in the centres by 50%. If all the mayors, with all the respect I have for them, make tomorrow decisions like this, what will happen? In Mouscron, we don't want MENA anymore, in Spa we divide by two. I recognize the complicated situation in Spa, including for the local authorities. We're not gonna make it. We cannot add chaos to chaos, from crisis to crisis. It is a form of quota that we must denounce. We can't let that happen, even if we have to talk to these mayors, but we cannot continue to let them make decisions that have an impact on the entire structure of Fedasil, including on the staff who are already exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to nuance something. The number of notifications is about again at the pre-corona crisis level. There was no crisis at the time. So there's something completely different going on, which is that there's numbers. Now you're looking for shelter solutions, but you could have intervened months ago. Army barracks, among other things, would be deployed now, but that is not a sustainable solution, for the sake of clarity. We are asking for structural solutions, such as an increase in reception capacity and buffer sites integrated into existing permanent reception centres. This avoids a yo-yo policy, as is the case at present, whereby centres must be opened up and closed down every once in a while, and a lot of new staff must be trained who will be discarded after a few months. There is a need for more small-scale shelters. In addition, the individual reception that was completed by your predecessors needs to be rebuilt. Structural solutions are cheaper and will certainly benefit integration. I advise you to stop stalling. I've seen poignant situations this morning at the Klein Kastiltje. It's in everyone's best interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u22	Dear Secretary of State, I have asked you for structural measures. You have said that word a number of times in your answer, but I have actually heard little real structural measures, unfortunately. I have heard you talk about resettlement and about ten urgent evacuations that are still to be carried out. I wonder if you could create additional reception capacity at a time when there would be less pressure on it. Will you then carry out more evacuations, or not? Will you be carrying out any more resettlements, or not? I will probably have to come back to that in another question, sometime in the next few weeks, when it finally fits. You spoke of best practices. I like to use those words, too. There are many best practices in Europe that we should look at. The Benelux agreement is very nice, but I fear that its net effect will not be too great. It's a nice step, though. So let us follow up on this. If you are looking for best practices, please take a look at our neighbouring countries. Or look at Denmark. In our neighbouring countries, the European framework, which is already not super-wide, is at least completely exhausted to make matters such as family reunification more stringent. But Belgium refuses to do so. When it comes to creative measures to reduce influx, you can look at a lot of best practices in Denmark. With regard to the disastrous consequences of your policy, or malpractice, and in particular the insecurity both inside and outside the asylum centres, I just received a message from a member of the group that a new article was published ten minutes ago about another incident in Koksijde. The second in a week, again wounded, is another act of violence in the asylum centres. For example, every year there are dozens, hundreds of incidents of verbal and physical violence in our centers and beyond. You talk about more staff over and over again. That is all well and good in a crisis situation, for a temporary phenomenon. However, we know that this will not be temporary, because this is not a unique situation, this is not a temporary crisis, this is a system crisis, as I said. If you then plead for more staff over and over again, I am concerned that we will never be able to let it go because there are a lot of parties in your coalition that actually want more migration over and over again. A quota is not a miracle solution, because the crane remains open. They just put a bucket under it. That bucket also flows over and the water stays in your house. Quotas are not an option either. The only option is to finally limit the inflow, finally turn off the tap. For this we need structural measures, which I have included in my motion for a resolution. We are talking about a tightening up of family reunification for asylum seekers, the suspension of family reunification for subsidiary protection, the extension and intensification of the relief campaign, a real law on entry to residence, the temporary housing of families with children in adapted return units, visa sanctions, development aid linked to the willingness of states to take back their nationals, economic sanctions, alliances, etc. All structural measures that I have missed very much in your reply. There is often a reference to the mayors and to the solidarity that should exist. If the mayors wanted, we could catch all those people. That is all well and good when it comes to something exceptional and temporary. I am convinced that everyone, all Flemings, Walls, Brusselsers, from left to right, is prepared to accommodate people in an exceptional situation. Then few mayors would refuse to provide shelter. If people rely time and again on the solidarity of those same people, when they begin to see that it is not an exceptional situation but a system crisis that drags on for decades, then it is perfectly normal that these mayors say: up to here and no further, enough is enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic622x.u23	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Theo Francken and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Theo Francken and Mr Dries Van Langenhove and the reply of the State Secretary for Asylum and Migration, in charge of the National Lottery, attached to the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - in view of the asylum crisis currently facing the government; - having regard to the acute shortage of reception facilities, - having regard to the continued follow-up migration of refugees and subsidiaryly protected persons, - having regard to the Government's ongoing resettlement policy, - having regard to the granting of refugee status to persons fleeing their country for war purposes; - having regard to the failure to apply the temporary status of recognised refugee and, in the alternative, protected for the first five years following their recognition and in view of the possible change in the situation in the country of origin, - having regard to the asylum fraud committed by recognised refugees returning to the country of origin for vacation or family visits, - having regard to secondary migratory flows due to incorrect application of Dublin rules, - having regard to the continued refusal to force families with children to leave the territory; - having regard to the refusal to provide for collective reception only, - whereas the government has meanwhile launched a distress campaign in Albania, a safe country at least; - whereas the application for international protection to the Klein Kasteeltje for asylum quotas is being introduced in a modest manner; - whereas the Government will cooperate more closely with the Netherlands and Luxembourg in order to apply the Dublin rules more strictly; - whereas these measures are small steps in the right direction but will not slow down the asylum crisis; - whereas a comprehensive package of decisive measures is insisting on tackling the asylum crisis; asks the government - to halt illegal migration and to bring those concerned to safe reception places outside the EU; - to re-introduce asylum quotas; - suspend applications for family reunification of subsidiary protected persons for 24 months following Germany and operate with a maximum quota of approved applications per month; - to carry out broad and clear supply campaigns in all countries which have no or little chance of international protection; - to stop the resettlement programme as long as the asylum crisis persists; - make a clear distinction between those entitled to refugee status and those eligible for subsidiary protection status; - identify the countries in which the situation has improved so that residence linked to international protection is no longer necessary in Belgium and implement the policy on temporary protection status; - investigate asylum fraud and take action when it is established that recognised refugees and otherwise protected persons return to their country of origin for vacation and/or family visits; - to strengthen the approach to secondary migratory flows and to conclude agreements with countries which refuse to apply the Dublin Regulation to provide sober reception for Dublin cases; - ensure that families can be returned to closed return centres and increase the number of forced return places; - work on the Master Plan for Return Centres; - to provide for collective reception only because individual reception only complicates the subsequent possible return." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Theo Francken and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Theo Francken et Dries Van Langenhove and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for the National Lottery, Deputy to the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - in view of the asylum crisis facing the current government; - in view of the crucial lack of places to accommodate migrants; - in view of the continuous secondary migration of refugees and persons benefiting from subsidiary protection; - in view of the Government's ongoing resettlement policy; - having regard to the granting of refugee status to persons who leave their country to flee the war; - having regard to the non-application of the temporary status of recognized refugee and subsidiary protection during the first five years following recognition and in view of the possible development of the situation in the country of origin; - having regard to asylum frauds committed by recognized refugees returning to their country of origin to spend holidays or visit their families; - in view of the flows of secondary migration resulting from the incorrect application of the Dublin rules; - having regard to the refusal to continue the forced expulsion of families with children from the territory; - in view of the refusal to provide only for collective reception facilities; - Whereas the government has in the meantime launched a deterrent campaign in Albania, a country which, it should be pointed out, is certain; - Whereas quotas for applications for international protection at the Petit Château are introduced sparingly; Whereas the Government will cooperate more closely with the Netherlands and Luxembourg with a view to stricter application of the Dublin rules; - Whereas these measures are small steps in the right direction but will not help to stem the asylum crisis; - Whereas a series of decisive measures are needed to deal with the asylum crisis; asks the government - to put an end to illegal migration and to take the persons concerned to a safe place outside the EU; - to reintroduce asylum quotas; - suspend for 24 months applications for family reunification of persons receiving subsidiary protection, as in Germany, and comply with a maximum quota of approved applications per month; - to carry out wide-ranging clear deterrence campaigns in all countries whose nationals will have little or no chance of benefiting from international protection; - suspend the resettlement programme as long as the asylum crisis persists; - to draw a clear distinction between persons entitled to refugee status and those eligible for subsidiary protection status; - to carry out a verification in order to determine the countries where the situation has improved to the point where they no longer require a stay of their nationals in Belgium under international protection and to implement the policy on the temporary nature of the protection status; - investigate and take action in cases of asylum fraud where it is established that recognized refugees and persons enjoying subsidiary protection return to their country of origin for vacations and/or visits to their families; - to combat the flow of secondary migration more firmly and to conclude agreements with countries which refuse to apply the Dublin Regulation; to welcome the Dublin cases soberly; - to ensure that families can again be accommodated in closed return centres and to increase the number of reception places for forced returns; - to join the Masterplan return centres; - to provide only collective receptions if the individual reception only complicates possible repatriation." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Dries Van Langenhove and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Theo Francken and Mr Dries Van Langenhove and the reply of the State Secretary for Asylum and Migration, in charge of the National Lottery, attached to the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to the peak levels of asylum and increased illegal immigration; - having regard to the fact that this is not a single event and that the end is not yet in sight; - having regard to the fact that this asylum crisis follows an additional influx (in the context of family reunification); - having regard to the fact that Fedasil's staff went to strike for a second time in 10 days; - having regard to the fact that Belgium is making itself an attractive destination with a flexible family reunification policy; - having regard to the fact that the country of destination has become the preferred destination for unaccompanied minor asylum seekers and their number has increased even in the 2020 corona year; - having regard to the unmistakable effect of a failed return policy; asks the government - to strengthen the rules on family reunification for asylum seekers and to complete as much as possible the existing European framework in this area; - suspend family reunification for subsidiary protected persons and subsequently limit it to a strict quota; - to carry out a comparative European examination of the rules on unaccompanied minor asylum seekers and, if necessary, to tighten up the relevant Belgian rules; - suspend resettlement, at least as long as the asylum crisis continues; - to launch emergency campaigns in the top 10 countries of asylum seekers' origin directly through all possible channels, including not least the social media; - to work on a law on residences, as recently recommended by the Bossuyt Commission; - to enable families with children to be re-housed for as short a period as possible and in re-entry units adapted for that purpose; - finally and expedited the expansion of capacity in closed return centres; - to proceed with visa sanctions against third countries which clearly refuse to cooperate in the fight against illegal migration and the withdrawal of their deported nationals; - link the provision of development aid with the willingness of States to take back illegal and criminal nationals; - at European level, call for economic sanctions against these countries; - to seek alliances at European level with countries that advocate a strict migration policy and to play a leading role in strengthening policy in this area; - call at European level for (financial) support for the development of physical border barriers at the external borders of the European Union (as recently requested by 12 Member States); - at European level, call for a sustainable solution to the problem of illegal immigration and for the development of an improved European variant of the Australian approach." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Dries Van Langenhove and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Theo Francken et Dries Van Langenhove and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for the National Lottery, Deputy to the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - in view of the record statistics on asylum and increased illegal immigration; - in view of the fact that it is not a single fact and that the end is not yet in sight; - in view of the fact that an additional influx (in the context of family reunification) succeeds this asylum crisis; - in view of the fact that Fedasil's staff went on strike for the second time in ten days; - in view of the fact that Belgium has also become an attractive destination because of a flexible family reunification policy; - in view of the fact that this country has become the destination par excellence of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers and that their number has even increased in the course of the year Corona 2020; - in view of the fact that failure of the return policy undeniably induces an aspirational effect; asks the government - to tighten the rules on family reunification and to develop as much as possible the European framework; - suspend and limit the family reunification of beneficiaries of subsidiary protection to a strict quota; - to carry out a comparative European study on the regulation of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers and to tighten Belgian legislation on this subject if necessary; - suspend resettlement, at least as long as the asylum crisis persists; - to launch immediately, through all possible channels, in particular social networks, dissuasive campaigns in the ten main countries of origin of asylum seekers; - to work on a law on home visits, as recently recommended by the Bossuyt Commission; - to re-establish the possibility of housing families with children in suitable return units for as short a period as possible; - Lastly, to extend the capacity of closed return centres rapidly; - to use sanctions for the granting of visas against third countries which clearly refuse to cooperate in the fight against illegal migration and the repatriation of their expelled nationals; - to link the provision of development assistance to States to accept the readmission of illegal and criminal nationals; - to advocate at European level for the adoption of economic sanctions against the aforementioned countries; - to seek alliances with countries that favour a strict migration policy and to play a pioneering role in strengthening policy in this field at European level; - to advocate at European level for (financial) support for the establishment of physical barriers at the external borders of the European Union (as recently requested by 12 Member States); - to advocate for a lasting solution to the problem of illegal immigration and to start putting in place an improved European variant of the Australian approach at European level." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Jan Briers. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jan Briers. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The remaining questions were postponed to a next meeting.
