ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u1	Madam Minister, I would like to welcome you to our committee today to answer a whole series of questions and interplays. We shall begin with three topical debates, in particular a topical debate on COOVID-19, a topical debate on Zeebrugge and a topical debate on the problems in Zaventem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u2	Thank you very much for organising this actua debate on something that was very topical in the month of December, just before Christmas, although perhaps less today. However, the Minister has already given a lot of answers in the media. It is good to re-examine some of the questions in this committee and get a clear answer to them. I will limit the introduction, as there are a lot of questions on the agenda today. The police area that is considering using drones for checks should provide the Control Body on the police information (COC) with a DPIA before the start of a project to identify the privacy risks associated with data processing. Can the drones be used with heat camera if the COC has not yet given an answer? What is the result of the research carried out by the COC? How does the COC see this possible use in the corona pandemic evolve? Will you refine a circular on the use of cameras to protect the privacy of citizens in their homes and gardens in times of corona, but also later? Do you also believe that in the future we would rather not have Chinese situations where citizens get PVs on the basis of what is noticed in the margins of the public domain via a drone? Do you think it would be useful to provide additional information to local authorities, and in particular to the mayor, who ultimately directs the local police zones, on the legality of controls they would like to carry out with new techniques? How do you intend to do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, I come back to the complicated holiday season, with the covid situation and the very strict rules that were imposed. The law enforcement agencies had to increase the number of checks to verify compliance with these rules. As we know, it was very difficult for citizens to adapt and not be able to celebrate with their families as usual. Minister, my questions are very factual. What are the numbers of police checks carried out during the last two weeks of December, just before Christmas and New Year's Eve? Do you already have the number of minutes that have been prepared regarding non-compliance with curfew and health measures? Was there a real increase in lockdown parties during the holidays, compared to the other weeks of confinement? Much has been said about it in the press, but the latter does not necessarily always reflect reality. Do you have figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, my first question concerns denunciations, delations that turn out to be wrong. I am not going to read my written text again, I am going to stick to my questions. Minister, do you have any figures on these cases that turn out to be delations wrongly? Have you planned anything for people who are victims of abusive reporting? I hear mayors calling, in some communes, for delation. What do you think of that? Do you plan to put a little bit of order in relation to compliance with the covid rules and the denunciations that are made? I am very attached, Madam Minister, to freedoms, but also to respect for the rules. Unfortunately, over the past few weeks, we have seen that some of the police interventions carried out as part of the monitoring of compliance with the rules following denunciations have, to say the least, gone wrong. I'm sorry. I'd like you to come back to this topic. Minister, my second question concerns home visits in cases of flagrante delicto covid. How many home visits to detect violations of anti-covid measures have taken place? How can King's prosecutors assess the proportionality test? More specifically, what "serious clues" did the King's prosecutors consider sufficient to allow these home visits, especially during the holiday season? Finally, several citizens reported that the police forces, appearing in front of their homes, claimed to have been able to enter their homes without the permission of the King's prosecutor. What measures are you planning to put in place to prevent such behaviour by the police forces from happening again? As you will have noticed, my question is related to the previous one. I come to my third question, which, like that of my colleague, concerns the use of drones by the police to monitor compliance with the covid measures. Minister, it is of course in the best interest to find an appropriate balance between the functioning of the police and the protection of the citizen's privacy. Can you ensure that such a configuration does not happen again? What are the conditions surrounding the use of drones by the police, including in the context of the control of covid measures, as stated? Are there any legal provisions to come to surround, in a more precise and circumscribed way, the use of drones? While waiting for such a framework, should we not refrain from using it, in any case for the period of time that concerns us?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u5	Mr. President, Minister, on December 18, a police check at the home of a family in Waterloo went wrong. The extent of the respective responsibilities is not known at this stage. The record is well known: a police officer would have lost a tooth and a mother could keep sequelae for life. Of course, measures are needed, and compliance must be monitored. But here we see the consequences of a mainly repressive approach, based on the designation of culprits and punishment. This approach is antisocial and dangerous for citizens, police and democratic rights. Even in terms of efficiency, the repressive approach is questionable. In its latest report, Amnesty International stresses that repressive measures may undermine the effectiveness of the response to the epidemic. It recommends that repression be used only as a last resort, and that a voluntary approach be rather preferred. The NGO recalls that the exercise of police powers must be carried out in accordance with the principles of necessity and proportionality. The opinion of the police forces is no more positive. Thierry Belin of the SNPS union spoke out denouncing the ras-le-bol of the police. In particular, it criticizes the lack of staff and concludes that the measures cannot be enforced in these circumstances. He also fears for neighbourhood agents who will have to deal after confinement with social discord related to denunciations. At the PTB, we are defending another vision of the police, a vision where the community police has its place, and where the social role of the institution is strengthened, a police in connection with the population. Therefore, Minister, are you questioning the primarily repressive approach to the fight against the pandemic and especially to the measures applicable to home meetings? Do you not think that an approach based on the use of neighbourhood agents, particularly in the context of awareness-raising missions, would be preferable to the current approach? Have uniform guidelines been issued for home visits by the police? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u6	Mr President, first of all, allow me to ask the House services to excuse me because I still do not have a helmet, but that will be the case next time. I hope they hear me correctly. Madam Minister, last month you decided, on several occasions, to amend the police system once again to adapt it to the health measures in force. This time were concerned with lockdown parties, holiday returns and quarantine measures. If once again, fortunately, our police services have managed to adapt to these changes for the holidays, they again denounce the difficulties encountered and those that could crystallize in the future. Several police unions point out, inter alia, the lack of structural staffing, particularly with regard to the implementation by the police services of measures relating to the observance of quarantine. They had also requested, in this context, to transfer the check to the local administrative services by appointment of a delegated official. Their call remains unanswered today. In view of the shortage of staff, the obsolete nature of the recruitment system is once again denounced. You are obviously aware of the problem since you proposed, in your general policy note, the recruitment of 1600 agents per year from 2021 onwards. However, before you, Mr Jambon also proposed to increase the number of annual staff, without success. We must accept that the usual target audience of the police services has changed and that, without a renewal and upgrading of the police function, you will be unable to meet your commitment. Finally, the pressure on the police force has only increased this year and the unions are concerned today about the consequences for the mental health of the police. Minister, do you intend to respond to the call of the police unions regarding the transfer of control of quarantine measures to the home to the local administrative services? If so, is it possible to appoint delegated officials to carry out such a task? If I understand that no change in the level of the recruitment process can be envisaged, what will be your strategy to make the police function more attractive? How do you intend to implement your 1,600-a-year commitment in view of the failure of previous attempts? How do you intend to respond to possible waves of depression and burn-out in the police force in the coming weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u7	Minister, during the holiday season, the police had to intervene on a number of occasions regarding violations of health rules in private homes. Several of these interventions resulted in the deployment of large numbers, and even the use of force, sometimes in the presence of minors. Without going into the substance of the various files, can you tell me how many times the police have intervened in private homes because of violations of health regulations during the end-of-year leave period? In how many cases did they request the intervention of the King's prosecutor? In these interventions, how many cases did the officers have to resort to force? How many interventions have resulted in legal proceedings? Irrespective of these judicial actions and without prejudice to the circumstances which led to the use of force, what domestic measures have been taken to ensure the proportionality of the use which has been made of them? Have any interventions led to the initiation of internal investigations into the use of force? Have any complaints been filed with Committee P as a result of these interventions? On the other hand, the minister, other colleagues have referred to the use of drones. A legislative amendment by the Michel government introduced the possibility for the police to use cameras on board drones to carry out surveillance missions. In view of this provision, my group was able at the time to make a number of criticisms. There have been some voices to question the legal framework for the use of this provision with respect for the privacy of users. Have you read these critical opinions? Do you intend to take regulatory action to clarify the framework within which these instruments can be used? In the meantime, what are the instructions given to police forces equipped with such instruments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u8	Mr President, thank you for giving us the opportunity to join this not insignificant debate. Of course, my question is also part of this COOVID-19 fight, but it is not so much about the police. I would like to start with a quote from the Minister, a sentence which I find difficult to solve. I've had to mention him a few times. "I'm going to study for a hundred days first. You won't hear much of me." Fortunately for the Minister, this is not the private sector and apparently a minister can buy himself at that time. Now Minister Verlinden is Minister for 103 days, and yet MEPs, as well as the catering operators, local authorities, the small self-employed, the larger suppliers, the medical staff, our young people, our students and our pensioners, have to read in the Belgian Official Journal that it has been decided to extend the current unsustainable measures again for no less than six weeks. Read it in the Belgian Official Journal, as if it were a failure diverse. I can't call this any different. I have no doubt that there will be a justification for extending the deadline. We're not here yet. We are working on the vaccinations now, but the strategy needs to be further developed. That's not so much the point. Madam Secretary, do you really think this method of working is still serious? Can't you communicate with your citizens with a little more respect? That's what I'm charging myself for. With us in the congregation it was all hands on deck. The Belgian Official Journal appears. Find out what's going on. We have had to read there that we have to take these measures into account until 1 March 2021. I expect a completely different communication from a Home Secretary. This is not sustainable as far as I am concerned and I believe that it is very important for a large number of citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u9	Mr President, I would like to begin by addressing the point raised by Mr Metsu, which is a new element. I understand that what we are going through now is extremely difficult, that people are despondent and frustrated and feel impotent. I don't want to question that in any way. I also think that it is our responsibility as a board to answer that. That ministerial decision, published yesterday afternoon, came about after discussions in the Consultation Committee on Friday 8 January 2021. I am somewhat surprised that you are so indignant about this today. The colleague from your party, Prime Minister Jambon, is present on the Consultation Committee. And that is why it has been decided that the ministerial decision we are now aware of will be valid for six weeks. It has not been the intention at any time to be unclear about this or not to name it. What I have done is translate the texts of the discussions in the Conciliation Committee into a ministerial decision. This also happens after consultation within the entire government. So it's not a solo-smart initiative. Communication is a matter for everyone involved in the decision-making process. That is why I am afraid to contradict the fact that this is a lack of respect. That has not been the intention at any time. Moreover, we have used this six-week period much earlier. The many ministerial decisions were valid for about six weeks because of the stability that this creates, in particular, where appropriate because the crocus holiday falls within that period and that both the travel sector and the citizens who had plans would like to know the guidelines for the crocus holiday. That was also the reason for putting that deadline at six weeks. I hope you'll want to remember and bring that part of the story. This does not in any way prevent amendments from being made within that six-week period. We have done this in the past with entanglements, but this can also be done in the context of relaxation. The Consultation Committee of 22 January 2021 is therefore much more important than the date of 1 March 2021. After all, I dare say that before 1 March 2021 we will make further changes to the Ministerial Decision on the basis of an evaluation of the figures and expert advice. That is the whole story that needs to be taken into account in today's analysis. In any case, I would like you to note and remember that it is my absolute desire to offer everyone a perspective as quickly as possible, both in the social field and for a number of economic activities. However, we cannot do this in a careless way. We have to do this on the basis of figures. We have seen in our neighbouring countries that these figures can immediately and very quickly spread through the variant, which, of course, we must avoid. That is what I wanted to say in response to the first statement. Mr De Smet, with regard to the other interventions, it is important to distinguish between checks on compliance with the quarantine of residence offences in the context of lockdown parties. These controls fall exclusively within the competence of the police. In this regard, I would like to point out that police officers may enter a dwelling only with the authorization of the occupant or prosecutor. Quarantine enforcement is currently governed by regional legislation, allowing local authorities to carry out checks and select the officials required for that purpose. According to the information available to me, the police will not or will not be involved in this case and will only be the last link in the chain if all other control measures have proved inadequate. With regard to your second question, a new comprehensive and integrated human resources policy has been put in place. The main objectives of this new policy include shortening the length of the selection chain, promoting the attractiveness of the police and selecting more diverse staff. To achieve these objectives, computer-based testing will strengthen the evaluation of various criteria that were previously reviewed only in maintenance. The application of selections and recruitments in the administrations, which are planned to be put into service soon, will enable almost complete automation of the administrative process, from application to recruitment. A total of 28 new staff will be recruited in 2021 to strengthen the recruitment and selection service. All these measures will speed up the selection process in order to achieve the required target of 1,600 incorporated candidates. In addition, since the local police areas and the Federal Police Directorates will be able to recruit candidates before the start of the basic training, the selection board will no longer be organised by the Federal Police Recruitment and Selection Service but by the police zone or the federated entity. The Federal Police has a psychosocial support service called "Stress Team". The support provided by this service is psychological and ranges from receiving after an incident, to psychotherapy in the event of depression, burn-out, acute stress or trauma, for the staff member and his or her family, if necessary. In addition, some police areas have their own support service for their staff, such as psychologists or peer support teams, trained to assist colleagues. Finally, some provinces have front-line support services - including police officers - that can also provide psychosocial support. The external and internal occupational protection services available to each police area are also interlocutors with occupational doctors and prevention counsellors in situations of depression or burn-out, possibly related to work. Mrs Reuter, in accordance with the decisions of the last concertation committee, all police units intensified their controls during this year-end period, in general. During the period from Monday 22 December to Sunday 3 January included, a total of 8,412 violations of the measures taken in connection with the Corona crisis were recorded. These include: 3,257 recordings for non-compliance with the travel ban that includes curfew; 27 incidents concerning non-compliance with the organization of illegal festivals (lockdown parties) and 249 findings regarding non-compliance with the prohibition on participation in a lockdown party. A comparison with previous weeks is not possible since these facts were previously recorded as "prohibition of "gathering" or "non-compliance with the maximum number of participants". Participation in a lockdown party or its organisation is recorded in a specific category only since the measures relating to lockdown parties and the increase in associated fines have been strengthened. Mr Thiébaut and Mrs Chanson, as already mentioned in several replies in committee by my predecessor to the questions of Mrs Soors and Mr Senesael, I would point out that the data on intervention in private homes are not included in the database of the General National Data Bank (GNB). There are no data available on the number of admissions to homes. The General Inspectorate of the Police informed me that, during the Christmas period and the end of 2020, the IGA received two complaints from citizens. No complaints were received at the beginning of 2021. The police services must act with common sense and give priority to committed intervention and dialogue before entering a home. The finality of entering the place, as provided for in Article 27 of the Police Office Act, concerns the search of places to identify persons in danger or to detect the cause of the danger and, where appropriate, to evacuate persons, once the origin of the danger has been identified. Like any other provision which makes it possible to violate rights and freedoms, the article must be interpreted strictly and a residence may be admitted only with the consent of the resident or with the consent of the competent magistrate. The prior consent of the magistrate allows the need to safeguard both the rights and freedoms of citizens and the legal protection of policemen. This position was confirmed by the College of Attorneys General in the COL 6/2020. For the figures on the legal aspects, please refer to the Minister of Justice. Mrs Chanson, with regard to your questions concerning the King's attorney, I refer you to my colleague in the Department of Justice. Article 58 of the Law of 30 July 2018 on the protection of personal data obliges the controller to produce a data protection impact assessment, a DPIA, where processing is likely to pose a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. That DPIA shall be prepared prior to the processing of the personal data and shall include a description of the intended processing, an assessment of the risks to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects and the measures envisaged to mitigate those risks, as well as the precautionary measures, security measures and mechanisms put in place to protect the personal data. Moreover, the DPIA must be submitted to the competent supervisory authority, in this case the Supervisory Body, where the DPIA shows that the processing entails a high risk to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects. Since the GDPR, the supervisory authority has not only an advisory role, but is now a fully sanctioning body that can exercise all control powers fully. The supervisory authority's opinion on the DPIA shall be delivered only to the controller. With regard to the debate on drone deployment, I believe that new technologies can have an effective added value in enforcement, but of course they must always be used with thought and care. In addition to the legal framework and operational directives, proportionality and subsidiarity are essential principles. In my view, it is crucial for the public support of the measures in force and the success of the enforcement of the measures that the techniques employed are not considered disproportionate by the public and therefore do not exceed their objective. In my letter of 18 December to the Commissioner-General and the Chairman of the Permanent Committee of Local Police, I indicated with them that I would like to evaluate the current directives on drone deployment. If the need for training arises from the evaluation or following the preparation of the overall vision for drone deployment, also mentioned in the policy paper, I will certainly not fail to take initiatives to organise it in an appropriate manner. Following the investigation into the use of drones for the enforcement of the corona measures, the COC imposed a corrective measure, requiring the police area to take a number of additional measures, including a thorough investigation by the controller of the use as well as the legal basis for the use of the drones. I would like to remind you that the supervisory authorities on personal data protection are independent institutions set up in Parliament. It is therefore the Parliament which controls the operation of these institutions. Members of Parliament are also free to invite the members of these institutions to provide further explanations. The rules on the use of cameras by the police services were laid down in the Police Services Act 2018. These rules include obtaining approval in principle for the use of cameras and preparing an impact and risk assessment in terms of privacy protection. The Act describes the manner in which these cameras are used and the Committee on Information Controls is responsible for supervision. Mr. Boukili, the majority of citizens respect the measures imposed by the federal government to limit the spread of the covid-19 virus. However, the police are responsible for monitoring the implementation of these measures. The approach is not primarily repressive, but as in any rule of law, violators of the measures must be punished and the police response is proportional to the response of the violators and taking into account each particular context. Neighbourhood work, of course, remains a cornerstone of the police function. I confirm that the measures provided for in the current ministerial decree concern emergency measures to limit the spread of the covid-19 virus and are translated by the integrated police task force into a uniform operational directive for the whole territory. These directives are updated and/or supplemented based on the government's regulatory work. As mentioned, with regard to home visits, priority should be given to a negotiated intervention and dialogue. Mrs Chanson, I understand that the current health context is at the root of many binding rules for our citizens. The general rules and tasks relating to the actions of the police shall apply. If it appears from the findings that no wrongdoing has been committed, no minutes will be drawn up and this information will be recorded in the minutes. To the extent that this is a defamatory report, a police report may be drawn up with a view to this offence. The general rules apply here too. The underlying reasons and motivations will be the subject of the police investigation. The libel report can simply be an expression of a disturbed and pre-existing relationship and neighbourhood quarrels. This also concerns the treatment of victims by the police with possible referrals to local assistance when the situation leaves such psychological traces in psychosocial terms. A neighbourhood survey can provide additional information on the situation in the neighbourhood and the relationship between the people involved. In addition to any criminal regulations and civil regulations, in particular, a request for compensation and neighbourhood mediation may be made, whether or not preceded by an action conciliating neighbourhood works.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u10	Madam Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive answer. I also have a great deal of respect for the way you can do it all so quickly. That is very difficult for me as a Limburger. It was a very interesting piste or suggestion from you to organise a hearing on the subject in committee. After all, it is certainly important for us to learn more about the way in which all the relevant technologies work and about the regulatory framework that exists in this respect. That could be enriching for our committee. Nor am I in itself reluctant to accept new technologies, which can certainly play a role in law enforcement in the public domain. However, it is inevitable, as has also been shown in response to my question, that more than just the public domain is being filmed. For me, it is absolutely important that we should be able to see people's privacy as a basic right and that the use of images that do not cover the public domain and could indirectly violate people's privacy is fundamentally contrary to the image I have of a society. For me, that's a bridge too far. However, I understand from your reply that there is quite some regulation in this area. Mr President, I repeat that it would be very interesting to hold a hearing on the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u11	Mr Moyaers, we have a very busy agenda, but we keep the suggestion in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u12	Madam Minister, thank you for this information. I fully understand that the comparison with the period before the holidays is not possible, since the data were recorded under another name. Like you, I see that the majority of citizens respect the measures. I will not dwell on the substance of the cases referred to here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u13	Minister, thank you for all this information and your detailed answers. I agree with my colleague Moyaers on his proposal for a hearing, which I think is very interesting. It could no doubt help us to dig into this file and to answer a whole series of our questions. However, Mr President, as you have pointed out, our agenda is already very busy. I'm counting on you to find us a moment, and I know you'll do it very well. Minister, I have received very interesting information. I will not fail to question you again in the future if necessary. With regard to your colleague the Minister of Justice, my colleague Claire Hugon has already tabled questions this week that joined my colleagues in order to be able to support the answers and the elements that you provided me this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. The concern is, however, to preserve social cohesion. Our police officers already have staffing problems, I'm not teaching you. They find it difficult to carry out their basic missions. In addition, the task of controlling the covid measures, as has been said by the SNPS, is added. These are additional tasks, to be performed with a workforce that is already reduced at the base. As a result, the situation is explosive from the outset. Moreover, in the anxiety climate put in place, since there was talk of delations, all the ingredients are combined to form an explosive context. Therefore, a grip is necessary. In particular, we note that this logic of intervention and repression is not working. An alternative must be found in dialogue, and how to strengthen field officers and prevention officers to raise awareness, mobilize and gain voluntary support from the population. We see that, when it happens in confrontation, it does not work and it leads to rather dangerous situations. It is in order to avoid such situations that it would be good to take this in hand, to create a serene climate that will help to cope with this pandemic, which is not the case with the current climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u15	Minister, thank you for your full and clear answer, especially for the clarifications on recruitment procedures. We will follow this carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u16	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your responses. I am, however, a little surprised by the assertion that we have been unable to provide us with the number of entries that have been made in our homes. I find it a little odd that we cannot have that figure, as parliamentarians. I would like us to investigate that question. Anyway, I'll do it. For the rest, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u17	Madam Secretary, it is very clear, I say what I say and you will hear what you want to hear. My speech was not so much about the decision, but rather about the non-communication of our Minister for the Interior. I understand that it is much safer to quote so that you cannot misunderstand me. You said today that some people prefer sausage scenarios. Madam Secretary, we have been living in a sausage case scenario for a year. In the meantime, everyone knows the seriousness of this situation. As next blow, if it was a failure diverse, we read it and stoaming in the Belgian Official Journal, while everyone is already hanging on the ropes. From leaders we expect solutions, hope and perspective and no doomsday on page so much in very small print in the Belgian Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u18	Mr Metsu, I do not like the fact that if you quote me, you quote me only partially. It would be a pleasure for you to quote everything. I didn't mean to say people like sausage scenarios. It would be stupid to say something like that. All I have said is that there are motivational people asking for stability, and if we can make other decisions in the Conciliation Committee on 22 January, we can improve the situation. If you quote me, it would be a pleasure for you to quote me in full. I do not think that it has anything to do with the unwillingness to give hope and perspective today. So there too, if you paraphrase me, it would adorn you to do it correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u19	Madam Minister, I suggest that you have your press officer, who you undoubtedly have, in contact with the media, because it is in quotes. I'm not gonna play well-night. I read very clearly that you say that some people prefer a sausage case scenario. You speak, I think, for virologists. You speak for a very select company. I can speak, I think, for a much larger company, which is really hungry and needs a little hope, a little solutions, a perspective, and therefore not this form of non-communication, which, as far as I am concerned, is unworthy of a minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u20	Mr President, I wanted to apologize to the minister, because I have to be absent from the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u21	That's very kind of you, Mr. Boukili. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u22	Madam Minister, the problem of illegal immigrants in the Bruges region is well known to you, because you were visiting the port of Zeebrugge, together with Mr Mahdi. The fact that the issue of the Administrative Processing Centre is on the agenda today is no coincidence. It's not about a closed center like Steenokkerzeel. However, the press in Bruges gives the impression that the Bruges College of Ships is calling for a closed centre. I hope that Mr Pillen is listening. The population then thinks of a closed centre, a repatriation centre managed by DVZ, as in Steenokkerzeel, 127bis. That's not the question. The real question is an administrative handling centre for the police, for which you are competent. Madam Minister, can you explain the state of play regarding the creation of that administrative handling centre, which indeed many mayors in the region have been asking for for a long time? The real closed center is the Refuge in the Zandstraat in Bruges, which is empty. It is said that it could accommodate the administrative handling centre. It is said at the same time that it would be a closed centre, which it is not at all. There is a deliberate contamination of both terms to mislead the population. I hope you will clarify this a little, Madam Minister. You can refer to the range of action of the police areas concerned and the functionality of that administrative handling centre, but what is your personal opinion? Does the region no longer need a genuine repatriation centre, where displaced asylum seekers, alongside illegal immigrants, are housed, closed and guarded for repatriation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u23	Madam Minister, we cannot expect the problem of transmigration in and around Zeebrugge to be resolved in the near future. With the Brexit, of course, the problem of transmigration does not disappear. One of my colleagues in the Bruges City Council, where I am also active, Mr De Plancke, had sent an open letter to Mr Mahdi. He replied by e-mail that the creation of a processing centre is being investigated. The aim is noble, in particular I quote from the e-mail 'trying to do everything to reduce the pressure on the municipalities'. On 6 January 2021, I asked the Secretary of State about this in the Committee on Home Affairs, but to my surprise he referred me to you. He said that the Minister of the Interior is competent to reply to the issue and to take any steps to set up such a treatment centre. Madam Secretary, what progress has been made with the investigation into the arrival of a processing centre in Zeebrugge, Bruges or the region? What's the timing? Can you explain more about the purpose or tasks of such a treatment centre in order to avoid imminent confusion? What services are involved in the organisation of such a treatment centre and where would that centre be located? Is there a location for the center yet? Is that in existing infrastructure or are you planning new infrastructure for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u24	Madam Minister, we had asked this question first to Secretary of State Mahdi, but he referred us to you. Our question is mostly practical and comes to the attention of Mr Maaike De Vrese, who lives in the region and succeeds in the Flemish Parliament. Many cities and municipalities, including Blankenberge and Knokke-Heist, have been affected by transmigration. Will all police zones be able to use the same centre? How will you prevent exempt migrants in Bruges or surroundings from causing nuisance and re-trying to climb trucks?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u25	Mr Ravyts, I cannot, of course, be held responsible for the mixing of terms by the Bruges press. I'm sure you won't tell me that, and I'll leave you to it. It is important, however, ladies and gentlemen, to distinguish between the different concepts, an orientation centre, a closed centre and an administrative centre. I personally think that the term 'handling centre' is very unfortunate, even though it refers to the administrative part of the procedure. The term gives me a somewhat uncomfortable feeling and perhaps we should think about it. I shall confine myself in my reply to the purely police part of the activities of the centres mentioned above. The task of the police is to intercept and identify the alleged transmigrants, after which a decision of the Foreign Affairs Office is awaited. The police are asking for these decisions to be taken by DVZ as soon as possible, so that they can also be followed up as soon as possible. This is in the interests of both the alleged transmigrant or transmigrant and the police capacity deployed. I'll get back to you in a minute. Most of the transit migrants are intercepted in West Flanders, more specifically in Zeebrugge. In 2019, just under 35,000 transit migrants were intercepted in Belgium, of which more than 50% were in Zeebrugge and the immediate vicinity of Zeebrugge. This is mainly done by the Maritime Police in Zeebrugge, in close cooperation with local police and port authorities. The transmigrants in Zeebrugge are then all transferred to the administrative cell complex of the Shipping Police. There is an identification and a safety profile and the necessary sanitary facilities are also available, which is of course important, especially in this corona crisis. On 6 November I visited the Maritime Police in Zeebrugge and found that it was very professional and very well organized. The Maritime Police know very well how these activities are best dealt with. There is therefore no immediate need for an additional centre or an additional administrative centre for police tasks. In addition, federal police provide mobile support to local police in the interception of large groups of transmigrants. The intervention corps of West Flanders has been strengthened to this end in recent years. The police are mainly asking to shorten the current administrative procedure and the decision-making deadlines, especially because the same migrants are intercepted on a very regular basis. I will take that up with the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. In accordance with the recommendations in the recent report of the Bossuyt Committee, I will press for a thorough review of the procedure, with a view to a strong simplification of the process and, in particular, a rapid decision-making process. A closed centre, or a so-called orientation centre, can be part of the solution if an adequate response is to be given to police action. I will also continue to look at that element together with Mr Mahdi.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u26	Madam Secretary, I am pleased that you find the term treatment centre unhappy. For me, that goes beyond merely the formal. After all, it is important that this is not just a treatment centre, because we are not doing anything by purely administrative means. In the long term, these municipalities will hardly make any progress. At the time we warned about the case of Steenokkerzeel and that has finally become a story of push-through and revolving door politics. Choose a policy of tackling by dealing usefully with the smugglers who have come through the interception on the radar. I have therefore chosen explicitly, as the only one here, not to talk about a treatment centre but about a centre for transit migrants. There are stories from the past that have not even had time to read a mobile phone, information that is essential to roll up the networks. It doesn't sound very respectful, but those smugglers are your evidence against criminal networks. We must be able to eradicate these criminal networks with root and branch by tackling the smugglers. Information is needed for this and this presupposes meaningful police work. Senseful police work presupposes a multidisciplinary approach, including, for example, the Voogdij and other essential services. That bestaffining is essential to achieve results, otherwise it will become an example of what Mr Francken has called'somethingism'. We need a controlled and human approach, which I think is most efficient. In this way you will be able to roll up the networks better, I am sure. I wish you every success in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u27	Madam Minister, you are indeed not responsible for what your partymates say, but I am merely describing the reality. I live in Zuienkerke, a municipality with 2,800 inhabitants. At the end of August, the small landscaping of 16 houses where I live in the early hours was spooked by an attempted burglary in which my neighbor went into battle with a number of illegals. The neighborhood was on stilts and you may guess who these people are going to make an electoral contribution next time. I can fill out the name for you. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, we want a closed orientation centre. The infrastructure is there, because officially there is already a closed center located in Zandstraat 150 in Bruges, namely the Refuge. It's empty now. We don't want an administrative handling center, we want a closed center. I didn't invent the term, but it's true now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u28	I didn't invent the term either, but if we can agree on a happier term, that's very good to me. Language is very important, especially in this file. The most important thing, however, is for further action to be taken on the ground. I remember from the Minister's reply that there is still some work to be done. I remember from Mr Segers' reply that we need to deal with this work multidisciplinaryly. I look forward to the further action that will be taken on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u29	I'm still looking at the answer. The question was addressed to the competent State Secretary, who referred to the Minister for the Interior. The questions are also very specific about police zones, for example. Unfortunately, no reply has been received. In fact, the Minister of the Interior refers mostly back to the Secretary of State and minimizes the problem in her area. According to her, everything is running fine in the police field and the Secretary of State should, in fact, do everything necessary to tackle transmigration and, for example, reduce decision-making times. It is really umbrella policy when a Secretary of State refers to the Minister of the Interior, who in turn refers back to the Secretary of State. We already know from the policy paper of Secretary of State Mahdi that he offers very few tools to tackle migration issues and transmigration properly. We therefore have very little confidence in it. Fortunately, our group has put forward the necessary proposals, for example, Mr D'Haese has prepared a legislative proposal to make the climbing in, among other things, lorries criminal. I am also pleased that, despite the lack of initiative by the government, Parliament and the majority parties, they have nevertheless made the effort to copy and submit our own legislative proposal. We are pleased that we can serve as an inspiration to hopefully offer solutions to the problem. Hopefully we will soon be able to vote on the proposal. Then you shouldn't open your umbrella anymore and refer to each other. At least then there will be solutions in the area where the problem can really be tackled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u30	Minister, on Sunday, January 3, the federal police decided to carry out more thorough checks in Zaventem on persons returning from vacation. Unfortunately, these checks resulted in significant queues, as the purpose of the check was to verify that each vacationer had completed the passenger's location form. The problem is that a large influx of passengers was formed between 7 and 8 p.m. and that quickly the crowd was massed at the airport terminal. This allowed us to see surreal or even disturbing images. I suspect, Madam Minister, that this incident is not deliberate and that it is only the unfortunate consequence of a miscommunication by the federal police. Apparently, the police had not been informed of the simultaneous arrival of several aircraft. Still it is that this kind of incident is obviously not desirable and goes completely against all the efforts we have been making for months to fight the virus. Minister, as we approach carnival leave, which offers a new opportunity to travel – unless there is a ban – I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you assure us that this kind of event will no longer happen? To this end, has everyone's role been specified and better defined on the ground? What about the collaboration between the various actors on the ground and the relevant ministers? Will the police carrying out the co-vid checks at the airport be better informed of potential periods of traffic, so that they can better anticipate their checks?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u31	Madam Minister, first of all, best wishes to you! As my colleague pointed out, despite the government's recommendations, many travellers left the Territory during the end-of-year leave. On this occasion, images showed us a confused situation at Zaventem airport, especially on Sunday, January 3. In front of these incredible lines, the police services invoke a lack of organization. This is not the first time that Brussels Airport Company (LAC) has been caught in default. Let us remember that last March, at the time of the first confinement, the company claims that wearing the mask is not useful since it would have a shopping role leading to the aircraft rather than a role as a transport company. Fortunately, the Prime Minister had intervened, so LAC had to respect the rules of the game. At Toussaint, we see once again that the airport neglects the number of departures of travellers and does not open enough baggage control lines. This causes endless lines. This time, on January 3 and 4, the federal police were not informed of an influx of travellers. Few police control lines are open, which causes long queues of more than four hours, with people without masks. Minister, what are the actions taken by the airport police? What are the operational contacts between the police and the private operator of Brussels Airport? It would appear that the latter is reluctant to impose certain measures in line with the health requirements of the moment on the premises of the airport, which would lead to incidents. What about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u32	Do other Members wish to join?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u33	Madam Secretary, excuse me. I wanted to submit a question last Monday, but it stuck in the app. That is why I can understand it if you cannot answer my questions in detail. I would just like to make a few additional points. It is still not clear to me what the precise mission of the police was. I hear through trade unions that they were not supposed to systematically check everyone, but to check on a sample basis. Started at 10 %. At some point the order came to go to 80% control, until it was determined what kind of scenes this led to, perhaps in conjunction with other circumstances. Then the ports were opened again, which amounts to 0 %. I'd like to hear what the exact assignment of the police was. What do they do with people whose form has not been filled out? Are these just gonna get a gas ticket and that's the end of it? Or do they still have to fill it out? I also wonder if any thought has been given to the deployment of private security? What's the role of Saniport in this? If we look at Saniport's assignment, it's exactly this kind of thing. Then, for example, it would be a good idea to have people who have not completed the form fill this out together with Saniport, and to see whether or not these people pose a risk. Those were my questions about Zaventem. I have another question. How are controls carried out at other airports, international train stations and ports? Do you have any eyes on that? Does this go the same way? Have you had any problems there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u34	If no one else wishes to join, I give the floor to the Minister for her answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u35	Ms. Song, Mr. Rigot, the federal police confirm that cooperation and operational cooperation with LAC is very good. The contacts are permanent as well as coordination. In view of the request for additional checks for persons returning from abroad, the aviation police have set up an operational control system for intra-Schengen flights. To this end, reinforcements have been deployed. These checks shall be carried out in the Schengen area where, normally, there are no checks. Aircraft arrival timings are known in advance but unfortunately are not reliable. Flights can be late as early as possible. In order to analyse the situation properly, account must also be taken of the behaviour of travellers. Indeed, passengers are often in a hurry to leave the airport and tend to gather in front of checkpoints while there is a large space to respect social distances. That is precisely what happened this Sunday. At the January 5 meeting with the partners, under the auspices of my colleague from Mobility, no officials were appointed from LAC or the federal police. Everyone has come to the same conclusion: this isolated incident must be relativized over the four days, which lasted only fifteen to thirty minutes. All partners are well aware of the importance of respecting health measures. The solution was developed in consultation between LAC and the federal police. It provides for the provision of stewards by LAC upstream of the control device to guide passengers. In addition, a randomizer has been set up. It is an instrument that allows the application of random control systems by already distributing passengers, and can be adapted to passenger flows. The control table device has been moved to ensure more effective control. I also refer to the answer to the questions I provided to Parliament last week. Mrs Ingels, your question did not arrive until this morning. For a number of answers I may have to refer to the future. First of all, control. Everyone who came from outside the Schengen area was checked. We have done what we can to control as many people as possible who came from within the Schengen area. It is precisely for this reason that the meeting last week after the incident called for the establishment of the offices, the traffic jams and the queues to be adjusted so that as many people as possible could be checked. That is also exactly what was given to the police and BAC. Not only after 5 January, but also in the days before, there was intensive consultation with the Minister of Mobility and BAC to prepare these controls. Secondly, the PLF. People who have not filled in the PLF are indeed asked to fill in that PLF. A fine is also imposed because at that time there is a violation of the corona measures. Checks at other airports are carried out in a similar way. Of course, taking into account the agenda and the flight schedules, a similar operative act is made available, also in agreement with the airport operators. Then I come to your suggestion, if I may call it that, regarding Saniport and private security. I will not go into this in detail now, but as we will be confronted with this situation in the coming weeks, that seems to me to be something we can take further with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u36	I thank the Minister for the information that answers my questions. In view of the improvements and the arrangements it sets out for me, I think that we should no longer be aware of this situation, at least I hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u37	Minister, your answers show, and I am pleased, that collaboration is working between the public, the administration and the private operator. That's essential! At a time when the covid variant is knocking on our doors, we must do everything we can to encourage more caution. We need to anticipate in order to protect all our citizens. I have no doubt, as you mentioned in the previous replies, that the majority wants to be responsible and supportive, but in the face of a few who do not want to be responsible, there is a need for action. We must have a firm attitude and consult with your colleague from Mobility, between federal police and airport manager so that, if some do not want to hear, recreation stops! Carnival holidays are already coming and no one wants to relive this anxiety, cacophonic and frightening situation. I am counting on you, Madam Minister. Thank you for your positive and constructive responses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u38	Would you like to replicate any other members? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u39	I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that the Minister can stay with us until 5.15 p.m. So we shall see how far we will get with the series of questions. I can reassure everyone. The Minister has taken place in her agenda to come again next week to answer the other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u40	Mr President, Madam Minister, as part of the Federal Action Plan to Combat Gender and Domestic Violence following the Second Wave of the Covid-19, it is clear that curfew does not apply to victims of domestic violence. However, any person who is subject to a curfew check must justify his presence in public space. In the case of victims of domestic violence, this possibility of seeking assistance, despite curfew hours, implies clarification. Minister, how should victims of domestic violence justify their presence in public space during curfew hours? Should they prove their situation of violence? And if so, how? What about the victims who are experiencing situations of psychological violence? In this context, should specific information be provided to agents who may be required to carry out an inspection? That is my second question. With regard to police intervention and online assistance, the Federal Plan states: "If necessary, provide for rapid intervention by specialized services or the police to remove the perpetrator or if necessary to help a victim leave the home in the face of a violent partner". Minister, what are the criteria used by specialized services or the police to determine that rapid response is or is not necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to your question on the justifications of the victims for their displacement during the curfew, it is clear that leaving a situation of domestic violence is considered to be an essential displacement that cannot be postponed. Therefore, there is no specific evidence to be produced on such a move. The police will prepare a report for reported domestic violence. As far as the evidence is concerned, I would point out that the definition of domestic violence involves physical, psychological, sexual and economic violence. There is, therefore, no specific evidence to be produced when moving for this kind of reason. The situation will be the subject of a report. Integrated police personnel are informed through their hierarchy, newsletters and a computer platform that includes operational measures related to covid-19. Finally, the police services act under the authority of the competent king's prosecutor and carry out the tasks and duties assigned by his office. The situations in which contact with the magistrate is mandatory are listed in Circular COL 4/2006 concerning criminal policy on violence in the couple. Consequently, the temporary prohibition of residence is one of the measures that may be imposed by the magistrate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u42	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is assumed that this situation does not occur every hour or evening, but it is clear that your response will reassure field associations and people who are experiencing this kind of situation. In fact, if the situation is already extremely complicated when you leave the home and find yourself on the street, it poses even more problems if, in addition, you are arrested by the police and this is going wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u43	Mr President, may I interrupt you for a moment to inform you that I am having my further questions translated into written questions on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u44	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Segers' 55011973C and 55012015C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u45	Madam Minister, I tabled my question in early December and I have the impression that you have already answered it. In doubt, I will read it out, but if you have already answered it, do not hesitate to tell me! In Flanders, more and more private dog clubs are trying to create a place for themselves in the search for missing persons. This is essentially a subject dealt with by canine brigades in the public domain due to various factors: practical, legal and material obstacles. There are a total of 41 canine teams that are recognized and easy to deploy. Due to the quality of their training, it is currently not envisaged to extend the certification to private associations. So, minister, can you tell us your position on the cynophile brigades? Are their skills being developed in the field? Can you tell us more about the possible collaborations between the canine brigades and the police? What is the status of these cynophilic teams?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u46	Mrs Chanson, we have already dealt with this issue. But I would like to reiterate my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u47	Mr President, I will not ask the minister to repeat what she has already said to me. I had a doubt, but I'll go over the answer you gave me earlier and I'll file a new question, if necessary. I take note that you answered me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u48	Madam Minister, we are pleased that the vaccination strategy is getting under way. However, I would like to refer to reports by Europol and Interpol on crimes relating to vaccination. Among other things, it warns against risks of robbery on storage spaces and transports. Is a risk assessment carried out at national level by the police or other bodies on the safety of the various components of the distribution chain, in particular the storage in the hub or in the various vaccination centres, the transport, and possibly the buildings of Pfizer? The chief of police recently stood in front of the building at the centre of the media interest, so everyone knows that Pfizer's building is now located. Do you provide a physical protection of the hub, possibly in combination with camera surveillance? If so, is it police or private security? Are the transports being secured?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u49	Mrs Ingels, given the presence in Puurs of an important location for the production of vaccines and the involvement in the large-scale distribution of those vaccine doses, the Crisis Centre carried out a risk analysis of the Pfizer plant in Belgium. That analysis was carried out on the basis of the threat, both of a terrorist and of a criminal nature. The Crisis Centre also submitted a request to the FAGG to obtain a list of the production and storage sites of other vaccines in Belgium, as well as to the FPS Mobility and Transport to obtain data information on the transport of the vaccines. On the basis of the risk analysis and the information obtained, the Crisis Centre has taken the necessary security measures, which are updated on the basis of the available information. These measures are operationalised in close consultation with the police, especially the local police of these places. For obvious security reasons, the Crisis Centre shall not communicate the details of the measures, the services or the number of persons involved and responsible for their implementation. I can also confirm that in view of the importance of this matter which I personally attach to it, we are now writing to all local authorities where a vaccination centre or a storage centre is located, with clear guidelines on safety and the risk analysis to be carried out by the local police area, so that we can maintain a certain uniformity of risk control in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u50	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. This was all I needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u51	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, the job of firefighter is a vocation. For these men of fire who must help others in situations of extreme emergency, it is even a duty. We know that stress is an integral part of their daily lives and that is unfortunately not without risk to their health. In the long term, it would also appear that smoke inhalation has serious consequences. Thanks to new helmets specifically designed for this purpose, smoke no longer seems to reach the lungs directly. Nevertheless, it appears that defiled clothing would play a role in the development of cancers when they are removed. In 2016, our universities seized the issue. The result shows that the blood of the firefighters tested contains a high level of toxic substances. According to a study by the Inland FPS, the life expectancy of firefighters is 70 years. This figure is 10 years lower than the national average. However, there is a serious lack of scientific data and figures on our territory. Firefighters risk their lives every day. We must be able to move quickly on these issues. There is also evidence of scientific evidence to advance the recognition of occupational diseases. At the same time, during this period of health crisis, relief workers have been subjected to even greater stress. Minister, how can we explain that the life expectancy of our firemen is drastically shorter than the national average? Do you have more accurate statistics on this subject? If so, what concrete initiatives are planned to combat this situation? If not, could we take initiatives to get them? Have there been any correlations between firefighter intervention and the development of certain diseases, such as cancers or the incidence on the heart? Has a causal link already been demonstrated? Do you have any scientific studies on this subject? Do you consider the protections currently worn by firefighters to be sufficient during interventions? What are the established procedures for decontamination of worn clothing and PPE? Have they recently been evaluated? What concrete measures and initiatives do you intend to take in this regard? More generally, what measures are currently being considered within your department to improve the daily lives of our fire professionals in the short and medium term?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u52	Dear colleagues, a series of studies on the risk of disease in certain cancers related to the practice of firefighters, including the risks resulting from firefighting, are available on the Civil Safety website. In November 2019, the Federal Knowledge Centre for Civil Safety organized a symposium on awareness of the risks to the health of firefighters. One of the speakers at the symposium included the results of studies conducted in different countries that show that there is a greater occurrence of a number of cancers among firefighters. Reproducing this type of study in Belgium would be a waste of time and money because the results would remain the same. Before, during and after firefighting, firefighters inevitably come into contact with a wide variety of harmful substances in smoke and soot. Reducing the duration of environmental exposure through more targeted handling and maintenance of clothing and equipment is a means of avoiding the risk of contamination. In fact, I had contact with firefighters' unions this week and it was also discussed because it is obviously one of their concerns. That is why the KEC has developed and disseminated a directive containing a series of recommendations and good practices in this field. This directive is available on the Civil Security website. The SPF Emploi, Travail et Concertation sociale also mentions on its website recommendations in terms of the protection of firefighters, including the cleaning of their equipment. In addition, great attention is paid to this issue in the training of firefighters. Again this year, I plan to carry out a communication campaign aimed at emergency areas, which will include a component dedicated to the health of firefighters, including the risk of cancer. I would remind you that the emergency areas, in their capacity as employers, are obliged to take the necessary measures with regard to the health of their employees, the firefighters. Ms. Song, the Federal Market Centre for Civil Security Relief Areas has never opened a public procurement for the acquisition of vehicles specifically designed for the operational decontamination of firefighters. It opens public procurement only at the request of the zones. At present, the list of markets that the zones wish to open does not contain any requests for vehicles specifically designed for the operational decontamination of firefighters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u53	Minister, thank you for the answers you have already provided. Thank you for the consultation meeting you had with the unions. I can only encourage you to continue the work. I understand that, indeed, you confirm that there has been a greater occurrence of a number of cancers in firefighters, that there is a need to reduce the length of the equipment, that there are guidelines, that there are recommendations for cleaning, that a prevention campaign is planned, and that it is also the emergency areas that must deploy the means necessary to ensure the health safety of our firefighters. There are still two questions that remain open. I will come back to you and to the Minister of Health. When we point out the role of emergency areas - and I understand it - as employers, are the means necessary for the health security of our firefighters also provided for in the provision of emergency areas so that they can function optimally? It is still about the health of our firefighters, which is important. You are well aware of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u54	Madam Minister, thank you for your information. Like my colleague Mrs Taquin, I will not fail to ask you again about other aspects of this issue which I believe deserves a little more attention, particularly from the Minister of Health, whom I have already been able to question earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u55	Minister, since the beginning of the health crisis, many services have had to expose their agents to increased risks or unusually intense and busy missions. Among these services, there is no doubt that volunteer firefighters and ambulances, particularly exposed to the transport of sick people to the health-care facilities, can be classified with all that this also involves working in the disinfection of the equipment. Sector by sector, and depending on the levels of power, measures are taken to compensate for this overload of work and to provide a form of public recognition for the engagement of exposed workers. For example, the Walloon Region has planned to fund co-vid bonuses for workers in the Walloon health care sectors. In this context, it is up to me that, in the field, firefighters and ambulances feel ill-considered in the light of the efforts actually made for the benefit of the population. Therefore, Madam Minister, can you tell me whether social consultation is planned with organisations representing workers in the fire-ambulatory sector? Is there any value for effort and overload on the agenda in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u56	Minister, many firefighters and ambulances have e-mailed me about this situation. Last summer, I had already drawn your predecessor's attention to this issue. However, he could not provide me with a satisfactory answer. Therefore, I would like to ask you about this. In order not to repeat what my colleague has said, which has been used for contextualization, I will simply ask you the following questions. Minister, could you clarify the various statutes that may apply to firefighters and the possible obstacles that these statutes pose to the upgrading of the profession? Have you ever met with staff and unions for dialogue or are you planning such a meeting? Are you considering measures for firefighters and ambulances similar to those currently under review for the health care sector, so as to bring these different sectors together on an equal footing? Finally, the upgrading of this profession could also involve better coverage of occupational health insurance. In the inquiries I received, many ambulance firefighters confirmed to me that this insurance was complicated by the statutes, that some could not benefit from it, or at least that the coverage was not optimal or deemed sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to warmly thank the paramedics for the considerable and most important work they have done so far during the two waves of contamination of the population with coronavirus, particularly because of their unwavering investment in the transport of patients covid-19. As you may know, Mr Thiébaut, the government has released a budget of EUR 200 million to support staff in the healthcare sector. The government decided, on the proposal of the Minister of Health, to grant a premium to hospital staff. This premium is granted to persons who are taken from the payroll of a general hospital or a psychiatric hospital in the private or public sector and who worked from 1 September 2020 to 30 November 2020. At the meeting of Committee C in early December 2020, the request for upgrading of ambulance firefighters and paramedics in emergency areas was put on the table by fire union organisations. In fact, the operational personnel of the relief zones carrying out emergency medical assistance missions are not covered by the above-mentioned government premium. In addition to the granting of a specific Corona premium, if the question relates to the revalorisation of the status, it should be noted that the status of ambulance firefighters and that of paramedics is different. But it must also be borne in mind that the competence to change the status of non-fire ambulance workers belongs to the Ministers of the Interior and Public Health together. However, the latter is also requested by paramedics of private services. Ms. Song, there may be two categories of operational personnel in the emergency areas. First, firefighters, who may also be paramedics, are subject to the 2014 Royal Decrees on the administrative status of operational personnel in rescue zones, on the one hand, and Royal Decrees on the financial status of operational personnel in rescue zones, on the other. Second, ambulance workers who are not firefighters are subject to the Royal Decrees of 23 August 2014, on the one hand, on the financial status of non-fire ambulance workers in rescue zones and, on the other hand, on the administrative status of non-fire ambulance workers in rescue zones. The conclusions of the five years of application of this new Statute should be drawn. The requests of the various partners will be inventoried and we will consider possible improvements to this status. As I said, I had a meeting with the fire unions this Monday. This point was discussed on this occasion. These are matters for which I must speak with my colleague, the Minister of Health. Both professional and voluntary firefighters are subject to the occupational diseases regime. Recognition of an occupational disease is the responsibility of the Federal Occupational Hazards Agency (Fedris), which is accountable to the Minister of Public Health. I have also been asked a few questions about the recognition of cancer and corona as occupational diseases. These issues need to be discussed with my colleague from Public Health. They will be monitored in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u58	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As you have had contact with the trade union organizations, can you tell me if you have been asked for a co-vid bonus for ambulance staff and firefighters?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u59	This request was on the table and we discussed it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u60	What did you tell them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u61	I replied that I would rather invest structurally at the level of the police and other relief services than give a single premium. The debate is still ongoing, but this issue will certainly be followed up in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u62	Thank you for that clarification, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u63	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. I look forward to the continuation of the debate in the coming weeks and months, along with the other elements that you can provide. As you said, the debate is on the table. Some things are and will be discussed. I have no doubt that we will be able to discuss this together in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u64	Madam Minister, I was very pleased to read your policy statement on the Westakkers site in Sint-Niklaas, where a new Flemish training centre would be developed for the federal integrated police, specifically for the purpose of law enforcement training. That's a huge opportunity. I happen to know the site pretty well because I live not far from it. In the past, I have asked your predecessors, Mr Jambon and Mr De Crem, several times about this. As far as the N-VA is concerned, you can count on our full support for this dossier. At the local level in Sint-Niklaas we also support this dossier and I understand that you can also count on the support of those involved at provincial and Flemish level. I have some punctual questions to know exactly where we stand. I read that it is the intention of the Buildings Executive to purchase the infrastructure from the Defense Department. That purchase would have been completed by now, and that is good news. When have the necessary commitments been made? At what cost? A number of work will also be done to prepare the infrastructure for use as a training centre. Can you give me an overview of the steps to be taken, as well as the time frame and the work that will be carried out? What is the exact state of affairs? Who will carry out the works to make it a full training infrastructure for the site owner, the Government of the Buildings or the police? Where are we on delivering the necessary permits? After all, it is no longer a military infrastructure, it is becoming a civil infrastructure. Where is the consultation with Defence, with the federal police, with the city of Sint-Niklaas, with the province of East Flanders and with the Flemish government? What precise steps still need to be taken in the area of licences? I look forward to your positive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u65	Thank you, Mr Buysrogge, for your interesting question. As an East Fleming, I'm allowed to say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u66	Mr President, as a Belgian, you can of course say the same. Thank you, Mr Buysrogge, for your question and certainly for your explicit support in the dossier. The file was indeed thoroughly prepared by the federal police in collaboration with the police of East Flanders, the city of Sint-Niklaas and the Flemish Agency for Nature and Forest. For several local partners in the file it is also important that the empty position of the domain ends as soon as possible, that it can be put back into operation and therefore managed. The dossier will continue to work with different partners, including the academic world. In the meantime, the domain was sold by Defense to the Government of the Buildings for around 16 million euros. Alignment of the site to the needs of the integrated police will be phased out. Limited, rather, facility interventions will be required, which will be done in close consultation and cooperation with the Buildings Management. An important point of attention is currently the re-destination of the site. Without re-destination, the integrated police may use the site on the basis of an exemption decision for a maximum period of four periods of thirty consecutive days per calendar year. However, the ambition is perhaps more far-reaching. The limited use is not sufficient for the needs of the integrated police. That is why the province of East Flanders was asked to do what was necessary to enable a re-destination of the former military domain. The deputation of the province of East Flanders already gave its agreement in October 2020. The procedure may, of course, take some time. Pending the re-destination, the Flemish government can amend the exemption decision, so that the site can render maximum value for the training of our police services. The necessary constructive contacts have already been established between my cabinet and Mrs Demir's cabinet. A next step is to achieve good working arrangements. The police are ready to establish these working arrangements and will involve their own special units, the local police and the various partners. The objective is to put the site into operation in the spring of 2021 and start major exercises there, while the site will be further developed in the coming years. The project for its own suitable training location for our integrated police is a file that has been dragging on for years and that has finally become concrete with the purchase of the quarter of Westakkers. We therefore hope that, together with the Flemish Government, we will be able to land the dossier in the near future, so that we can take the training of our police forces to an even higher level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u67	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply and for the completeness of the information. The dossier offers many opportunities, initially for the federal police and the local police zones, which will be able to use the domain as a training centre. I also think I understand that it is the intention to build up additional infrastructure there over time. So there's a lot of potential. I would like to point out the unique environment of the site. It's a very wooded area. There may also be a possibility for soft road users to penetrate and access. In any case, I am very pleased that the purchase procedure has been completed by the Government of the Buildings. You can count on us when it comes to consulting with the Flemish government to obtain the necessary permits. I will knock on the right door with my partymate, Zuhal Demir, to ensure that the file can be properly developed and that a police site can be developed on that former military site.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u68	Mr. Chair, Minister, as part of the management of the Covid-19 crisis, it was agreed to Committee B to provide federal public service personnel with an intervention in travel expenses between home and normal work place, performed in a private vehicle. Your predecessor had suggested that the measure would apply to members of the integrated police force. In the 2021 budget discussions, you also indicated that, like your predecessor, you are of the opinion that a travel allowance should be granted to police personnel who committed themselves, in the first wave, to ensuring compliance with co-vid measures on the ground. In addition, the press release of the Council of Ministers of 4 December this year states: "The Council of Ministers has agreed to the intervention of the Federal Police in the costs of travelling residence and working place of certain members of its staff, in the context of the crisis of the coronavirus. Specifically, by analogy with what was planned for federal public servants during the first wave of the pandemic (18 March to 30 June 2020), the home-to-work allowance is extended to staff members, whether or not they benefit from free public transportation, who, during the first wave, had to travel to their workplace with their personal vehicle for reasons of service and at the request of their supervisor." Minister, the costs are greater for police areas that have confined their personnel than those that have not. As an illustration, for the Charleroi police zone, for the first wave, there are 288,000 euros and 800,000 euros for the full year, first and second waves. The decision to confine staff was based on the federal intervention. So, do you confirm that the federal government will reimburse police areas for the travel costs of police area personnel? If so, for what period? If not, what are the reasons? Some police areas have even subscribed a credit to cover travel expenses to their staff. How are police areas supposed to pay back their credit? Minister, I really expect a positive answer from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u69	Minister, my colleague Josy Arens has already been quite complete. I would just like to know whether this premium granted in the context of the covid crisis will continue. Are you going to fund this travel bonus, this payment for the police areas? Indeed, it may be a bit heavy for our police areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u70	Colleagues Arens and Thiébaut, as a result of the measures taken to combat the spread of the virus in the population and the need to ensure continuity of public service, an intervention in the costs of travelling between home and usual work place carried out in private vehicles was granted to federal public service employees. This was translated into Article 4 of the Royal Decree of 22 April 2020. This measure automatically applies to local and federal police personnel under an article bridge of the Police Statute. Staff members who were ordered to serve at their place of work during the period from 18 March 2020 to 30 June 2020 shall be covered. Compensation is therefore only provided for travel during the first wave, which significantly limits the costs associated with this measure. In addition, it applies only to staff members who have visited their places of work at the request of their supervisor. As a result, it generates less expenditure on employers who have used telework to the greatest extent possible. With regard to the payment of these allowances, the normal rule applies, which means that local and federal police employers have to pay these costs independently. This has not been decided otherwise at the level of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u71	Madam Minister, I am really disappointed with this answer because, if I understood you correctly, it is up to the police areas to finance a decision taken by another level of authority, which I cannot accept, especially since our communes, which are still the ones that support the police areas, already have to finance, often from their own budgets, a number of police officers in order to still have sufficient police officers on the ground. I really ask you to reconsider your position and take over this financial aspect from the federal budget rather than from the police zone budget. Thank you and I expect action from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u72	This should not become a habit and local governments should finance decisions taken at other levels of government each time. This is not the only case. I agree with my colleague: we must make an effort at this level, because I think you will have many reactions from the municipalists in such a context, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u73	Question No 55011803C by Mrs Mélissa Hanus is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u74	Madam Minister, on Wednesday 9 December 2020, we saw in the television programme Factcheckers how in 50 randomly chosen cities and municipalities in Flanders a portfolio of money but without an identity card was delivered to the window of a city administration or a police zone with the intention of having someone visit about a week later to pick up his supposed lost object. The results were not immediately reassuring. Almost everywhere they used a different way of receiving. In the end, in only 36 cases, the portfolio was returned to the police a week later. In one place, even part of the money at the police station itself disappeared. Is there a uniform protocol to be applied in our country when lost objects are brought into the police? In the reportage we often saw that the lost objects were only stored in a simple bin. Would it not be more unambiguous and safer if the same specific location were chosen in each zone, preferably a safe? Do you also believe that anyone who brings in a lost item to the police should be able to count on professional handling? The reportage didn't immediately put our police in a good light. Can and want to play a role in the roll-out of a better system for the surrender and succession of lost objects?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u75	Under the Law of 30 December 1975 on the property, found outside private property or placed on the public road for execution of expulsion orders, there is an obligation for anyone who finds outside the private property a property of which he does not know the owner and takes charge of it to give that property to the municipal administration without delay. The municipal authorities should keep the goods issued at the disposal of the owners for a period of six months. For bicycles the time limit is limited to three months. The municipal authorities must establish a register of the goods transferred to them. In the context of theft prevention and healing, local police can take on the declaration of lost property. This follows from the circular and the directives of 1 December 2006 to lighten and simplify some of the administrative tasks of the police. It is therefore an administrative task, which can of course be looked at how it is to be carried out now. Each police officer must respect the legal rules and internal procedures of the police area, including when dealing with lost property; in particular, he or she must also act with integrity. If it turns out that this is not the case, he or she may be subject to disciplinary investigation. There are therefore measures in place to ensure that the treatment of lost objects takes place in an organised manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u76	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer, but there is still a problem that has also been revealed in the television programme, namely that many lost objects brought in are simply not recovered by, among other things, the various storage methods. Of the reportage, I have mainly kept in mind that finders should be able to trust that what they bring in to the police will end up with the owner. Anyone who has lost something naturally wants to find it, and it is not possible to get back an object that has been stolen rather than a lost object that has been brought to the police. There's still some work to be done on a uniform system. The report also showed that the police areas where the reportage did not go well saw it as a learning moment, with which they wanted to get started. At the same time, it seems to me that it is an opportunity for us to set up an unambiguous system that replaces the practice whereby a lost object ends up in a random bin, after which it is not recovered a week later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u77	Mr President, thank you for your mercy. Estaimpuis has been disconnected from the internet for a few minutes! Madam Minister, on 16 July last the Court of Justice of the European Union, in its Schrems II judgment, invalidated the Privacy Shield, which provided for the transfer of personal data to the United States. The Court found that the latter did not provide sufficient effective judicial remedies to citizens and that the access of US security services to such data was disproportionate. This invalidation took effect directly, prohibiting any transfer of data to the United States. As we know, our public administrations can work in particular with companies that host and process personal data on US territory. This recent development must lead us to verify the protection and legality of data processed on behalf of our administrations by US companies, especially when it comes to sensitive data – whether they are health, police or judicial data. Minister, has an evaluation been carried out by the administrations and services concerned in the wake of the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union? Does our police work with a company that transfers data to the United States? If so, has it been terminated, in accordance with the judgment? Is there any reflection within the police on the protection of this data in these rising cybercrime times? Has the OCC, as the police data protection authority, taken any initiative in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u78	Mr Senesael, the police did not wait for this development. Since 2015, it has embarked on a digital transformation, in which rules on data protection and security are taken into account as soon as systems are designed by design. The entry into force of the GDPR in 2018 only reinforced this approach. The police use two types of system: the police information system and the police cloud. For the latter, it is a Microsoft environment including Office 365 that is used. From the outset, the police directives incorporated a policy on the use of information, which states that police information must remain under its control. Office 365 instruments have been introduced to make possible the new forms of administrative work in the police organization. Moreover, they have proved greatly their usefulness in setting up telework during the crisis of the covid. The police have entered into a single contract with Microsoft to control the data. Other cloud systems, in which data is not under police control, cannot be used. As a result, the police do not use systems for their official information systems whose data are transferred to the United States. In order to ensure technical certainty, the Directorate of Police Information and ICT Facilities, in collaboration with the Police Data Protection Officer and reinforced by the Schrems II framework, has taken various additional initiatives with Microsoft to ensure that the measures already taken benefit from optimum technical protection. These are innovative tests in Europe. This reflection is an integral part of the digital transformation of the police, which will only gradually strengthen this mechanism so that it can continue to benefit from state-of-the-art digital technologies. The Directorate of Police Information and ICT Resources is in constant contact with the Police Information Control Body (COC) through numerous files relating to digital renewal with a view to proper implementation. To this end, the police presented their new information security and privacy management system. In particular, this system serves as a basis for the analyses submitted to the COC. Particular attention was paid to Belgium's recent Schengen evaluation, Data Protection, at which the new concepts were presented to an expert forum of the European Commission and to data protection authorities in the Member States. Subsequently, the new ANPR camera shield was scanned. Police are currently auditing these new mobile applications. An evaluation is systematically planned by the COC. The COC recommended caution when using the cloud. However, the Belgian police have a strong and innovative approach that attracts the interest of foreign police services and private multinationals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u79	Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the proactivity and responsiveness of your services. I would also like to thank you for this precise, comprehensive and reassuring response, and finally to stress the quality and relevance of the safety management in light of the evidence you have presented to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u80	Mr President, Madam Minister, the many acts that have taken place in recent months against our police services require us, if not to rethink the organization of our police services, at least to think about initiatives that will enable them to improve and increase their effectiveness. One of the points of improvement that we believe should be raised concerns neighbourhood agents. Their role is decisive in establishing a healthy relationship of trust between citizens and police. Their presence on the ground and their contacts with the population enable the prevention and day-to-day management of social problems at the local level. Today, several problems relating to the status and organization of the function of neighbourhood agent can be highlighted. First, this function is increasingly linked to the imposition of sanctions (especially in cases of transgression of health measures), which tends to keep neighbourhood workers away from their initial mission, committed to prevention and security. Secondly, the KUL standard, which determines the number of agents present per zone (i.e. one outreach agent per 4,000 inhabitants), does not favour an increased presence throughout the territory. Let us add that this standard does not consider the distinction between rural and urban areas! Minister, the tasks associated with the imposition of sanctions for neighbourhood officers seem to be moving them away from their fundamental mission of prevention and security. Can we have you back on this issue? The symbolic and pecuniary valuation of this function remains problematic in some police forces, what promotion or upgrading measures do you intend to put in place around this essential function of police work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u81	Minister, we have already been able to discuss briefly the issue of the function and upgrading of neighbourhood officers in police areas when presenting your policy brief. In view of some elements, I found it important to re-ask a question on this day about the disinterest of this neighbourhood officer function within our police. I will not repeat what my colleague Senesael said. He considered a very broad context and was very succinct in his explanation, so I will simply stick to my questions. I'd like you to remind us what you're considering for this function and how you're planning to upgrade it in the field. I think it is also important to reflect on the reasons why our police candidates are not interested in this function, which is often seen as a secondary function in a police career. If so, do you have any conclusions on this reflection or do you have any explanations? I thank you in advance for your answers while apologizing for this intrusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u82	Thank you, Mr. Senesael and Mrs. Song. Mr Senesael, a police organisation that is as close as possible to citizens and local authorities is one of my priorities. This reorganisation requires additional budgets. Therefore, a structural and gradual increase in the police budget has been incorporated into the multi-year budget. Thus, in 2021, an additional €50 million will be allocated to the police as a priority for the recruitment of 1,600 aspirants. To reach this figure, a recruitment campaign will be carried out and measures will be taken to ensure that the police become an attractive and modern employer. These measures include the search for a better balance between work and private life, and the granting of a certain degree of autonomy and self-management to staff members. Greater respect for the police is also needed to make the police profession more attractive. This massive commitment is necessary in order to deploy more police officers on the ground; the police must reach out to the population as this helps to determine their needs and expectations, but also the root causes of the phenomenon of insecurity. A very decentralized police operation that is close to the citizen is essential to me. To achieve this, the following measures will be put in place. There will be an assessment of the citizen's satisfaction with the proximity of the police, initiatives that will make the function of the neighbourhood inspector more attractive and that will help strengthen the relationship between the police and the citizen. These initiatives include the deployment of full-fledged neighbourhood teams, appropriate training, increased accessibility through social networks and the deployment of volunteers within the police, and a strong partnership with local governments. Finally, an assessment of the implementation of the ministerial circular on the administrative tasks of the police will be put in place. Ms. Song, indeed, the function of a neighbourhood agent is essential. However, the basic training of police officers is intended to train general practitioners. It is therefore not unusual to find that, at the beginning of a career, many newly trained inspectors turn to the basic function which, par excellence, corresponds to the teaching received. The Royal Decree of 2021 laying down the rules for the organization and operation of the local police in order to provide a minimum service equivalent to the population provides that one neighbourhood officer per 4,000 inhabitants is required. It is up to the areas to respect this. It may also be noted that ownership of the required patent is not required to be designated or reassigned to such employment. I believe in community policing and I want to work towards greater citizen participation in security policy. Citizen participation in society contributes positively to a sense of security in its own environment. I want to give impetus to various forms of participation and learn from the good examples in the field of citizen control: aid for detection, neighbourhood meditation or citizen participation in political decision-making.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u83	Thank you very much, minister, for the quality of your answer and especially the elements that you bring that I particularly appreciate. Your whole answer is interesting. But for my part, I will retain four essential elements for which you trust the local police with different impulses that you have detailed: respect for the police; more police officers on the ground; police officers closer to the citizens; and a strong partnership with local administrations. These are the essential elements in my view for the police to be even more effective, to meet the citizen control you have mentioned, and the various measures and initiatives you will take will be, in a meaningful way, interesting to achieve the objectives you have set yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u84	I thank the Minister for her response. I also thank her for her interest, on the one hand, in this function and, on the other, in the link between the police and the citizens. I know that the various elements you set out at each oral question-and-answer session show us how much you want to strengthen this link and how important it is to you. I have already told you that I will support you in implementing this policy simply because I think it is the right path. The unfortunate events that have taken place in recent weeks show that the link is broken or partially in some police areas. We must strengthen this proximity to the citizen. I count on you to implement these impulses and information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u85	Mr Metsu, it has been known for some time that I have expressed the intention in my policy paper to pursue a more effective and extended application of the ban on places. The approach to nuisances in recreational areas and outdoor swimming pools is a priority item on my agenda, also in view of the scenes that we saw in the summer of 2019. The aim is to achieve an integrated approach to the issue with a strengthened and decisive administrative enforcement toolbox. A system of place bans with extended territorial jurisdiction can only be the final piece of an integrated approach to the problem of nuisance, but it is an important and necessary piece of puzzles. Within my administration, at the end of last year, a working group was set up with academics, domain managers, representatives of the police, provincial governors, the Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities, the parquet, the FPS Justice and the regions. The following items are on the working group's agenda. Firstly, an update is on the table of the 2006 circular on nuisances in recreational areas, with possible extension to other recreational places such as beaches. The letter sets out the contours of an integrated approach and still has its merit, but after fifteen years it is subject to a number of revision. In this context, a survey on recreational domains was launched at the end of 2020. This survey examines, among other things, specific types of nuisance experienced by recreational areas, the trend of nuisance in recent years, as well as the measures already taken and, finally, additional measures they consider necessary to combat nuisance. The response to that survey was particularly high. A second item on the working group's agenda is the evaluation of the enforcement possibilities available today to local authorities in the fight against nuisance. The federal government has granted the mayors security prerogatives and enforcement possibilities, including by applying the law on municipal administrative sanctions, the possibility of temporarily prohibiting the place locally and the subsidy of the employment of prevention officers, but also by determining the prerogatives of the community guards, facilitating the deployment of surveillance agents and finally an appropriate approach to managing the safety of recreational areas. The aim is to refine the legal framework with a view to strengthening the administrative enforcement tools. In this context, the extension of the existing system of place bans will also be addressed, as requested in the resolution referred to in the questions. My objective is to have, before the start of the tourist season, which hopefully can go to normal standards in 2021, an updated letter to the Council of Ministers and to submit a preliminary draft law to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u86	That is a very good answer, Madam Secretary. We welcome the fact that we are also being kept informed in this way of the further resolution we have tabled on the extension of the ban on places, including in recreational centres. I wish you every success. If necessary, you will be able to benefit from our support for this. We hope that by the summer everything will be normalized and that we will again be able to enjoy the recreational areas in the most safe way possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u87	I would also like to express my satisfaction, Madam Minister, first and foremost because you want it organized by the summer. I am convinced that we will get the vaccinations done and that we will succeed. With your examples you clearly mentioned the beaches, because after the scenes in Blankenberge and in other places it must be clear that violence does not fit on the beach. Only the hardest means are good to avoid violence there. You have my support. I'm glad. I believe that we will be able to agree with this in a broad sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u88	Mr President, Mr Metsu, I would like to assure you and reaffirm that the implementation of the recommendations of the parliamentary follow-up committee 'Terrorist attacks' is a priority, but that a great deal of work has already been done by the follow-up committee and my predecessors to actually implement those recommendations. It would be useful to see if there are any outstanding issues that are not included in the coalition agreement. On this basis, an analysis can be made as to whether such a follow-up committee is the most efficient means of implementing such recommendations. Of course, I am open to a debate on this and I fully cooperate with everything necessary to ensure the correct, rapid and adequate follow-up of the recommendations of that follow-up committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u89	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I've heard your call clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u90	Mr President, Mr Metsu, all the history of an attack and the following events will be investigated, dealt with and/or followed up within the tasks of the judicial and administrative police. In the event of a criminal investigation, these elements will of course be examined where relevant and in accordance with the orders of the magistrate. Both concepts, early detection and risk assessment, are still crucial in our strategy and the fight against extremism and terrorism. As one of the partners in the security chain, the police is also focusing on early intervention in possible radicalisation processes, including using risk assessment tools. Here too, the police are one of the, but not the only, possible partners. The strategy of counter-narratives transcends the GPI. Among other things, the OCAD is of course also involved and can already identify a number of risks with its analyses. The Local Integral Safety Cells on Radicalism have as their central objective the early detection of persons who are in a radicalisation process or who are suspected to be in it. The functioning of the LIVC-R contributes to the reintegration into the society of those persons and makes an early assessment of those persons as complete as possible. Subsequently, the LIVC-R can develop a case-specific disciplinary follow-up path to prevent the person concerned from slipping further and to ensure that the risk based on that person is reduced and reduced as far as possible. Risk assessment is also included in the strategic approach to extremism and terrorism. In fact, the cyclic process of risk management, of which risk assessment is part, is the overarching philosophy behind that strategy. Risk management, based on three major steps, involves detection, risk assessment and risk reduction. First of all, the basic idea behind this is that information and information about an individual is collected from a multidisciplinary group of partners: that is the detection. The evaluation will then be carried out. By putting together all those puzzle pieces of information, an estimate of the risk can be made. Finally, on the basis of the assessment, risk reduction for each specific case may determine the measures to be taken at any level to reduce the risk on the basis of the person concerned. Following the imposition of these measures, information needs to be re-collected, a new valuation initiated and the cyclic process of risk management restarted, in order to be very close to the skin of those risks. Throughout this process, it is crucial to focus on connecting alternatives and positive messages, not from large-scale government campaigns, but by supporting local organisations and associations in that area, who know and reach the desired target audience and who have already built up a certain credibility in that target audience. A campaign stands or falls with the definition of the right target audience and with the use of so-called credible voices for this target audience. A campaign is therefore never an isolated initiative, but needs to be looked at as a whole of the initiatives and activities. The talks between the Regions and the federal government in preparation for this cooperation agreement will begin early this year. Depending on the speed with which this takes place and the approval of all parties, the cooperation agreement will enter into force. In order to further improve and optimise OCAD services, it is essential that the OCAD has sufficient budgetary resources and staff. A significant effort has therefore been made in recent years to increase the number of OCAD staff. Since May 2018, the OCAD has a flexible staffing framework to make it easier to meet its needs. It is important to note that the workload of the OCAD has recently increased significantly by adding two new categories to the GGB. In the short term, the necessary budgets will have to be allocated so that the OCAD can start recruiting two level A staff as soon as possible in order to ensure better quality control of the Common Database. In view of the current workload and in order to ensure optimal follow-up, it will then be necessary to obtain the necessary appropriations to enable the recruitment of three additional file managers of levels B or C in the medium term. In the longer term, the position of the OCAD in the field of analysis will also need to be strengthened by the recruitment of four additional analysts. These are all things that are already being prepared today to ensure the best possible functioning and results of the OCAD.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u91	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer, which was very complete. I can get on with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u92	The reason for my question was the news from Flemish Minister, Mrs Peeters, on 19 new route checks in Flanders. Everyone who read the news was undoubtedly immediately thinking of the many route checks that are not working today or which certainly do not lead to fines. The ANPR Management System under the control of the federal police would not yet work properly. The deadlines in May 2018 and at the end of 2020 were not met.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u93	The route checks were launched as the first functionality at the end of November 2020 at the AMS, the ANPR Management System. All route checks are operational from that point of view. An initial route check on the Tournaissensteenweg in Bellegem is active at AMS. The regional processing centre (GVC) in Ghent reduces the infringements found there. This proof of concept was determined in consultation with the Cabinets of Justice and Home Affairs, but also with the Police Zone VLAS, the Flemish Region and the Federal Police. The aim is to gradually add cameras, users and functionalities to the AMS. A number of conditions have to be met first, such as connecting both the ANPR camera at the beginning and the ANPR camera at the end of the journey, in order to ensure that all observed infringements can be rectified by means of a route check. These cameras must have the model approval and the installation itself must be calibrated in good time. The necessary protocols must be signed by all partners and the necessary arrangements must be made with all parties, such as the administrative police and the public prosecutors. In order to deal with the infringements identified, it is essential that there is sufficient human resources at the regional processing centres and at the parquets. Initiatives have already been taken to strengthen the CFCs on staff. Among other things, I discussed this with Mrs Peeters last week. In this way, we can ensure that it is all effective and operational as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u94	Madam Secretary, I hear there's still a lot of work to be done. There are several protocols that should lead to different concrete agreements with many different actors. I think that's something that won't be ready tomorrow. You are also going to roll out the case step by step, which I also understand. Hurry and rush is rarely good. On the other hand, I think you should make sure that things are moving forward. We read in the newspaper that half of Flanders, by extension Belgium, will soon be equipped with route checks that serve nothing. Of course, that doesn't make politics any better. The only way to improve road safety is with a higher chance. That's why I think there's a lot of work on the shelf. I therefore look forward to the progress of the process.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u95	Madam Secretary, my question dates from just before the turn of the year. That's when 250 cops collectively called in sick to give a signal to the board. 82 agents had received administrative sanctions because they were not in good shape with their shooting tests. Normally, cops have to do shooting tests every four years, but the corona crisis means that there are barely any shooting positions open and many agents are unable to make time for their tests due to the shortage of personnel on the premises. According to the police union, it is up to the management to vouch for the organisation of the shooting trials and the officers are actually the victims of the circumstances. The incident was quickly smashed into the bud, because the operating notes of the 82 agents were withdrawn after the news was published in the media. But that does not alter the fact that I would like to take a look at the cause of the incident, Madam Secretary. Is it true that cops can't do shooting exercises? Is that a general problem, or is that just one of the railway police in Brussels-South? Can the shooting exercises be organized in a normal way again, so that the problem is definitely gone? Was there any consultation with the police unions to reach an acceptable solution, because the issue is apparently particularly sensitive? Finally, there were some consequences for the increased border controls, especially as it happened during a holiday period. After all, you are focusing on more border controls, not only in Brussels Airport, but also in important stations such as Brussels-South. Can this problem be avoided in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u96	Mr Ducarme has been excused.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u97	Mr President, I am, of course, aware of the situation. Following the initial contacts with the trade union organization, which was indeed discussed, the Director-General of the Administrative Police commissioned the withdrawal of the relevant operating notes on 30 December last year. The increased border controls were never affected, not even on 30 December, when a number of colleagues had called in sick. In fact, the necessary measures were taken immediately to fill the shortfalls so that checks could be carried out. Of course, the impossibility of giving this training is not new and this problem is not just a matter for the railway police. Of course, a number of sessions had to be cancelled and this has to do with a lack of infrastructure. To meet this, a number of measures are being taken. First of all, to raise awareness of the importance of keeping their violence-control techniques up to level. Also organising training sessions with didactic weapons, inert weapons and inert ammunition. Furthermore, the identification of employees who should be given additional shooting sessions. Finally, the improvement of follow-up in this area by systematically including training data in the GALOP police information system that supports staff management, so that this can be properly monitored. Additional exercises will be organised for the railway police in Brussels to ensure that those police officers involved can catch up with any delays or training they still need to receive in order to ensure that they can carry out that control of violence at the right level. I will, of course, follow up the action plan well and will continue to monitor the changes we have made to the initiatives we have taken. If necessary, we should also consider whether there is a need to amend letter GPI 48. In the situation that has been mentioned, there are no cases today that can no longer be corrected by the additional training and the additional catching up that we have foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u98	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer and for the correct measure to provide additional exercises. I believe that this is particularly important for those police forces which have to do with increased controls at the border crossing points. You have certainly taken the necessary and appropriate steps to this end. I admit that in corona times it is probably not easy, on the one hand, to take account of the aspirations of the police and, on the other hand, to ensure that control is maintained. If you persist with the right measures, this can be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u99	I notice that Mr Pillen is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u100	Mr President, the local police area in Antwerp is well aware of the images and has already followed up on the case. The police area was previously unaware of the recording, but picked it up via social media. A pv for illegal pregnancy of a prohibited weapon was then put up and transferred to the parquet. As the investigation is ongoing, no further information can be provided. Since the police area of Antwerp had no prior knowledge of the recordings, no prior consultation or prohibition was possible either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u101	Thank you for your answer, Madam Minister, which is correct, as far as the facts in Antwerp are concerned. My additional question, however, was to somehow ensure that the project is not repeated in other places, in other police areas, by giving clear guidelines on it. This will enable immediate action to be taken if we are informed or informed of such facts. I respect the ongoing investigation and will therefore not ask any further questions about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u102	Collègue Thiébaut, as I mentioned in your previous question of 8 October on the same subject, the reflection on updating the principle of specialisation of the railway police is still under discussion. No definitive solution has since been decided. The scenario you are referring to regarding the total withdrawal of the SPC at certain stations, of which the one at Mons is therefore still under consideration. In any event, the railway police will continue to carry out their basic police missions on its priority area of action, which means that the SPC's response teams will naturally continue to cover the entire territory with a priority focus on the sensitive points of the railway network. As I also pointed out during your previous inquiry, the request for premises at a SNCB station to establish a police station depends on many operational and budgetary factors whose complexity exceeds the mere availability of these. This point is also still under consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u103	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I will therefore look forward to the results of this study. I will not fail to return to you again if the answers delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u104	Debates of the European Parliament 55012015C by Mr Segers will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 5, by Mr Senesael (H-l5012021) Mr Senesael's 55012022C and Mrs Verhaert's 55012411C lapsed as they were not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u105	Minister, you know that the ASTRID network has experienced many difficulties in recent years, lack of coverage, difficulties in connection. The issue of land cover had already arisen many years ago in the context of high urban density areas. In particular, this situation was a handicap for the Railway Police. Under the previous legislature, it had taken a long time to implement the new ASTRID management contract. Recently, you indicated that a meeting had been held with your services and its CEO. I would like to ask you the following questions. What was the specific purpose of this meeting with ASTRID management? What decisions have been made regarding the connection difficulties encountered by the services? Are there any distinctions to be made at this level between police and response and emergency services? If so, which missions and what type of missions? How many incidents have been recorded annually since 2018? Are the technical problems related only to the receipt of communications by teams in the field or were there also failures in the call centres due to the ASTRID system? What decisions have been taken on the full coverage of the national territory by this network? What solutions have been found and planned at underground intervention sites? Furthermore, in the light of the recommendations of the Attentats Committee of Inquiry, what technical and user guidance changes have been decided upon and implemented with users?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u106	ASTRID is subject to the supervision of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Budget for decisions having a budgetary or financial impact. In this context, I am in consultation with the management of ASTRID. The first meeting was a general meeting to get to know each other and to discuss the development of the new management contract. It is important to distinguish between the different services provided by ASTRID such as the radio network, the paging network, the technical equipment of call centres 101 and 112 as well as the priority mobile phone service Blue Light Mobile. These services worked optimally during the first 15 years, but their technologies became obsolete. An extensive service upgrade program was needed. As of 2015, ASTRID has launched a process called Midlife Upgrade, which is now finalized. As part of the Midlife Upgrade of the radio network, all transmitters in the network were renewed at the end of November 2019. Radio coverage of the network was also improved by the construction of an additional 30 radio masts. Fifteen of these masts are operational, seven are in the construction phase and eight are awaiting a planning permit. There is no distinction between police and emergency response services with respect to the radio network, which is the same for all. ASTRID's radio network showed remarkable availability of 99.9% and faced three critical failures in 2020, three in 2019 and five in 2018. These breakdowns were mainly due to the Midlife Upgrade. The paging network, for its part, has shown great stability and has not experienced any critical failure in 2020. There was only one critical failure in 2019 and 3 in 2018. Call centres 101 and 112 have experienced a higher number of breakdowns over the past three years. These failures are also linked to infrastructure renewal work, with a view to making infrastructure more secure, flexible and redundant. Eleven critical failures were identified in call centres 101 and 112 in 2020, nine in 2019 and three in 2018. Blue Light Mobile's priority mobile telephony service has experienced few failures, two critical failures in 2020, one in 2019 and two in 2018. Despite the already considerable territorial coverage of ASTRID, it will never reach 100%, for various economic and ecological reasons. The user is required to report to ASTRID any insufficient coverage. It is then up to the User Advisory Committee to define priorities for future potential sites for the construction of additional relay antennas for outdoor radio coverage. Covering indoors is the responsibility of the contractors of the major projects. ASTRID responds to network failures and disruptions without delay, as soon as these failures are detected and reported by users. The maximum time for a critical failure is six hours. This includes the involvement of external suppliers. The critical failures identified in 2020 were all resolved within the contractual deadline. In the event of a breakdown, the supervisory centre, ASTRID Service Centre, is accessible to users 24 hours a day. Taking into account the recommendations of the commission of inquiry into the attacks, ASTRID carried out the structural strengthening of the capacity of the radio network. In addition, ASTRID has, since May 2018, a real-time monitoring tool for the capacity of the radio network that enables the activation of additional capacity. In major incidents, ASTRID may use a series of additional radio frequencies at Defence. ASTRID also introduced a second vehicle with satellite technology for temporary coverage enhancement. At the training level, ASTRID's TETRAsim solution has been designed. This e-learning software is a new computer-assisted learning system. Ms. Song, the current ASTRID radio network has been the subject of an extensive renewal program and is now equipped to operate optimally until 2030. Besides this, ASTRID is in the process of implementing a broadband solution dedicated to emergency and security services. Negotiations are under way, on the one hand, at political level and, on the other hand, with telecom operators. The tools deployed by ASTRID are at the forefront of what exists in Europe. The radio network is based on TETRA technology, which is the standard in Europe. In 2016, Germany decided to develop a brand new TETRA network, which tends to prove that this technology remains the best at the moment. In addition, compared to several neighbouring countries, ASTRID offers cost-effective solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u107	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As many have already done, I have seen that your answers are particularly complete. I would have liked to have an analysis on your part of the scale of the reinforcements that ASTRID has carried out. Indeed, I hear improvements have been made. But simply to say that ASTRID has made improvements following the recommendations, it is both little and many – I would say – in terms of explanations. I would therefore like to see a quantification of the extent of these reinforcements. I am also surprised that we cannot manage to cover the whole territory for economic reasons which you have not explained, and for ecological reasons which I can no doubt better understand. I will come back to this issue because time is short and I would like more details on these reasons, which prevent full coverage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u108	Thank you Minister for these answers. I think I've had answers to all my questions. Just as my colleague has just said, I am also concerned about your response to the issue of coverage and you have not explained the economic aspect. I hope you can explain that to us in another session.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u109	Mr President, Minister, my question is about the phenomenon of transmigration that I must not develop. This subject has already been mentioned in a topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u110	Mr President, my answer will be quite long. Mr Pivin, the legal basis for cross-border prosecution lies in the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 19 June 1990. In the relations between Belgium and France, it was thus agreed that cross-border prosecution would be permitted without any time or space limit, but only for a limited list of criminal offences and without the right of arrest by foreign agents. These last two aspects pose a practical problem for field police officers who must assess and qualify the facts in an emergency. In addition to the many other provisions on joint patrols and other joint operations, and despite Belgium's wish, negotiations for the Treaty of Tournai II have not led to a solution both concerning the conditions for the opening of the right of prosecution, which therefore remains limited to certain facts, and concerning the absence of a right of inquiry granted to foreign agents. France is not in a position to change its position in this regard because of a constitutional obstacle. The competent Belgian authorities have thus already been able to draw the attention of the French side to this difficulty and continue to do so regularly. The integrated police cooperates in several ways with the French and Dutch police services in the fight against irregular migration and trafficking in human beings. Firstly, they exchange information structurally, inter alia, via Europol and the Centre for Franco-Belgian Police and Customs Cooperation in Tournai. The Committee prepares a weekly summary of the issue of transmigrants. Thus, within the framework of the Tournai II agreement, a migration working group meets quarterly to exchange information on recent developments and to optimise cooperation in the Franco-Belgian border region. With the Netherlands, an operational coordination meeting is held every two months. The police services also organise joint control actions. The railway police, for example, regularly participate in joint patrols with the PAF on railway lines crossing Belgium and France. Finally, there is cooperation with the French and Dutch police in the context of judicial investigations in several cases. In the area of trafficking and trafficking in human beings, federal police investigators are even part of a joint investigation team with French and/or Dutch colleagues. Radio groups used by cross-border cooperation are included in the integrated police radiocommunication standards and are available on a dedicated Teams channel. At the international level, these standards are taught in police schools. International radio groups for the coordination of cross-border dispatches are only available at this level. International radio groups usable by field teams are accessible to all police radio stations. More recently, since April 2020, it has become possible for 500 Belgian and 500 Dutch radio stations to operate only on existing international radio groups between Belgium and the Netherlands. A memo reported to the entire integrated police force. Radio tests are regularly carried out by cross-border dispatches to prevent breakdowns. Since 2018, a total of 69 cross-border operations have been organised. Initially, Operation Medusa was a preventive action plan to control the potential displacement of transmigrants to Belgium, due to refoulement actions in large makeshift camps in France. Today, Operation Medusa is a generic police term that applies to all coordinated police actions in transit migration. These actions always have a dual purpose, both administrative and judicial, in that they are part of the fight against the resulting nuisances, on the one hand, and in the fight against crime which may be linked to trafficking in human beings on the other. These actions are therefore planned, coordinated, under the supervision of the tandem governor and director-coordinator. These actions are regularly evaluated during structural consultations with all partners involved in all provinces. Currently, the continuity of police cooperation between the Belgian and British police services is ensured, in particular through the Trade and Cooperation Agreement concluded between the European Union and the United Kingdom on 24 December; this Agreement has been in provisional application since 1 January pending its ratification by the European Union. On the basis of an in-depth legal analysis of the provisions of the agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom, and of the first practical experiences of operational services in the coming months, it will be decided whether this agreement will eventually be supplemented by a bilateral treaty in order to optimise the autonomous exchange of police information between the Belgian and British police services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic336x.u111	I thank the minister for the comprehensiveness of her response, including the possible problems to be feared because of Brexit.
