ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u1	Minister, the solidarity contribution is a progressive deduction from the total gross amount of pensions, annuities and certain supplementary benefits. This contribution was introduced in 1994 as a "crisis tax" to enable Belgium to join the euro area. This deduction varies between 0 and 2 per cent, depending on the size of the total gross amount and whether the pensioner or pensioner is dependent on the family or not. After the raising of several thresholds under the Michel government, the objective was to gradually reduce the solidarity contribution. The government agreement provides that "the thresholds applicable to the solidarity contribution and the sickness and disability insurance contribution will also be adjusted to neutralise the increase in minimum pensions". Minister, have the various gross monthly thresholds already been determined? If so, could you communicate them? Could you tell us where you are in the pension reform contained in the government agreement? Has a timetable been established? If so, could you clarify that? Do you eventually encounter any difficulties that would lead to a change in the original schedule?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u2	Madam President, Madam Minister, dear colleague, as you have said, a government agreement provides for an adjustment of the calculation of the AMI contribution, but also of the solidarity contribution, to take account of the increase in the minimum guaranteed pension. It also provides for greater solidarity between low and high pensions. As far as the AMI contribution is concerned, the adaptation has been carried out. Threshold amounts will be increased each year from 2021 to 2024, along with the increase in the minimum pension. We said we would do it and we did it. As far as the solidarity contribution is concerned, it is due from a total pension amount of EUR 2 646. Pensioners do not reach this threshold if they do not receive a supplementary pension (second pillar) with a capital of at least EUR 180 000 in addition to the minimum pension. It is therefore necessary to have a capital of EUR 180 000 in order to reach the threshold and to pay a solidarity contribution. In view of this reality, the most appropriate neutralization methods are being developed. They will be included as part of the comprehensive pension reform, which I will shortly be presenting to the government. You know that the government agreement provides for this for the month of September and that, since then, many other issues have come to the table of the government and, above all, that of the social partners who have not yet finished negotiating such important agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u3	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u4	Madam Minister, a recent audit by the Court of Auditors shows that much less officials than expected have used the new scheme to buy off their study period. In the past, the years of study of civil servants were automatically included in the calculation of their pension. That hasn't happened since the pension reform. A new scheme was introduced with the aim of streamlining the various pension systems. Workers could do this but had to apply. However, the Court of Auditors also notes that the Federal Pension Service cannot complete the applications for the valorisation of a diploma within a reasonable period of time. The average duration of the examination of an application is 172 days. That's four times as much as it should be. The audit reveals a number of weaknesses of this new scheme which can explain the low number and the long waiting periods. For example, the Court of Auditors indicates that pension services have not sufficiently engaged HR services and civil servants' pay-out bodies as a channel for disseminating information. The long-term treatment of applications for valorisation of study periods can then be explained by incomplete databases and technical problems in streamlining the three major pension systems. In addition to technical issues, the Court of Auditors has also encountered a number of problems with existing legislation. For example, the application procedure was not sufficiently precise and there is also a time limit in the law within which the applicant has to respond to the choice proposal, and the start and end dates of the choice period and of the treatment period were not really objectively defined. There is also a lack of specific rules for particular target groups, such as officials who retire for health reasons of their own accord or survivors who can continue an ongoing procedure after the death of their partner, or for cases where a third party can apply for regularisation. Madam Minister, how will you ensure that officials are better aware of the possibilities of purchasing their academic years? What initiatives will you take to improve communication? Will you amend the legislation on the valorisation of a diploma for civil servants? Will you also ensure that the treatment period can be shortened? Will you also implement the recommendations of the Court of Auditors to solve the problems it raises? If so, how does it intend to do that? If not, why not? Within what timing do you want to adjust this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u5	Mrs Lanjri, the delays in processing are due to the complexity of processing the purchase of academic years. In many cases it was indeed necessary to verify the diplomas and their content. Estimates also had to be made. Citizens asked if the buy-back was profitable. Moreover, the regulations for civil servants are more complex than those for employees. In fact, it has to be extrapolated to the last 10 years. Maximum levels should also be taken into account. So those files took more time. Moreover, the system did not exist at all in the past for civil servants. Moreover, the previous government left the administration very little time between its decision and its implementation. Currently, the files are being processed more quickly. The need for additional information to be able to process the files remains. The number of files requested per month is less than 80, whereas at the time of the audit by the Court of Auditors there were between 200 and 300 per month. So at the moment I do not intend to change the rules, but communication with the citizens is, of course, a constant focus in my policy. But that's what it's been for years in the Federal Retirement Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u6	Madam Secretary, you say that requests are now being dealt with more quickly. Are the applications now being processed within the treatment period? The Court of Auditors had observed that the treatment lasted four times as long as the normal period. If not, what are you going to do about it? You do not want to amend the legislation for the time being, but we still need to take measures to speed up the process of processing applications. After all, we need to be able to respond to citizens' questions in good time. You also say that it is necessary to continue communication to the citizen, which is positive, but you do not say how the Federal Pension Service will do so. Madam Secretary, can you answer me? You did not answer the questions. I'm allowed to reconnect to you in my reply, aren't I? Can you give an additional answer if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u7	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, I will ask my services for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u8	Mrs Lanjri, since I was Minister of Pensions, my cabinet has been asked by public institutions from all over the country to count all kinds of engagements for the pension calculation. Such leave should be included in the list of annexes to the Law of 6 January 2014 in order to qualify for the pension. My cabinet and the pension service have been working well together since the first day to answer those many questions. The pension service is preparing the necessary texts. I will be able to give you more details in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u9	Madam Secretary, I asked the question about last year's leave. You replied that your services were working on the layout of the list. Apparently, they're still working on that and it's gonna take a few weeks. I propose that I repeat the question in a few weeks' time, unless you provide me with that information by e-mail; I leave it to you to do so. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u10	That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u11	Mrs Lanjri, I can confirm that I consider it essential that no differences are created between the arrangements. Any reform I undertake must be fair and transparent. Convergence, not in a negative sense, is indeed important in terms of mixed careers. Social protection will only be accepted if it is understood. I can also report that the Federal Pension Service has launched a project that will immediately take into account the impact of one pension benefit on another so that fewer debts and arrears are created. As a general rule, in the future, there will be a significant reduction in the cases where arrears and debts of different pension benefits have to be compensated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u12	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. In the meantime, I am glad that the Federal Pension Service is continuing to improve the system so that it does not have to give back for one and receive for the other. After all, that is unnecessarily complex. It is good that this is done by the pension service itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u13	I have taken note of the problem raised by the Ombudsman of Pensions. As I have said on several occasions here today, I am preparing a global reform of the ZIV contribution and the solidarity contribution to make the system fairer. In this context, we will also consider the Ombudsman's recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u14	I note that you are certainly not insensitive to the subject matter and that you agree with the Ombudsman's proposal that the pension amount should not be reduced below the threshold for the ZIV contribution. You say that you will take this into account in the global pension reform, which should normally be completed by September. At that time we will be able to identify the concrete initiatives you have taken in this regard and we can come back to this if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u15	Mrs Lanjri, Mrs Willaert, I have already received these questions. When I proposed my general policy paper, I announced that I would ask the FPD to initiate an automatic investigation for the IGO. The fact that someone is not entitled to the IGO today does not mean that this will always be the case. Unfortunately, family and financial situations can change. For people with low pensions, this support is much needed. To this end, the FPD must also have the necessary resources, to be negotiated under the next administrative agreement. It will certainly be one of my express requests. The five-year period is one of the options proposed. We need to look at the most efficient solution. The issue will also be the subject of an information campaign. The way in which the campaign will take place has not yet been decided. It is certainly needed in the fight against the non-take-up of rights and against poverty. The next governance agreement would be a good time for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u16	Madam Minister, I must confess to you, you know this too, that I am a great supporter of the automatic granting of rights to people. When they are entitled to a benefit or allowance, I believe that we should give them that right without having to ask for it. In the case of the IGO, this award is very often complex. Sometimes someone may have a partial IGO, but because, for example, the minimum pension increases a little, suddenly no longer has an IGO. Those concerned then believe that they are no longer entitled to do so. That is why the Ombudsman's proposal is to do something about this problem. Only, Madam Minister, it is not right that we should evolve towards the examination of the IGO after every five-year period. It would be a good thing that every year it would be examined whether people who have been refused to do so could not again benefit from an income guarantee for older people instead of waiting five years for such a study to be carried out via data matching and data mining. In five years' time, people can end up in poverty and problems. So let us deal with the Ombudsman's suggestion, but let us definitely shorten the five-year period. I would prefer that research every year and, if that is difficult, every two years. In any case, retrospective work must be carried out. If people turn out to be entitled to an income guarantee, and it is seen that they have not received it for a year and a half, then they must receive it from the moment they were eligible for it. That's really something we have to bet on. I think you're also convinced that we should do this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your positive reply. I am not going to repeat what Mrs Lanjri said. I agree with her when it comes to five years. It would be good if this were to be done on an annual basis, but with today's digitisation and computer systems, it should be possible to get a signal if someone opens rights again, in this case on an IGO. This is something that we should do in this modern society, but it also requires resources, of course. Madam Secretary, can you tell me the timing of the new board agreement with the Federal Pension Service?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u18	I don't know. I will check with my services and give the answer to the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u19	If a pensioner receives a higher pension, e.g. by increasing the minimum pension, which means that the pensioner receives a few euros more pension per month, the person in question may lose the income guarantee for the elderly, and the corresponding social rates for gas, water, electricity and telephone. If the amount of IGO increases, as was the case on 1 January 2020, that person may again claim the IGO, but in order for the IGO to be granted effectively, he must apply for it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I have already answered the questions in plenary. There has indeed been a great deal to do about the problem and have met with the associations concerned. In any case, I take account of their analyses with respect for the social dialogue. It is indeed not a good idea to abolish all controls. We do, however, want a more balanced system. I am currently working with my administration on an alternative to the current control, which has been suspended until 30 September. We need to consider very carefully whether or not we can pick up the old system completely, as this led to more unjustified suspensions and had the disadvantage that pensioners had to go to the town hall each time to apply for proof of residence, which they had to send themselves. So it's a complex system. We investigate whether direct communication between the municipality and the FPD can be a solution. That does require an electronic flow of information. In any case, we must avoid overloading the municipalities. At the same time, we must pay attention to the protection of privacy. The way I see control is that we do not unnecessarily harass the older people involved, who are among the most vulnerable groups. So we need to think about a system without incomprehensible administrative obligations. There is also a need for some serenity in the debates. However, we have already achieved some results. For example, we have already prepared a KB, which still has to be submitted to the Council of State. In the design of KB we clarify how the 29 days are counted. We have taken over a recommendation from the Pension Office. The day of departure and return will be taken into account in the period of permanent and effective stay in Belgium. Short stays, up to 48 hours, will therefore no longer be included in the 29 days. Those concerned will no longer have to report them. By the end of the year, the system will be reformed to ensure a better balance between rights and obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u21	Madam Secretary, no one in the House is asking us to return to the old system. That indeed had a lot of flaws, many letters were lost and the right holders were already doomed with the IGO controls. It is positive that you have developed a KB for the calculation of the 29 days, which does not include the day of departure and the day of arrival for the 29 days. This will remove at least one problem. However, I do not need to remind you that there are many other problems with the control of who receives an IGO. That was demonstrated in abundance in the hearings. Some people are afraid, for example, that they will miss the postman, who is in control, and therefore stay at home. That is all the worse, now that we are allowed to do another terrace. It is a fortunate coincidence that the inspections for COVID-19 have since been suspended. Civil society organisations are concerned that once controls are restarted, older people are once again afraid to go outside. You are calling for the issue to be looked at with the necessary serenity. I agree. I have also tabled a legislative proposal on this subject with a possible solution, which was supported by colleagues from other groups. I hope that we can move faster and not wait until the end of the year for the reform, because if the health situation allows it, the controls will be restarted. I urge you, Madam Secretary, to look at things more quickly, so that when they are restarted, checks are carried out with respect for the elderly and their freedom. We can also work on a solution in committee on the basis of my bill. You may also include my proposal in your proposal, as long as the system improves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u22	It is really a relief that the Minister for Pensions also advocates a more humane procedure. The file has been on our mind since the last legislature. The fact that you acknowledge the problems and the steps you have already taken are not nothing. It is very good that you took a firm hold of the file immediately. In fact, I am ashamed to say that the corona crisis fortunately had to suspend the control procedure. Never waste a good crisis . However, if checks can be carried out again, the new system should be applied as soon as possible. There's not much time. That is also an important factor. None of the speakers want to go back to the older system and then we need to find a solution quickly, with the necessary checks-and-balances. There is a need for a serene debate. The issue is very important to us, because it concerns vulnerable senior citizens. Everyone knows a story: the people concerned are afraid and feel affected in their integrity and humanity by the way the controls have been carried out so far. We can no longer accept that. You hold the file firmly, in a human way. I look forward to the sequel. I suppose we'll have to go pretty soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u23	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I can only endorse what Mr Willaert has said. We notice a big difference with the previous approach, when we hit a wall each time. You are really listening to civil society, taking up the dossier and trying to make progress. The points in the draft royal decree are very positive. That's a relief. Many pensioners with an IGO didn't even dare with their association on a day trip to the Netherlands. They will be given greater certainty with the proposed solution. We also welcome the exemption for over 80s, the most vulnerable group among the elderly. That does not prevent us all from agreeing on this, on the suspension of checks due to the corona crisis, and on the need for a human procedure. I have tabled a number of amendments to Mr Lanjri's proposal, which include automatic data exchange. After the lockdown, it is important that we do not force the many pensioners back into lockdown through the IGO control procedure. It is equally essential that the social security charter be respected. This was not always the case in the current procedure, certainly not in terms of time limits or the possibility of being heard before a drastic decision such as the suspension of the sole income, the small pension to which the persons concerned are entitled, is taken. I am sure that you will take this into account and look forward to your proposals and the further steps we can take to give vulnerable senior citizens a dignified old age.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, in the first example, the Federal Pension Service (FPD) unfortunately has no choice but to collect the necessary data as soon as possible. If a person with a family pension only subscribes to an address, the FPD must assume that that person is actually divorced. We can't know if that person is still living together as a couple. Otherwise, there is a risk that benefits will be unduly paid out. At present we are no longer waiting for registration in the National Register, but without clear information from the two persons involved it is not possible to pay the total amount. In the second example, legislation requires an agreement to guarantee the reciprocity of persons who have worked in another country and to allow payment in Belgium. These agreements provide for mutual recognition in the field of social security and ensure that interests are guaranteed in both directions. We need to examine whether this reciprocity condition is still appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u25	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. It seems bizarre to me that the fact that people who do not have Belgian nationality but have lived and worked here their whole lives and moved abroad at some point, whether or not they receive a pension, depends on their country of origin, even if they have worked for it. Now we are going to let that depend on a reciprocity agreement, when they may have worked in our country for 30 or 40 years. It would be good if it were to happen on a reciprocal basis, but it is important that everyone who has worked here also builds up a pension for all the years he has worked here. It is a good thing that you want to investigate this, but do not leave it at that and take action, even without a reciprocity agreement. You did not answer my last more general question about the Ombudsman's annual report on pensions. I would like to know which recommendations the Ombudsman will address immediately and which in the long term. Either you forgot that question or you didn't notice it. Can you answer that or will you give me the answer in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u26	I will give you the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u27	Good. It can also go through the committee, so all members get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u28	Colleagues, I have seen the Ombudsman's analyses, which I have met. I take his recommendations with great concern. With regard to this specific regulation, namely the payment of the pension in the month of death, I understand that it is experienced as an injustice and considered unfair for the relatives of the persons concerned. I have therefore asked my services to examine this particular issue in terms of regulation and financial impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased to hear that this point will be raised. We'll be back in a few weeks or even a few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u30	I am, of course, pleased that you will examine the regulation and financial impact. The problem has been around for a long time, but has been identified more frequently with the corona crisis. Unfortunately, a lot of people died and it happened more often that in the month of death there was no pension, while the invoices, among other things from the residential care centres, had to be paid. That was perceived as very unjust. It is therefore very useful to consider whether the pension cannot be paid in proportion to the date of death. Until that date the invoices will continue to go through and they will also have to be paid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u31	Madam President, by the way, perhaps we should change the Rules of Procedure so that we can also refer to the reply of a previous speaker. That is what I would like to do. In any case, Madam Minister, it is good that you have taken the bull by the horns and that the services will examine the matter. We thumb for a positive answer, so that in a difficult period when someone dies, there is proportional pension available to pay the current invoices until death.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u32	It is a pity that a pandemic is needed to get beyond the scope of a problem that existed before the corona crisis. This unfair treatment is as old as the relevant legislation. You say you'll have the case investigated. That's nice. But its impact is well known, if an ombudsman rightly points out that things are going wrong here. So I urge you not only to measure the impact, but also to change the rules and effectively overcome the problem. I have every confidence that you will work on this. If that is not the case, we will remind you of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u33	Minister, when an amount of pension has been unduly paid to a pensioner by the FPS, the pensioner requests a recovery of the gross amounts. Pensioners must therefore repay an amount higher than the amount they actually received. Of course, they will receive their tax return in return for the year in which the recovery took place, but this difference in the amount to be reimbursed represents a very heavy burden for low-income people. Clearly, this is not in line with the content of the tax administration circular which requires that, until 31 July of the year following the undue payment, only the net amount of the pension be refunded. Minister, do you intend to ask the SFP to align its collection practice with the tax regularization procedure as defined in this circular? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u34	Ms. Leroy, be assured that the Federal Pension Service (FPS) and my office are well aware of the importance of this issue for pensioners. Following the intervention of the Pension Ombudsman in January 2021, it is already possible today for a pensioner to request reimbursement of the net amount of an unfairness notified by the SFP rather than the gross amount. However, the procedure for reimbursement of a net amount is now only possible manually. It is not yet automated at the service level. However, I can tell you that the FPS has initiated an analysis to automate the repayment of net undue amounts. However, this complete automation of the process of repayment of a net amount of undue can only be envisaged in the longer term given the major impact of this solution on the current functioning of the computer system. The entire software needs to be modified, but apparently it is already possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u35	Madam Minister, thank you. I think it's a good thing to go to this automaticity dear to you, I know. We had talked about it at the time of these famous reports from the mediation service. Until this is done automatically, a proposal would be to notify the person who has to repay these amounts, at the time the claim is announced, that the person can claim the net amount. Pensioners may not be informed of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u36	Madam President, Mrs Samyn, Mr Sander Loones has asked me in writing for the list of grants. For a detailed overview of the case, I invite you from my answer under No. 94. As you know, any grant application of more than EUR 3,100 must be submitted to the financial inspection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u37	Madam President, Minister, I will look up the answer to Mr Loones' question. In any case, the most important thing with regard to the grant database is that all the data will end up in it. There are several governments that can give money to agencies. Apparently, there is no transparency in this matter. In any case, I will look into the answer you gave to Mr Loones' question. You already have an answer. We have not yet received an answer from certain ministers. If I have any questions, I'll reconnect with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u38	Madam Minister, in order to keep the costs of ageing manageable, pensions and labour market reforms seem to go hand in hand. The main objective for the Minister for Employment is to bring the level of activity to 80%. I will not open this debate here, but your government agreement announces that measures will be taken on end-of-life arrangements, such as soft runways, on part-time pensions, on career training and reorientation, and on the transfer of know-how between generations of workers. Madam Minister, during the trade union actions of the last few weeks, where we were present, you saw me last week, trade unionists regularly slammed the words SWT and rules for the heavy professions to my head. You said at the beginning of the legislature that the heavy professions would come to the negotiating table sooner or later. In view of the numerous questions raised by the SWT in the light of the many restructurings and the significant increase in the number of long-term sick between 55 and 64 years from almost 111,000 to 184 000 in the period 2012-2019, will you speed up the subject up? What will you do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u39	Mr Colebunders, we naturally share the concern about the increase in the number of people with disabilities. As I said before, there are communicating vessels in social security. The ongoing social dialogue is essential. Today, the social partners are moving towards end-of-life schemes. It is up to them to comment on SWT systems, as the collective agreements form their basis. The government will indeed make every effort to provide workers with the opportunity to work in a high quality manner. The reforms I want to carry out have the same objective, but do not ask me today to say much more about them. Let us wait and facilitate social dialogue. The debate has nothing to gain from big statements. So I will leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u40	Madam Secretary, I will continue to try to extract information from you, especially because it is a hot item and because my heart is with the unions and the people in the workplace. You must be aware of the differences. These are often low-skilled workers in the heavy-duty professions, for which little investment is made in safety and better working conditions. You put the ball in the social partners' camp, which in itself is nothing wrong with it. However, I would urge you to examine the situation in the companies themselves and listen to the trade union representatives on the workplace, so that you can get a picture of what really lives there. These workers also have the right to a decent career end, often at a younger age.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u41	Will that be in the same way as before the corona crisis or will there be adjustments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u42	Accessibility is one of the spearheads of my pension policy. After this period of corona, we will have to ensure that public services remain accessible to all citizens. We will have to take into account the digital divide and the most vulnerable groups. At my request, in the week of May 10th, the Federal Pension Service reopened the pension points in its regional offices by appointment. Citizens can make an appointment via the free 1765 pension line. Our pension consultant will first try to help citizens by telephone. If that is not enough, they are planning an appointment with the citizen. The contact points in the municipalities are currently being reopened at the request of the municipalities and with strict compliance with health rules. The FPD was never completely closed because during this temporary closure there were also arrangements for files that could not be handled by telephone. One of the lessons that we can learn from the corona crisis today is the importance of a good telephone service, especially for the citizens who do not know our digital channels, such as the FPD website and mypension.be, or who do not find the answers to their questions. The experience gained during the corona crisis shows that the majority of citizens' questions can be answered perfectly on the phone. From the start of the pandemic, the FPD has focused on strengthening its reception and expanding its services through this channel. For example, you can apply for a pension today via the phone and our information team helps civil servants fill out your forms by telephone. The Pension Service has shown itself to be an organisation at the service of the citizen. This is an approach for which he also received congratulations from the Pension Office in his annual report 2020. In view of the positive experience of citizens, I therefore support the Pension Service's intention to maintain good practices and improvements in its service provision even after the corona crisis. I can assure you that it will remain possible to make a physical appointment for situations where it is not possible to provide an answer to the question by telephone. The next FPD governance agreement will develop concrete physical accessibility projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u43	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I think we have a shared concern and ambition in this regard. The contact points, these retirement points, must clearly remain in place. The Ombudsman has also called for this. Because those points were closed for a while, some people panicked or worried. Anyone who retires, usually older, would like to have everything in order. Thank you for your intervention. Undoubtedly, this happened after my question of 4 May 2021. I'm guessing after I asked the federal ombudsmen, you asked them to take care of it. Thank you for that. I hope that we can continue to live together in the future. However, the latter is aside and does not need to be included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u44	The legislation on supplementary pensions has linked the payment of the supplementary pension to the statutory pension since 2016. A payout is in principle only possible at statutory retirement, from when the conditions for early retirement are met. There is only one exception to this principle today, the advance for the purchase of a real estate. Although the fundamental link between the statutory pension and the supplementary pension is logical, we have to observe that in some situations that rule is considered unfair. More specifically, these are situations in which citizens face major setbacks. You give an example of an older self-employed person facing bankruptcy, but the problem is not limited to self-employed persons. Citizens who are faced with a medical emergency also sometimes ask why they should not address their pension reserve. In some countries, legislation allows exceptional recourse to supplementary pensions in certain situations of extreme financial or medical hardship. I am prepared to investigate whether this is possible in our country as well. So I'm being constructive. However, we must be careful with it. This is a question of pension money, and that objective must remain at the heart of it; the money is intended for a pension. In order to take into account all the relevant considerations, I will seek the advice of the Commission on Supplementary Pensions and the Commission on Supplementary Pensions for Self-employed Persons on the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u45	Madam Secretary, absolutely, my day is done. It is good that you take that consideration into account in your reflection on pension reform. I look forward to the advice you will receive on this. The problem will undoubtedly be even more acute as a result of the corona crisis. I look forward to September or October, because I suppose you will include the advice in your overall reform. If you have them before, the better, I'm glad you'll let me know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u46	Madam Minister, my perhaps rather atypical question has to do with the social and fiscal status of paid sportsmen and women. There are a number of legislative proposals before Parliament on this matter. At the moment, the government is discussing this reform, but I have also tabled a legislative proposal to align the supplementary pension of the paid sportsman with the pension scheme of employees. After all, a paid sportsman can take up his supplementary pension at 35 years, with tax advantages, while for other workers it can only be done at 65 years. I already requested figures on this last year, which showed that supplementary pensions were still limited to a small group of sportsmen, especially football players, who can raise large amounts of capital. However, a supplementary pension was not available to all paid athletes and certainly not to women athletes, because there were only two women in the system. Is the supplementary pension part included in the reform plans, as the government has drawn on the reform of the social and tax status of paid sportsmen and women? A report by the Court of Auditors shows that public funds are not always used efficiently.: there is a small group with a large capital and a large group with only a small supplementary pension. I believe that the supplementary pension system for paid sportsmen and women is a concrete example of this. That is why I would like to have updated figures and, above all, I would like to know whether the supplementary pension will be included by the government in the reform of the social and fiscal status of paid sportsmen and women.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u47	Mrs Vanrobaeys, the supplementary pension law allows paid sportsmen to take up their supplementary pension from the age of 35. In 2020, a total of 2,872 paid a supplementary pension to sportsmen, of which only three were women. In addition, 1,629 others were still active, the rest concerned persons with dormant rights. The total accumulated reserve amounted to 226 million euros. In 2019, a total contribution of €31 million was paid by 41 sports clubs. The figures will be made available to you in writing. An adjustment of the system is essential for me. This must form part of the reform of the tax and parafiscal advantages of professional sportsmen and sports clubs provided for in the government agreement. Professional athletes are the only category to benefit from this exemption system. Let me be clear, nobody retires at 35 years, not even the paid athletes. Therefore, the existing scheme has little to do with pension building. The government supports this system but it is particularly unfair, especially in relation to others who have to wait for their retirement before they can take up their supplementary pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u48	Madam Minister, I am very pleased that this is part of the reform of the tax and parafiscal statute. It is particularly unfair to all other workers who have to wait until the age of 65 to be able to take up the supplementary pension. If that's possible at 35 years, that's a huge difference. Moreover, I fully agree with you that this is not a question of building up a pension, but of optimising wages. The figures show the same trend, one woman added. As regards both the number of dormant contracts and the capital, there is no other change. So it's just about wage optimisation. I believe that there are more efficient ways of using public money. We need to align this with the rules for ordinary workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u49	Madam President, users of a parking card for people with disabilities will have the right to park in the reserved parking spaces. This card can be requested both by adults and by a child. When it comes to a child with disabilities, it is done by one of the parents or by the person who takes care of the child. The card may only be used if the owner or the person with a disability is present. If the card is still used without the person with a disability being present, an agent who identifies this infringement may withdraw the card and return it to the DG Persons with a disability. In this case, DG Persons with Disabilities may also decide not to deliver a new card to the person concerned in the next six months. It's trouble sometimes. Depending on the circumstances, the driver's driving licence may also be withdrawn or the wrong car parked and the driver will be fined 116 euros. The abuse of such a parking card is, of course, not done and must be punished. I have no problem with this abuse being dealt with. Fortunately there are signs here and there to sensitize people with the text: "If you take my parking space, take my handicap." In practice, it appears that disabled people are experiencing difficulties due to the seizure of a parking card and the fact that they cannot use the reserved parking spaces for six months. People with disabilities are thus restricted in their mobility. Sometimes we see that this also happens in children. Sometimes the card is abused by one of the parents, when the child is not present. Then the other parent can no longer drive the child to school or work. Well, that's a problem. Such cases were also reported to me, as were cases of divorced parents. Madam Minister, I also see that there are a lot of differences between police zones and even between cops. For example, there are also examples of offences where the card is not withdrawn and one does not even get a fine, but only a warning. In many municipalities it happens as follows. Suppose a parent of a disabled child drops his child off at school, comes home and parks the car in a parking lot for a disabled person, which is not allowed. A lot of cops give a warning in that case. The importance of the disabled person must always be at the forefront. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to call for a warning to be given at the first time in a situation where the driver uses the parking card without the card owner being present and not immediately withdrawing the card. Except in the following case, the card may be withdrawn whenever it appears that the person with a disability has died, no longer lives in the country or when it concerns a forged card. In other cases, I would argue that the card should not be withdrawn immediately, that a warning should be given and that the corresponding fine should be fined. It is important, however, that there is more uniformity in all municipalities and police areas, so that one does not get a fine in one place and not in another place, so that one withdraws the card in one place and not in another place. That's not good. Madam Minister, what do you think of the suggestion that we should do it this way and create more uniformity? Are you prepared to ensure a uniform approach in cooperation with the Minister for the Interior? This can be done, for example, through instruction to the police or through clear communication to the police, so that there is no difference in approach between the zones. It is also important that the importance and mobility of people with disabilities should be at the forefront of punishing the abuse of the parking card. So I have no problem punishing abuse. However, withdrawing the card is sometimes a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u50	Madam Secretary, I will not repeat everything, we will respond to the same e-mail. It's brief. When a parent, especially in co-parenting, is punished for misuse of the child's card, we must ensure that the child is not punished. In my view, it's simple: you give the parent a clear fine, no doubt, but you don't take the child's card. I wonder what your opinion is on that and how quickly we can return that card?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u51	Ladies, I share your concerns. Persons with disabilities should not be punished for the misuse of their parking card. This form of fraud and abuse has been an important issue in the sector for years. That is why I am working with my administration on a general reform of the parking card for people with disabilities. The approach to controls and sanctions is also addressed. When a card is seized by the police, the disabled person will not suffer from it. I can't rule on the administrative fines given by the police. In any case, the police have discretion. She can decide to return the card to this base. The issue covers several areas. My administration is responsible for the recognition of the handicap and the granting of the parking card. The use of that card is determined by the Minister of Mobility. It is controlled by the Minister of the Interior. I will, in consultation with my colleagues, consider how we can streamline and integrate this into our Federal Disability Plan. This plan will be submitted before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u52	Madam Minister, you reassure me when you say that it is about the summer recess of 2021 and not about the summer recess of 2026. It is good that you say that the person with disabilities should not suffer from the withdrawal of a card. I think we all share that view. That's a good thing. I note that there are at least three ministers involved. This probably also explains the fact that this is dealt with in different ways. In one municipality the card is withdrawn, not in the other municipality. I hope you will work on this with the other ministers. After all, it is very important for this to be uniform and for everyone to know what is happening, apart from the fact that one can also get a fine if one commits an offence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u53	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very good answer. You are well aware of the priority to be given, particularly to those who commit the offence and not to those with disabilities, who once again are victims of it. The person who e-mailed both me and Mrs. Lanjri has been waiting six months to get that card back. I hope this can happen soon, because there's really been a mistake here. The fine was justified, but that's another matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u54	Madam Minister, under your predecessor, the Social Integration PPS started an evaluation of the GPMI. This was addressed to the research firm Tempera. The research and evaluation have been dragging on for a long time. First we could expect the results by the end of 2020 and according to a final update everything would be completed by March 2021. So far, however, we have not seen anything. As you know, the PVDA is not a fan of imposing unfeasible conditions on people on a living wage. This does not help them at all in terms of work, living or relationships. The approach is also very different from municipality to municipality and is therefore difficult to control. A serious debate on this is therefore urgent and important. Madam Secretary, when can we expect the evaluation of the GPMI? Why does the research and the preparation of the evaluation take longer than planned? If the evaluation is completed, what conclusions will be drawn from this and how will you proceed with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u55	Mr Colebunders, the evaluation of the GPMI is still ongoing. Unfortunately, the pandemic has slowed down, particularly with regard to the scheduled conversations between the Examination Office and the persons involved within the OMCWs. However, I can confirm that several meetings of the guidance committee have taken place since my arrival and that the investigation is progressing. Depending on the results, I will take the necessary measures. The fourth anti-poverty plan, which I will shortly propose, already provides that the GPMI should be a tailor-made instrument aimed at clients. In the meantime, in my question, the government has made additional funds available to the OMCWs to strengthen the guidance of people under 25 years of age and students under the GPMI. This is absolutely necessary, given the social and economic context of the moment. It's a 10% increase in the federal state's intervention. This measure was extended until the end of September. The results of the study are planned for September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u56	I'll ask the same question as the N-VA, is that September of this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u57	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u58	I'm in hopeful expectation. So we really want a clear deadline. It is too important a dossier, with a lot of input from basic organisations in the field. It is worth a thorough debate. It can only work if the promises and timing are respected this time. The PVDA Group really expects the evaluation to be explained in this committee. This should not become a digital report as there are actually dozens already. The way we deal with people in poverty is really too important for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u59	Madam Minister, as you undoubtedly know, this is an initiative that has grown from the people with disabilities themselves. They are quite rightly trying to give the necessary support to this map and continue to take very active initiatives in this regard. I think they are right, because otherwise the European Disability Card (EDC) will become an empty vessel. I don't think you want me to. You have always been in favour of this instrument, so we are just on the same page. However, you announced in your policy statement that you would consult with a number of partners, because the most important thing will be the completion of this card. I would like to know what is going on today with the issue of automatic allocation, for which you should, by the way, hear the Länder. How will you develop this award properly, with respect for privacy and the medical secret? That's not obvious, I realize that. How will you consult with the various associations on tourism and culture, and with the various emergency services, spread across the levels of competence in this country? I understand it's difficult, but you can handle it, Madam Secretary. You are passionate about the subject. You transcend the various levels. My question is: what happened today? What can be given to the group that matters? I think they are right to continue to ask questions about this. I am happy to be their spokesman, here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u60	Mrs Van Peel, people with disabilities can indeed apply for an EDC since November 2017. This card gives them certain advantages in terms of sport, culture and leisure. In 2021, the European Commission launched a new strategy for the rights of persons with disabilities. One of the initiatives is the proposal to introduce the map in all Member States by the end of 2023, building on the pilot project introduced in eight countries, including Belgium. In this sense, I intend to use this European initiative and the Belgian expertise to promote the use of this card, both in the target group and in the potential partners, with the aim of expanding the offer. In addition, some organisations argue that the EDC should also be used in other areas, such as the economy, emergency services and security. We have already discussed this in committee with Mrs Lanjri. This measure is considered in the framework of the Federal Disability Plan. In addition, we are also improving the website for the EDC. I want this website to be used by as many people as possible and inclusive for all types of disability. Finally, my administration is examining whether the EDC can be awarded automatically. This decision also concerns the Länder with which we will have to discuss, as you know, but it is difficult for the extension to other services such as the security services and medical services. The High Council for Persons with a Handicap doesn't want to extend the map. We will discuss this with the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u61	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I hope you're not just gonna take advice. You don't seem like that kind of person to me. You'll think about it yourself. I could, of course, respond very politically to the levels of policy. I have a solution for that. You know that our party has a solution to this, but of course you are not going to agree with me. It's a good thing you're doing the consultation. That will be necessary at this stage. From the group of people with disabilities, which is very broad, from people with disabilities to people with disabilities that are not seen at first sight, there is a great demand not only to limit it to a discount card but to give a broader signal. For example, the card can be used to respond understandingly in many situations, as you know. I know it is not obvious, but that is where the great challenge lies to get to work on this. So we'll definitely come back to this. I feel you're still looking for yourself, and I understand that. We'll be hearing from each other soon enough to see where we stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u62	Madam Secretary, this question was once raised by the Pension Office. There would appear to be a disagreement between the Federal Pension Service (FPD) and the Pension Office on the equivalence of part-time career breaks before 1996. A whole legal argument has been given by the Pension Office that this should be treated equally, but so far no action has been taken by the Federal Pension Service. I had tabled an interpretative bill myself, but the Council of State said that, because it was settled through a Royal Decree, it would be better to do so by means of a circular letter. This case is pressing because it concerns people who have interrupted their part-time careers to take up care duties or to take care of children and who are now retiring. I also think that it is particularly unfair that full-time careers should be taken into account for pensions, but not part-time careers. Madam Secretary, can the recommendation of the Pension Office be followed? If not, what is the reason for this according to the Federal Pension Service?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u63	Mrs Vanrobaeys, I talked to my administration about this dossier. From a legal point of view, the equivalence of periods of partial career break for persons under 50 years of age, in the period before 1996, is not possible. I understand that this is seen as unfair to those involved. The FPD developed the legal basis and maintains its position, as set out in the Annual Report of the Ombuds Service Pensions of 2018. My administration is followed by several judgments. I take this dossier to heart. I have asked for a full legal and budgetary analysis of this situation. We will certainly keep you informed of the progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u64	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Frankly, I regret the attitude of the Federal Pension Service in this respect, especially since full-time career breaks are treated equally. People who worked part-time and have only reduced their careers part-time are punished in the field of pensions, while they have worked and combined their work with care responsibilities. We have already tabled a legislative proposal on this subject. However, a circular letter would have been the simplest solution. Indeed, I would like to be kept informed of the legal and budgetary analysis. From the point of view of justice and fairness, I am considering converting our legislative proposal, a proposal of interpretative law, into an ordinary legislative proposal. The Pensions Ombudsdienst has also provided a whole legal analysis with an interpretation which makes it possible to compare part-time career breaks correctly. This pension scheme mainly benefits women, because most of the care tasks are taken up by women. I therefore believe that we should seriously consider following the interpretation of the ombudsmen's service. In any case, I hope that you will give me the figures so that I can look at them in detail and decide what further steps I will take.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u65	Madam Minister, the model of exit from homelessness that prevailed in Belgium until recently is that whereby the individual spends several months or years in forms of housing of limited duration, before he or she is able to find a permanent individual housing. Yet there are other models of exit from homelessness, and I congratulate you for the attention you give to it. In particular, you are looking to develop the "Housing First" model, which offers an inverted logic according to which housing is the prerequisite for the other problems of life to be solved. From 2013 to 2016, as part of an experimental phase, the Housing First model was tested in eight municipalities. Since then, the Regions have invested and allowed these practices to continue and expand in pioneering cities. At the federal level, a development support unit for this project was established, namely the Housing First Belgium LAB. Minister, could you clarify the division of jurisdiction in the Housing First project? In concrete terms, what are the activities of Housing First LAB?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u66	Madam Member, we had the opportunity to discuss Housing First at our last question-and-answer meeting. As you have recalled, since 2016, the federated entities are largely competent in the fight against homelessness, whether it concerns housing, social action or welfare. Nevertheless, the federal authority continued to fund and support the Housing First Initiative's Centre of Expertise and Coordination, better known as "Housing First LAB". This social innovation incubator is composed of two coordinators, whose mission is to promote such practices, to embody expertise in this field, to collaborate and to establish partnerships with the Regions. The Housing First LAB is a strategic and expertise unit essential for the implementation of this project in Belgium. This unit is currently piloting the experiment "social affiliation process of tenants, development of new methodologies" under way in seven territories. The result will be presented by an interuniversity consortium. Recognizing that Housing First is the much more efficient solution to chronic homelessness and that the federal government must play a role in this regard, I am currently thinking of federal financial support. It would be complementary to regional resources, but crucial for a cross-cutting phenomenon that has nothing to do with the distribution of competences within our country. The modalities of this support are refined and discussed with the Housing First LAB, which will actively contribute to the qualitative development of the project, and whose action will have to be sustained beyond April 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u67	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. It is true that the Housing First shows that the public who encounter the most difficulties in re-integration is able to live in a dwelling directly from the street, thanks to intensive support adapted to their needs and expectations. The positive results of this innovative initiative indeed deserve that we continue to devote human and financial resources to it at all levels of power to ensure its success and sustainability. I take note of the fact that you are working on federal financial support. I will allow myself to come back to you to know the follow-up of the operations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u68	Madam Minister, in March the European Commission presented its recommendations to tackle child poverty. She has also announced her strategy for the rights of the child. Part of this is the European Child Guarantee, which is part of the European Social Pillar. It would be approved at the Council of the European Union on 14 June. This European child guarantee will undoubtedly have an impact on the level of both the federal government and the Walloon, Flemish and Brussels policies. National governments are actually encouraged to submit national action plans within six months of the adoption of the child guarantee. Member States should also appoint national coordinators to monitor the implementation of those national plans. Each Member State shall publish a progress report every two years. The European Commission will monitor the implementation of these plans through the budgetary process of the European Semester. In your policy paper, you indicated that the European Child Guarantee will be an important guide to your child poverty policy. In addition, at the beginning of this year, your administration would analyse the final conclusions of the KPMG study Measuring the effect of local consultation platforms in the fight against family poverty and explore the inspiring practices for the timely detection of problem situations and introduce concrete integrated assistance for children and their families. On the basis of this analysis, you would investigate which projects are needed. Who will coordinate the implementation of the national plans for the Belgian child guarantee? If that is not known, when will it be appointed? What measures do you wish to include in that national anti-poverty plan, under your authority? What conclusions have you drawn from the analysis of the study on the identification of problem situations and assistance for children and their families? What specific projects will you launch in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u69	The fight against child poverty is a priority for Europe. All Member States must take action in this regard. The commitment to the youngest generation is necessary, especially in the times of crisis we are going through. Moreover, we have soon taken measures for young people in terms of their mental health, the digital divide, additional support through the OMCWs and so on. Belgium obviously wants to play an important role in the long term, especially in view of the EU Presidency in 2024. The appointment of a national coordinator is currently under discussion. I'll keep you informed of this. The POD and my cabinet are following this file closely. The European Child Guarantee will be adopted by the EPSCO Council on 14 June. Each country will then have nine months to implement the necessary measures. Those who say child poverty also say family poverty. As you know, I am in the process of developing a global and transversal poverty reduction plan. This plan will also include measures to combat child poverty. However, this does not only require an approach at federal level, because many powers in this area lie with the Länder and because poverty has many different aspects. We must therefore join forces and take action on various fronts. This way of networking and cooperation is central to the project of the consultation platforms to combat the family poverty organised by the OMCWs. The POD is currently examining the possibilities for concrete projects and measures in this area on the basis of KPMG's impact study. You can consult this report and other working documents on the website of the POD.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u70	Madam Minister, we have consulted the documents and are now looking forward to the conclusions you will draw from them. Hopefully they will also be included in the plan. Belgium underwent the UN Universal Periodic Review at the beginning of May, a five-year investigation into the human rights situation in our country. We also received several recommendations on poverty reduction, including six on child poverty. Belgium has already promised to implement it. However, there is one recommendation from Canada to draw up a national action plan against child poverty, which Belgium has not yet accepted, which is still before us for discussion. I would encourage you to consider that recommendation as well. I believe that such an action plan could be an important chapter of the federal poverty reduction plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u71	Madam Minister, not so long ago there was a study by Statbel, in the framework of the EU-SILC survey, which showed that in the group of children living in a household with severe financial difficulties at the age of 14, 30.4% are still living in poverty later. Of those who did not grow up in poverty, this risk is only 7.7 %. So it is incredibly important to focus on combating family poverty. We are therefore particularly pleased that the Europe will approve the child guarantee, because it is important to show our citizens that the EU is more than market and currency and that a social EU is also possible. Green will follow closely the implementation of the child guarantee, the poverty policy plan and the projects that the PPS and the family poverty consultation platforms put forward by the OCMWs. After all, all this can make a big difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u72	Madam President, Minister, over the last few months, funds have been allocated to the OMCWs to support groups that have been in difficulty as a result of the corona crisis, such as grants for young people and students and grants for providing psychological assistance to vulnerable people. Although the support for the OMCWs was and still is much needed, these funds are very specific to certain groups and linked to strict award rules, which are, of course, accompanied by a detailed justification per file. In some cases, OMCWs do signal that the administrative costs for them are sometimes greater than the benefits for clients. Projects are sometimes lost as a result. In addition, we also see that the local need for one OCMW is not the same as for the other. As a result, sustainable local poverty policies, which support all vulnerable groups in a similar or similar way, are made more difficult. Finally, there is still uncertainty as to the maintenance of current support. Even in 2022, many groups will still feel the impact of the corona crisis. If the OMCWs know what measures they can expect and within what long-term vision they fit, they will have more time to incorporate them into their local policies and develop projects around them. I think this is important for all OCMWs, but especially in the smaller municipalities. I have a few questions about that. What resources do you plan to allocate to OMCWs in the context of the corona crisis in 2021? Is it possible to give them a long-term perspective on the support they can expect and the conditions that will be attached to it? Will you plan for 2022? Do you focus on more structural aid over ad hoc aid over the next period? Will you relieve the administrative burden? If not, why not? If so, how? Will you give more space to local OCMWs in the future to spend resources on the basis of local needs and thus less focused on specific groups? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u73	Mrs Reynaert, a number of urgent social measures in the context of the covid crisis run until the end of the year or were recently extended until the end of September. It concerns in particular the 50 euro per month premium, the increased intervention for the GPMI, for young people, for students, and the increased reimbursement of the federal state for the living wage. I understand, of course, the difficulties of the OMCWs in implementing these ad hoc measures, which are only for a few months. No one can anticipate the duration of this crisis. Given the difficulties faced by OCMWs, you know that where possible additional staff costs are provided to support OCMWs in this regard. The OCMWs and their social workers are in the line of fire. They have to face new target groups that end up in poverty, such as self-employed and young people, or who have new needs, such as psychological problems, social isolation and so on. Appropriate support from the federal government is necessary for the OMCWs to cope with the different consequences of the covid crisis. The increased support of a target group does not, of course, mean that other groups are excluded from this support. It is about giving resources to OMCWs to meet the specific needs of the population. We want to simplify procedures. In addition, efforts are being made to simplify administrative procedures. Following a meeting with the OCMW's of five major cities, together with Minister Kitir, a working group on this subject was decided. This group met for the first time last week. You rightly say that a more structural solution is needed. The Federal Plan on Combating Poverty, which I will shortly propose to the government, will include such measures. This obviously requires additional resources from the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u74	Madam Minister, for the sake of clarity, the support given was very much needed and the OCMWs are also very grateful for it. I myself am chairman of a small OCMW and I know that the problem will not be solved if the additional financial support for these vulnerable groups falls. These people's problems remain and we need to work on them. We have mainly worked ad hocly, but we are now looking, also within our local policy plans, at what we can do structurally and at what new problems we need to address. We have seen that digitalisation remains a problem, especially in rural areas. We will probably have to develop a new project for this. I am pleased to hear that you have visited the OCMW's of the big cities but I invite you to come and see a small OCMW. There we have to work with a limited number of people for a vast area, which creates other problems. In our food distribution, for example, we find that we do not easily reach people in our vast area. We are now considering a structural policy to use it in a different way. We also see this in the surrounding municipalities. Staff is our biggest problem. Just as one needs hands on the bed in care, one needs people on the ground to deal with these problems. You have given some financial support to the human resources issue, but that was not enough of course to recruit someone, which would actually be a structural strengthening of our OMCW.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u75	The Pension Office has been doing an excellent job for years. Many of his recommendations are relevant to the progressive reform I want to implement and help the citizens move forward. The annual reports contain a wealth of information. One of the questions is a little special. Ministers normally do not have to deal with the ombudsmen. They must be able to carry out their work independently of the government. Questions should therefore be asked about the special status of the Pension Office, as Mrs Willaert does. Unlike other ombudsmen, this service has a mixed status. Indeed, the limited resources are linked to the Social Security Office for which several ministers are responsible. Although the budgetary framework is very tight, I have been talking to re-evaluate the ombudsmen at this service, which has been underfunded for years. I agree with most of their findings and recommendations. In addition, there should be more options to lodge a complaint, and people who have not yet reached retirement age should also be able to use their services. Whether we need more means of communication will be discussed with the ombudsmen. Additional budgetary measures will be presented at the next budgetary conclave. It is still too early to talk about specific budgets.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u76	In any case, it is good to hear that you have already entered into conversation with this indeed very efficient service. The means of functioning of the ombudsmen should really be allowed to go up. We therefore hope for a significant increase in these substances. Some of these additional resources could be used to communicate the service to the broad population. Initiatives could even be taken to get to the people. This could bring added value in terms of their services, especially for people who are less mature, have no computer or are not digitally involved. They can certainly use extra help with their pension questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u77	That is a hopeful answer, and I am sure that the work provided by the ombudsmen is so important to so many people. They are also very rigorous. Every time they come to speak, we also see how passionate they are about the work they do. You are right, of course, that they have a special statute. It is incredibly important to guarantee that independence. I would add to Mrs Samyn that it is very positive that the talks have started. You also have ears for their punctual proposals. We will follow that up too, but it is already hopeful news and a hopeful answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u78	Debates of the European Parliament 55017686C by Mrs Samyn and 55017702C by Mr Goblet were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u79	Madam President, Mr Van der Donkt, the pensions of local managers are governed by the Law of 8 December 1976. In order to be entitled to a pension as a local mandator, a minimum of 12 months of the exercise of a mandate as a local mandator must be proven. If that is the case, you are entitled to a pension as a local agent for each full month during which the relevant mandate was exercised, i.e. without the need for the mandate to be exercised for each month of the calendar year. You will inform us that the Flemish Government has taken a measure which will terminate current local mandates on 30 October 2024. Taking into account the above, I can confirm that the local managers who can prove at least 12 months of the term of office as a local operator on 30 October 2024 will be entitled to a pension as a local operator for the months of the calendar year 2024 in which they have exercised their mandate as a local operator. Consequently, it can be concluded that there is no problem, which was also the case in 2018 for the local mandates of Wallonia and Brussels. So there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u80	I'm glad to hear that, Madam Secretary. Thank you for your confirmation. There were some questions about the issue, but now there is certainty about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u81	Madam Secretary, the Federal Pension Service no longer sends tax sheets to pensioners. They can consult the chip via the e-box and in principle they will still receive a paper sheet when they made their paper declaration the year before or did not receive a simplified declaration. They can also request them via the online contact form or via the telephone number mentioned on the website. I found that information neatly on the website. In my parents' circle of friends, however, it is a great alarm, as well as with my colleague Joris Vandenbroucke's neighbors. They all let me know that they are no longer getting a paper sheet and that they cannot check their simplified declaration. However, this is important, as mistakes have often been made in the past. Most of them are also not digitally connected, which means that the information that I found on the website and which I have now passed on to them, not directly to them either. In addition, the website states that due to delays at the printing works the tax sheets will be sent later by the Federal Pension Service. Has that been widely communicated? I understand that digitalisation is being used, but I do notice that a number of people are worried, because they have not yet received the tax sheet and do not know what to do to get it. Anyone making the tax return on paper must do so by 30 June 2021. There are delays at the printing works. If the persons concerned make their application by telephone, will they receive their sheet in good time to be able to fill in their tax returns correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u82	Mrs Vanrobaeys, with increasing digitalisation, the physical accessibility of the various pension services is essential for many citizens, especially for vulnerable groups. The principle is digital by default, but not digital only. This principle was also followed when limiting the paper tax sheet. We delete the paper where it is unnecessary, but only in that case. It was expressly ensured that all pensioners who needed a paper sheet to complete their own paper returns would also receive them automatically by post. So they do not have to take any action. The paper sheet is no longer sent to pensioners who receive a proposal for a simplified declaration. For them, the data are already filled in automatically in the declaration. Even those who already use Tax-on-web will not receive a paper sheet. After all, he finds an electronic version of the chip in the application. Pensioners who nevertheless want to have a paper sheet can request them online or by telephone for free. The Federal Pension Service has widely communicated the measures. A comprehensive e-mail was set up to partner institutions, such as municipalities, OCMWs, health insurance funds and trade unions. A press release was also distributed, which was taken over. A specific website was also set up to explain the system. Finally, there is close cooperation with the FPS Finance, so that the contact centres can answer any questions of pensioners as best as possible. If pensioners now apply for a paper sheet, it will in any case be sent in good time. The pensioner receives his paper sheet in the mailbox within three to five working days.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u83	Madam Secretary, thank you for the explanation. My question was about pensioners who are not digitally connected and who want to check their simplified declaration on the basis of their tax sheet. I understand from your reply that you have established a broad communication with the municipalities, the OCMWs, the trade unions and also prepared a press release. Unfortunately, I'm picking up signals that not everyone is aware now. I do my best to provide the information to the people, but it would be good to mention the phone number again, especially now that the deadline for the tax return is approaching. In any case, I am satisfied that I can reassure everyone who contacted me. When they request a tax return, it will be delivered to them within three to five working days, so that they will not exceed the time limit for submitting their tax return.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u84	Madam Secretary, I have only one question for you, but a firm one. It deals with the complex regulation of the cumulation rules of the income replacement allowance (IVT) and the integration meeting (IT) with an income from work and/or a replacement income. In my opinion, this is a serious inactivity trap. This may not only discourage or discourage people from returning to work part-time, but even worse, if they do, it may also have adverse income consequences for those who in good faith resume part-time employment and subsequently become unemployed or disabled and who have to claim a replacement income on the basis of those accumulated employment rights. A person who meets the conditions of loss of self-reliance can also receive an IT in addition to an IVT today depending on his degree of loss of self-reliance and that IT benefit is rightly independent of one's income. If that person does go to work and on that basis acquires the right to a replacement income through unemployment or sickness, then the rules on the possibility of cumulation begin to play with a replacement income. While these rules are still fairly flexible for an employment income, they are very tight for a replacement income. This often means that someone, even with a minimum disability benefit, can lose the right to an IT and immediately all the social benefits associated with it. That is why I have two questions for you. How many people are in a situation today where an IT is combined with an disability benefit or disability benefit? Do you intend to review that cumulation scheme, particularly as regards integration, since the costs of integration are the same for a person with a disability, regardless of the professional status of that person. I hope my questions are clear. I don't think it's an obvious question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u85	My dear colleague, the combination of IT with an income from work or a replacement income, also known as the price of work, is a priority issue. That's what the government is talking about. The price of love is indeed a regulation under the 1987 Law, which needs to be reformed. The aim should be to encourage people to work, not to punish people who are unable or no longer able to work. I also want to prevent people who become unemployed from losing their IT. That is why they are being punished twice, which is completely unjust. I think it is important to point out that 70% of those entitled to this allowance also receive a replacement income. In the last trimester of 2018, 32,280 people combined an invalidity allowance with IT. If we also include other replacement income such as accidents at work, unemployment and pensions, then we were talking about 70,000 people. In view of these figures and the expectations of the sector, I would like to propose a measure that takes account of this reality, but it is now a bit difficult in the government. After all, I also want to take into account those who do not work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u86	Madam Minister, thank you for your hopeful reply, although I have some reservations. It's also an honest answer. I know it is not self-evident, but I sincerely hope that something can change. I get weekly e-mails about this from people who are discouraged and who, despite a limitation, still want to work. I hope that we can land positively, including with this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u87	Madam President, Madam Secretary, the corona crisis is causing more people money problems. Earlier, I questioned you about this, because we saw a new group of people knocking on the door of the OCMWs who had it right before, but now they can't make ends meet. These are families with young children, students, self-employed people and even pensioners. The number of financial aid applications from the OMCWs is increasing, as is the question of debt mediation. Unfortunately, the demand for food aid is still very high. The government recently decided to extend the current aid package, including social aid, until the end of the third quarter. It is clear that covid has not only a heavy health impact, but also a financial impact, unfortunately also in the long term. Madam Secretary, how's your poverty plan coming along? Given the high level of poverty, what initiatives will you take if necessary in the near future? Have you recently been in touch with your colleagues in the Länder on tackling poverty? If so, is a joint plan being worked on? Will proactive research on hidden poverty be used? If so, what will be the working method?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u88	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to return to a written question from me on the use of data by local authorities for the purpose of the COOVID-19 grant. In that context, you referred to the poverty plan you are making. In doing so, you stated that you have the ambition to include a faster and better course of data exchange in the poverty plan as a function of guaranteeing social rights. What we are discussing today on the IGO can also be an example of this. Madam Secretary, what is the state of the poverty plan? When will Parliament be able to consult your poverty plan? In your policy paper, you stated that the poverty plan would be ready by the end of May 2021. That is why I am asking for a state of affairs and more specifically for concrete actions to be included in order to optimise data exchange, in order to better support people in vulnerable social positions. The data flows must, of course, be managed with all due respect for privacy and I acknowledge that there is always a cost involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u89	The figures are indeed worrying, despite the exceptional support measures taken in the fight against the pandemic. I would just like to mention the covid grant of EUR 125 million, the support for young people aged 18 to 25, the grant of EUR 50 and so on. All these measures will run until 31 December or will shortly be submitted for renewal until the end of September. However, we must not only provide emergency aid in times of crisis. Poverty and inequality must also be addressed in a structural way. The coalition agreement has set out an ambitious plan for this purpose which will be submitted to Parliament. That plan will be on the government table before the summer break. The PPS Social Integration is preparing the plan. Soon we will present a preliminary draft to all partners and organisations in the field. Of course, we will also involve the Länder in this consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u90	Madam Secretary, you cannot blame us for our joyful expectation of your poverty plan. Life in poverty is still taboo. Many are waiting for the water to reach them to go to the OCMW. Well, then it's actually too late. We must not forget how many people are ashamed of their situation and what dramas are taking place within the houses. It is not just the socially weak, such as single parents, seniors with a small pension or people with disabilities, who are at greater risk. The corona crisis has made it difficult for self-employed people, just graduates and many young families. Unfortunately, these families are even having a hard time with extra interventions and continue to have a hard time making ends meet at the end of the month. The previous and current governments have made additional budgets available. That's good, but are these budgets being deployed in the most efficient way? Will it also be sufficient to meet the number of questions in the future? I am counting on you to land on a sound and balanced poverty plan as soon as possible. I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u91	Madam Secretary, I understand I have to be patient, but that's perfectly normal. It is very good that the preliminary draft is also discussed with the field and with the Länder. Ecolo-Green believes it is important to focus on better data exchange because it is very important to detect people in poverty. We have to go to those people ourselves. They should not come to the institutions or be helped at that time. We need to track them proactively ourselves. For that, the exchange of data is very important. So I need to be a little more patient so that you can do things right. Well, I guess we'll get back to this. I am very much looking forward to going through the poverty plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u92	Madam Minister, we often get very valuable recommendations from the Federal Ombudsman. That was also the case in 2017. There was then a recommendation on the automatic allocation of the social tariff for gas and electricity for people with disabilities. Following that opinion, I submitted a legislative proposal, which was adopted in 2019, with a view to the automatic allocation of the social tariff from the date of recognition of the disability, with a maximum retroactivity of two years. This has been in place since 15 March 2019. In theory, there is now an automatic and retroactive allocation, but in practice this does not always prove to be the case. It is not possible at DG HAN for technical reasons. To date, DG HAN has issued paper certificates to persons with disabilities, on which those people have to deliver them to their energy supplier themselves. According to the law, this should be done automatically, in a digital way. My questions to you are the following. How did this happen? How do you intend to address this problem and ensure that the allocation of the social tariff is automatic and retrospective? The law is there, but apparently there's a problem at DG HAN. I hope you can solve that problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u93	Mrs Lanjri, my administration DG HAN has reported both the starting date of the right to the allowance and the date of the decision since the start of the electronic data exchange. However, the FPS Economy does not yet process the information in its current application. As a result, the social tariff can only be granted automatically from the date of the decision and not from the effective date of the right to compensation. In order to remedy this problem, a proof on paper must be provided with the social tariff certificate "retroactivity certificate'. This certificate is issued by DG HAN. The problem of the social tariff for gas and electricity lies with the FPS Economy, but I want a solution to this as soon as possible. We have already discussed this point with Minister Tinne Van der Straeten's cabinet. The aim is to include this in the federal action plan for people with disabilities, so that it is written in writing that a solution has to be found by the FPS Economy. At present there are problems in the flow of information between the Crossroads Bank and the database on the basis of which the right is granted: date of recognition versus date of submission of the application. I can confirm today that Minister Van der Straeten, Minister Dermagne and myself are on the same wavelength. The retroactivity of the social tariff must be applied and we are determined to tackle this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u94	Madam Secretary, the problem needs to be addressed anyway. The administration must implement the law that we have passed. You say that you are prepared to discuss this with the ministers concerned, but a solution must be found as soon as possible. You may include this in your action plan, but that does not solve the problem. Actually, this should have been done by now. After all, it's in the law and it's above everything. If there are technical or practical problems between administrations, they must be resolved. There is no need to change the law. Can I ask you to resolve this problem as quickly as possible, in cooperation with the other ministers? This goes against the law that we have passed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, as you say, we agreed in the government agreement that the outdated scheme of the sickness pension for disabled officials will be evaluated in consultation with the social partners and the Länder, especially for officials who are still far from retirement age. This scheme will be brought more into line with the disability scheme and the corresponding reintegration pathways for workers. We will therefore evaluate the pension scheme for civil servants for physical incapacity during this legislative period. By the way, preparations have already started. The cabinet closely follows up on this file. Contacts have already been made with the Minister of Civil Service, Mrs De Sutter. In close cooperation with the administration and the Länder, we will examine in detail all the slopes of this dossier. I would also like to stress that social dialogue will be very important here. After all, we must not make the same mistakes as in the past. I will certainly keep you informed about the further developments in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u96	Madam Minister, unlike earlier, you have expressed a great deal in the future. You're working on it, I understand. You will work on it, and that is good, because it will be necessary. If I understand correctly, the social partners have not yet been ordered to do so. I'm gonna put this file back in its place for two months, or is that too soon? It'll be before September. There's a lot to be done in September. I'll get back to you then. I remember that you will keep me informed, or Parliament will keep me informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u97	Madam President, Minister, the health crisis we are experiencing seems to have aggravated the number of cases of non-use of social rights. On the one hand, the closure of social services and administrations, as well as the acceleration of digitisation and the dematerialization of many procedures, have reinforced the gap between those who master technological tools and those who suffer from the digital divide. The digitalisation of services has thus increased the exclusion of these services and increased socio-economic inequalities in our society. On the other hand, a recent study carried out by IWEPS highlights a "very high risk of non-use of social rights for people who are unfamiliar with services and administrations, due in particular to the need for time to accept their new situation and dare to ask for help". Minister, public services play an important role in addressing non-recourse situations. The humane reception of people, the simplification and cooperation of all the actors concerned are essential in order to achieve an effective granting of the social rights of people in poverty. Does an assessment of the impact of this non-use of social rights during the crisis have or will it be carried out? Have any initiatives been put in place to limit the non-use of the rights of newly weakened audiences?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u98	Madam Member, the question you are asking is essential for people and the effectiveness of social rights. Non-use of rights undermines the living together and the credibility of our institutions, politics and democracy. If a right is inscribed in a text, it is our duty that it be effective. Otherwise, the Constitution and laws are no longer respected. This is a matter that has existed for many years, which has been exacerbated by the health crisis, and which must now be seriously addressed, through a political vision commensurate with the issues at stake. Already in 2016, the Brussels-Capital Observatory of Health and Social Affairs had submitted an excellent report on non-use of rights and social protection, highlighting among other things the challenges of digitalisation. The same report has just emerged today to highlight the many problems that exist. Yes, an assessment of the non-use of disability rights is under way, given the decrease in the number of applications submitted in 2020. As far as pensions are concerned, accessibility is also analysed in order to have a service not digital only. In my plan to combat poverty, one of the areas of work will be precisely the non-use of social rights, compounded by the digital divide. The lines of the report, where they make sense for the specificities of my skills, will be integrated into the plan. There are several aspects and dimensions of non-use. I will choose the most ambitious options to combat this phenomenon far more important than fraud. The organisational arrangements of the administrations cannot be a barrier to access to social rights. Bureaucratisation, administration of evidence, lengthening of deadlines, reorientation, dilution of responsibilities: I do not want any more. The regulatory question and the overly taunted interpretations of the texts, for example in the criteria of selectivity of benefits, but also in the socio-administrative statutes, will have to be addressed. Real simplification will be necessary, not for people to enter boxes, but for the cells to adapt to people and their living situations. One of the unknown aspects is the question of self-referral. An administration may take a situation into its own hands in order to deal with it and to grant the social rights to which persons are entitled. This is a principle that is contained in the CPAS Act and could be extended to other areas. The SPP Social Integration and the SPF Social Security also work on a non-recourse plan. Non-use of rights will be an integral part of the administrative contracts of my administrations, and I would ask my colleagues to include this dimension in the administrative contracts for which they are responsible. As part of the recovery plan, I also asked the European Commission for resources to tackle the digital divide. Part of these means will be linked to the issue of non-use of social rights related to digitalisation. I got 30 million euros. Innovation must be at the service of citizens and thought in such a way that societies are inclusive and make social rights effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u99	Minister, thank you for this rather complex response. It is true that the acquisition of social rights can be a real journey for the combatant, as you said. Sometimes people get completely lost in the complexity not only of information but also of administrative procedures because, as you said, the criteria are increasingly demanding and complicate the demand, creating additional delays. It is also true that the digital divide leads to an increase in the risk of precarisation of a population that is already fragile today and that is even more so because it has been hit by this crisis. There is also a high risk of disappearance, statistical and social invisibilisation of the citizen. I note, however, that you are making this a priority and that you have, in particular under the recovery plan, obtained additional resources of EUR 30 million. We really need to stress that. I really liked your phrase "boxes have to adapt to people and not the other way around". I will allow myself to return to you, but I am pleased with your perspective and your response, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic498x.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, given the time and the fact that, on the last questions – particularly on the 33rd – there were still some minor adjustments to be made, since we are already seeing each other in 15 days, I propose to postpone to the next session questions Nos 55018412C, 55018414C, 55018418C and 55018419C by Mrs Willaert, as well as questions Nos 55018476C and 55018478C by Mrs De Jonge.
