ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to start immediately, because the Minister only has time until 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u2	Some of the questions are addressed to Minister Khattabi, but ministers have agreed that Minister Van Quickenborne will answer all these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I did indeed address two oral questions to Minister Khattabi, but they were both referred to you. Minister, Greenpeace reported at the end of last month that a 25-tonne robot was stuck on the ocean floor in a deep-sea mining test. It concerns the tubers collector Patania II of the Belgian Global Sea Mineral Resources, GSR, a subsidiary of DEME. Deme lost contact with the robot, which was at least 4 kilometers deep. This example shows once again that deep-sea mining is far too risky. However, the deep-sea mining industry claims to be ready for exploitation, but who believes that? My position is clear, I have already given it to you on several occasions. Deep sea mining is a destructive industry, which we urgently need to stop. We do not know much about the deep sea and the deep sea floor, but one thing is certain: exploitation of the deep sea floor will cause irreparable damage to a unique and fragile ecosystem. The deep sea may never recover from it. Scientists have already shown this clearly. That is why we are calling for the deep sea to be protected and for this government to stop supporting GSR for deep-sea mining. We are not alone with that view. Recently, 30 leading scientists sent an open letter asking for protection of the deep sea. I am therefore very pleased that Greenpeace is taking action against deep-sea mining, with the Rainbow Warrior ship in the Pacific and I fully support Greenpeace and the other NGOs in their fight against deep-sea mining. I am grateful that environmental organisations and local NGOs continue to put this issue on the agenda. Minister, what do you think of these deep-sea mining tests? Can you tell me more about those failed deep-sea mining tests? What happens if a test like that fails? The Belgian government sponsored GSR in its application for an operating licence with the International Seabed Authority. If there is any damage in carrying out these deep-sea mining tests, who is responsible for that? Has an analysis been made in advance of the legal risks incurred by the Belgian State in these deep-sea mining tests? How are Secretary Khattabi and you involved in these deep-sea mining tests? Did you or anyone else in the federal government have to authorize GSR for these tests? In this government's counter-resolution on deep-sea mining tests, which came up on my proposal, the government explicitly asked for the precautionary principle to continue to be applied. I thought Minister Khattabi, as Minister for the Environment, was responsible for protecting biodiversity in international waters. That is why I had asked her my question. Since you are competent for the North Sea, you are also responsible for maintaining the precautionary principle in deep sea mining. What steps have you taken? Will the government sponsor GSR on an application for an operating permit?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u4	Minister, the issue of deep-sea mining has always been dealt with in the past by the Minister or Secretary of State responsible for the North Sea. I therefore put my question to you because, as far as I am concerned, you are competent, together with Minister Dermagne. The company GSR, a subsidiary of DEME, announced on 22 April that it had reached a new milestone for modern technology during a scientific trial and environmental test. A deep water robot collected polymetal lumps during a test in the Pacific. Very important, Minister, is that the trial was followed by scientists from the JPI Oceans Project MiningImpact. They would carry out an independent scientific monitoring around this test. The findings of this integrated impact analysis will apparently be converted into recommendations for improved environmental standards and guidelines of the Mining Code. It is still being prepared by the International Seabed Authority. In any event, the data and samples collected during the test will provide more insight into the environmental impacts. In a press release, GSR states that it is aware that it must first be clearly demonstrated that such activities can be managed in such a way as to ensure effective protection of the marine environment. We know that the federal government is funding partner of MiningImpact through the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO). So my judgment is much milder than that of my colleague Daems. I have no destructive judgment on it, and I feel that you will not have it in your reply. Can you explain which recommendations of the integrated impact analysis have been or are being converted into recommendations for possible improvements in environmental standards and guidelines for the development of that code? What is the state of play regarding the revision or updating of the relevant Belgian legislation announced in your policy paper, of course in co-authorship with the FPS Economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u5	Mr. Minister, in early April 2021 there was an exchange of letters between representatives of Greenpeace and the DEME Global Sea Mineral Resources (GSR) subsidiary regarding the deep seabed mining trials envisaged by the latter. Minister, I come directly to my questions. Can we have your feedback and your opinion on it? Have any contacts been made with the representatives of the subsidiary GSR? If so, can we obtain information in this regard? On 28 January 2021 the motion for a resolution on seabed mining was adopted by Parliament. One of the requests concerns support for basic scientific research and data collection with a view to deepening deep seabed knowledge and protecting existing marine ecosystems. Can you inform us of any initiatives taken in this direction? Since this point was raised during the exchange of letters mentioned, can we have your feedback on the arguments put forward? Can we get your point of view on compliance with the precautionary principle in this exchange? Minister, you outlined in your policy note your plan to review existing legislation on high seas mining and "to develop a clear and binding regulatory framework for high seas mining, including the precautionary principle". What is the status of this project? You also announced that you would take the necessary measures at the international level to protect the integrity of the seabed. Can we obtain information in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u6	Minister, the evaluation of existing legislation on deep-sea mining was already under way in the previous legislature. A resolution on this issue was adopted in the Chamber at the end of 2020. I co-signed that, too. Our group fully supported this resolution. There are a number of questions in it for the government. I have listed them in my question and will not repeat them here. Mr Senesael has just put forward a number of important principles. Minister, together with the Minister for Economic Affairs, you are seeking to establish a clear and binding regulatory framework for the exploitation of the deep seas. In this context, in addition to strict environmental standards, the precautionary principle and the polluter pays principle will be included. The Belgian framework is complementary to the international framework. I have two questions about this. How are you and your colleague doing? When do you intend to propose a first draft to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u7	Mr Minister, the situation is clearly outlined, so I shall now turn to the questions. What is the state of play of the international regulations on deep-sea mining and what role does Belgium play today? Where are you on the drafting of a regulatory framework for the Belgian law on deep-sea mining in consultation with the Minister for Economic Affairs, as you also mentioned in your policy statement? Are there plans for crisis situations, such as a few days ago, in the absence of contact with the robot? If they don't exist, are they being developed? How does the government intend to further support and shape research on the protection of maritime ecosystems, with the aim of having a minimal impact on these ecosystems?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u8	Minister, the existing legislation on deep-sea mining was reviewed in the previous legislature. Your policy paper included that you and the Minister of Economy will review this legislation in order to establish a clear and binding regulatory framework for deep-sea mining. It is therefore important that we continue to focus on scientific data collection and research.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u9	Mr President, I will answer the many questions on this important subject in detail. First of all, I would like to stress that, as Minister for the North Sea, I am responsible for the marine environment, both in the North Sea and on the high seas. There is therefore no discussion of competence, and Mrs Khattabi has given me very collegial answers. Our knowledge of the sea bottom in the deep sea is still not sufficiently developed and very incomplete. That is why this government naturally adheres to the resolution adopted on 19 January. Parliament called on the government to support basic scientific research and data collection to promote deep-sea knowledge and to protect existing marine ecosystems. The deep seabed mining tests carried out by the Belgian company Global Sea Mineral Resources (GSR), in the presence of independent scientists, will provide very important information in this context which will partially fill the gaps in knowledge. Neither myself nor my colleagues in the federal government have had to allow the tests to be carried out, but colleagues Ingels and Dierick, through science policy, the federal government supports the independent scientific research conducted on deep-sea mining. Several scientists from our federal scientific institutions are also involved. Mrs Dierick, one of the initiatives I will take is to bring the parties concerned to the table. In addition to the legislative part, it is crucial that we have a clear view of all the studies carried out in this context. We also need to find out which knowledge gaps are still present and how we can find answers. I want to do this together with the stakeholders, assisted by independent scientists. You're talking about a failed test. It is true that the connection between the research vessel, the Patania II and the mother ship has been interrupted for some time, but I doubt whether this defect has resulted in the test failing. I am therefore interested, like you and many colleagues here, in the reports that will be published by both the GSR and the independent scientists. The Rainbow Warrior of Greenpeace was also present in the region. I have no doubt that they too will make their findings known. On the basis of these reports, we will be able to judge whether or not the tests have failed. To that end, the answers to Mrs Daems' first question, Mrs Ingels' fifth question, Mrs Dierick's 1 and 2 questions and Mrs de Laveleye's first question. I will now answer Mrs de Laveleye's third question and Mrs Daems' second question. The application of the precautionary principle is precisely why this test could take place. This is a very small-scale test which will contribute to our knowledge of the deep sea. This knowledge is essential for determining the environmental conditions to be met in order to be able to exploit. Among other things, it is up to these conditions that the Belgian Government will review any future applications for sponsorship contracts for exploitation before taking a decision. Your questions, ladies Daems and Laveleye, as to whether this government will sponsor GSR when applying for an operating licence are premature. We need to measure to know before we work on the legislative framework, especially on this issue, because we need to make quick decisions. I come to Mrs Daems' third question. According to international regulations, Belgium as a sponsor State is responsible for the contracting party's compliance with the rules. In concrete terms, this means that Belgium, our country, must not carry out these obligations itself, but must take all necessary and appropriate measures to ensure that GSR complies with its obligations. If that is the case, our country is not liable for any damage that would occur to the marine environment. We are currently working on a review of the legislation, as you know, and we also need to develop the necessary guarantees regarding a possible exploitation phase. An analysis of the legal risks will be included. The recent deep-sea mining tests fit within the execution of the exploration contract. They are small-scale and involve little or no risk of environmental damage in an area that is two and a half times larger than our country. Mrs. Ingels, you asked me if I was planning on drawing up road maps. As I said, the Mining Code is being negotiated within the ISA authority. One of its articles requires the operator to draw up an emergency response and contingency plan and to provide the necessary financial and technical resources for that purpose. A draft standard guidelines for the preparatory implementation of that plan has already been prepared within the ISA and submitted to the public for consultation. The federal government will, of course, participate in this consultation and will also be informed about its results. At the moment, it is therefore not desirable to draw up a map of our own. Mrs Daems, in addition to supporting fundamental scientific research, Parliament called on the government to continue to respect environmental legislation and the precautionary principle in order to safeguard the biodiversity of unique marine ecosystems when drawing up possible operating rules on deep-sea mining. This was requested in part 2 of the resolution. As Minister responsible for the marine environment, I have repeatedly confirmed in this committee that I will incorporate the basic principles, such as the precautionary principle and the polluter pays principle, into the new legislation. This legislation will not only implement the international regulations of the Seabed Authority in Belgian law, it will also complement it where necessary, in order to ensure that the highest environmental standards are achieved and the necessary measures are taken to prevent damage to the environment. In this way, Belgium wants to strengthen its ambitious ocean policy in line with the 30x30 objective of the Blue Leaders initiative. The review process itself is a participatory and transparent process, involving all interested parties. The federal government is also committed to continuing to finance scientific work, such as MiningImpact. MiningImpact carries out important and independent additional research into the potential effects of deep-sea mining on the marine environment. This project is financed by the BELSPO, among other things. I will not therefore demand that such tests be stopped. Mrs Daems, with regard to your fifth question, it is clear that I am involved in the revision of Belgian legislation. This review is, by the way, a joint project of the Minister for Economic Affairs and myself. Mr Ravyts, as regards your first question, it is still too early to draw specific conclusions as the tests have been carried out very recently. However, I can tell you that its results will be made public, just as they have been in the past for the prior environmental impact analysis. I shall now turn to Mr Ravyts' second question, Mr Pillen's first and second questions, Mrs Ingels' third question and Mrs de Laveleye's second question. The revision of the legislation on deep-sea mining, a process in which I work together with Mr Dermagne, is at an advanced stage. The basic text is ready, but the legal aspects of the explanatory memorandum are still being worked on. A further consultation with the organisations concerned will then take place. I would also like to point out that I have already had personal contact with the parties involved. The purpose is for Parliament to deal with this bill before the end of the year. Mr Senesael, there has indeed been an exchange of letters between Greenpeace and GSR concerning the trials planned in the Pacific. I have been informed of this myself by e-mail. On the other hand, I have heard the views of both sides on deep seabed mining. Unfortunately, both sides agreed not to agree:they agree to disagree. However, if we are to achieve a transparent and clear legislative framework on seabed mining, we must continue the dialogue and not stand by each other. So I explicitly asked the two parties to sit around the table in my presence to discuss it. My staff and services are currently preparing for this meeting. As an answer to your second question, I refer you to the answer to Mrs Daems' question. Briefly, Parliament called on the federal government to support basic scientific research. We will therefore continue to commit to funding scientific projects such as MiningImpact. I am also convinced that we need this research to be able to make sound and scientifically sound decisions. In addition, this research will ensure Belgium's participation in international discussions, and more specifically within the International Seabed Authority. This will enable us to approach this topic with full knowledge and listening to others. As far as your third question is concerned, since I am not the recipient of this correspondence, it is not for me to comment on this subject. However, I repeat that the precautionary principle will be one of the basic principles of the new legislation. With respect to your fourth question, and given my answer to Ms. Daems, the purpose is to bring the bill before Parliament before the end of this year. To your fifth question, to Mrs Ingels' first and second questions and to Mrs Dierick's third question, I can answer the following. It concerns the national framework role of Belgium. The development of the regulatory framework at international level is still under way, the famous Mining Code. In the negotiations, Belgium is pursuing the highest possible environmental standards. Where a Belgian company submits an application to the international seabed authority to obtain an operating contract, the application must be accompanied by several documents enabling the authority to approve or reject the application. This process consists of a public consultation, an assessment and opinion of the Legal and Technical Committee of the Seabed Authority and possible final approval by the Authority's Council. As regards the approval process, Belgium has drawn up a proposal providing for an evaluation and an opinion of independent experts, which will run in parallel with the public consultation. This approach will make it possible to make informed decisions, especially with a view to protecting the marine environment. In addition, we are asking for the legal and technical committee to be supplemented by marine biologists and environmental scientists. Moreover, in 2023, 2025 or 2026, Belgium will have a seat on the board of the International Seabed Authority, the body where the main negotiations on the subject take place. It is within this board that any operating contracts are approved and currently under negotiation on the famous Mining Code. Here, too, our country will make every effort to achieve the highest possible environmental standards and argue that the precautionary principle should be at the heart of further developing the rules for deep-sea mining. The proposal already presented by the independent experts will also be placed on the agenda in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As far as deep-sea mining is concerned, I do not think the government is consistent. You always position yourself as a blue leader and international leader in the protection of the oceans and keep repeating that you are always applying the precautionary principle. That will also be included in the new legislation, you have just stated. But if you apply the precautionary principle, you will not allow deep-sea mining, because exploitation of the deep-sea floor is inevitably accompanied by permanent and irreparable damage. Minister, once again we ask you to listen to the views of the scientists in order to stop deep-sea mining and, therefore, to the hunger for money of the world's big dreary multinationals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. I am a man of dialogue and not of polarization, however strange that may sound in these times. We expressly approved the majority resolution with the Flemish interest, because we felt that it was a balanced approach. There is indeed an incomplete knowledge of the seabed, so scientific research is needed. That is precisely what this is all about when it comes to guiding the experiment. You have also referred to Mining Impact through the Science Policy FPS.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u12	Mr Minister, thank you for these points of answer and thank you for proposing you as a proven mediator for the continuation of the GSR-Greenpeace dialogue. This dialogue is crucial and the meeting you have scheduled is crucial to finding solutions that are reasonably suited to the situation. I am pleased and pleased with the progress of the new legislation outlined in your policy note and which you respect. It's rare enough to be raised. I am also pleased to hear that the precautionary principle is an essential element in your view to ensure the preservation of biodiversity and the protection of existing marine ecosystems. Finally, I welcome the fact that this upcoming legislation could be submitted to our Parliament before the end of this year. I hope that all this bodes well for the continuation of our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. Important issues need to be addressed. It is logical that some Members should refer to the debate on the resolution in committee a few months ago, but we have heard here, above all, a minister who will deal with the questions raised in the resolution. Before the end of the year, you will give us more news.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u14	Thank you very much, Minister, for the very comprehensive answer. I can assure you that other committees do not always respond in this way, so I was very impressed. By the way, I salute our former colleague, Mr Delvaux. I look forward to the results of the study and to the next steps in the legislative work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u15	Minister, from your very comprehensive answer, I remember that you are working hard on the implementation of the resolution and that the precautionary principle is sacred to you too. You confirm that fundamental research is supported and that you bring different people to the table, including scientists. To find out if the test was successful, we'll have to wait for the reports. The debate will undoubtedly continue. We are particularly looking forward to your initiative to bring new legislation to Parliament by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u16	Minister, first of all, let me ask myself naively: when you talk about the end of the year, it is the end of 2021 and not the end of the school year. Therefore, it leaves us a few more months to deepen the debate. Thank you for your answer, which covers many elements. It is your concern to keep the parliamentary resolution as a compass of your political work. However, I would like to point out one thing: there are two very different perceptions of the precautionary principle around the table that you are chairing. There is, on the one hand, the private sector, which evokes economic interests, and that is normal because it is its nature; it is there to make profit. On the other hand, there is the environmental sector and the academic sector, which ask us to be extremely careful. You can see that your role is not easy to play. I would like to encourage you to understand the precautionary principle in the strict sense. That is what we, as ecologists, stressed in the resolution. On the other hand, I have no doubt that you will remain fully attentive to the economic dimension of this excessively complex issue, which must not take precedence over the environmental dimension. Ensuring that the oceans remain healthy is crucial to managing our climate. That future is in your hands, Minister, and you have our full support in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u17	Mr President, Minister, published in the journal Nature on March 17, the study "Protecting the global ocean for biodiversity, food and climate" reveals that human activities in the deep seabed – and in particular trawling or industrial scraping – in addition to being a real danger to biodiversity, cause a release of CO2 emissions that is significantly similar to that caused by the air sector. Moreover, the study indicates that "marine protected areas are an effective tool for restoring ocean biodiversity and ecosystem services", but that "only 2.7 per cent of the ocean is currently highly protected". The practice of trawling is strongly established in the North Sea and, on the Belgian side, is subject to significant human activity (including fishing, navigation, sand and gravel extraction). At present, our country is home to about 10 protected areas, although all areas are exposed to human activities, including shipping, fishing, dredging and waste water disposal. Minister, we do not fail to believe that you will have read the study referred to here. Could we know your impression about him? In your policy note, you stressed that, in order to fulfil Belgium's commitment to protect 30% of the oceans in 2030, "a new agreement on biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction must be concluded", as it would allow the creation of marine protected areas. You added that this agreement "must be included in the new Convention on Diversity". Can we obtain information on the status and timing of these projects? Can initiatives to increase Belgian marine protected areas be envisaged, as well as initiatives to ensure that protected areas are fully protected from harmful human activities? Also in your policy note, you stressed that you wanted to review the legislation on high seas mining with the Minister of Economy. Can we get information on this? Finally, can you inform us about the initiatives taken or envisaged by Belgium in relation to the protection of the seabed at the international level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the study to which you refer confirms the importance of marine protected areas not only for the protection of ecosystem biodiversity but also as a protection against climate change. As John Kerry said, ocean is equivalent to climate, climate is equivalent to ocean. Indeed, the ocean plays an essential role in combating the negative effects of climate change, but it will only be able to play this role if it has jurisdiction. It is therefore extremely important that we take measures to protect the ocean. In order to protect 30% by 2023, two major objectives must be achieved. First, at the next COP in autumn 2021 in China, the global biodiversity framework must accept a 30% target for ocean protection by 2030. In addition, negotiations on the new Convention on Biodiversity outside national jurisdictions, i.e. the "Biodiversity Beyond National Jurisdiction" process, must be finalized. It is in this Convention that the mechanism for the creation of marine protected areas beyond national jurisdiction must be established. Currently, there is no globally accepted process of designation of holistic marine protected areas, making it difficult to protect 30 per cent of the marine environment on the high seas. Due to the Corona measures, the organisation of the fourth and last Intergovernmental Conference scheduled for April 2020 has been postponed to a later date. However, Belgium maintains this issue at the forefront of the international political agenda by organising monthly online dialogues on the high seas, with Costa Rica, Monaco and a number of NGOs. These dialogues should enable us to be better prepared to participate in the Fourth Intergovernmental Conference. It is to these two objectives that Belgium works in collaboration with the Blue Leaders. Moreover, we want this protection not only to be quantitative but also to be qualitative. So we do not want what is called paper parks, but highly protected areas with measurable indicators and strong monitoring. As Minister of the North Sea, I have already participated in various online events, including the Ocean-Climate Ambition Summit organized by John Kerry, President Biden's special envoy for climate. At this event, I tried to convince other ministers, heads of state and heads of government to join the Blue Leaders. In the Belgian part of the North Sea, from the low water line, for which I am responsible and competent as federal minister, the five marine protected areas have already been designated, namely three areas covered by the Birds Directive and two areas covered by the Habitat Directive. These areas are included in the marine spatial planning plan 2020-2026 and cover 37% or more than one third of the total area of the Belgian part of the North Sea. In order to ensure effective protection of these areas, in 2018 my predecessor adopted management plans that included all the protection measures. One of these measures concerns the effective implementation of the appropriate evaluation. This assessment must be carried out for all activities likely to have an impact on protected areas, as required by the European Habitat Directive. Only those activities for which the evaluation shows that there are little – or no – significant negative effects can occur. These activities do not affect the natural characteristics of the protected area. In addition, measures are being taken to limit the impact of bottom trawling in certain areas. I would like to refer here to the answer I will give to Mr Ravyt's question on bottom trawling. Finally, as I have already mentioned, the revision of Belgian legislation on deep-sea mining is at an advanced stage. Currently, legislative aspects are being developed, after which a consultation with interested organisations will be organised. The target is set before the end of 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u19	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your responses. It is a pleasure to see that each issue has been taken up and analysed. I will highlight three elements. First of all, the summary. Secondly, compliance with your policy note with the highly protected areas and the five protected areas which, as mentioned, represent 37% of the total area of the Belgian part of the North Sea. This is a beautiful and significant step forward. Finally, the key objectives to be met at the next COP are the protection of 30% of the oceans by 2030 and the conclusion of the BBNJ agreement. I will also note that you and your services keep in mind the essential role that the ocean plays in all the climatic dimensions to meet the various mentions that your general policy note contains.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u20	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, the question is a bit old. She was first sent to Mrs Khattabi with those of other colleagues before being sent home. I'm sorry about the timing. We have already received a first part of the response from Minister Khattabi. In addition, you yourself have provided answers to the previous questions. I therefore refer to my question as filed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u21	So here are my questions: 1. What is the status of the protection of the oceans in the context of the Belgian preparation of Cop 15 on biodiversity?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u22	Mr President, this question also refers to this famous study by Nature magazine. Mrs de Laveleye, what you are saying is correct: only a small percentage of the area of the oceans is currently adequately protected, while the oceans play a very important role. Nevertheless, I note that there is a gradual change and many countries, including Belgium, have the ambition to increase this percentage significantly. At the national level, no less than 37% of the Belgian part of the North Sea has been designated and at the international level, we are working to protect at least 30% of the oceans by 2030 by establishing a global network of highly or fully protected marine areas. We do not do it alone, we are part of the Blue Leaders, an alliance of countries that aim to achieve the 30x30 goal. I will elaborate further on this initiative in the answer to Mr Ravyts' question on the Blue Leaders. Since the end of last year, I have actively campaigned to expand the alliance. As part of the preparation of the COP on biodiversity, Belgium is organizing dialogues on the high seas treaty in collaboration with other authorities in order to continue to include ocean protection in policy priorities. The first official online COP15 preparation will take place this month. The coordinated Belgian position on the achievement of the 30x30 objective will be recalled in this context. With regard to your second question, at the international level, we plead for highly protected or fully protected marine areas. "Fortly protected" means that only slightly extractive activities such as small-scale fishing are allowed and "fully protected" means that no extractive or destructive activities are allowed. To the extent that deep seabed exploration is an extractive activity, it also includes high-seas mining. At the national level, there are extractive activities such as bottom trawling that disrupt the seabed. This is the most widely used fishing technique in the Belgian part of the North Sea and has a significant impact on the integrity of the seabed and on species and habitats. Belgium must take the necessary measures to achieve a favourable conservation status of marine habitats and a good ecological status. To this end, it is necessary to limit the impact of bottom fishing in certain areas. Actions are also being taken in this area, and I will provide more details in my answers to the questions of colleagues Pillen, Verduyckt and Ravyt, who will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will, of course, listen to the additional information you will bring earlier. As I explained, we are concerned to see you continue your efforts to be exemplary at the international level and to protect the oceans, which are essential to our climate and our biodiversity. You have our support in your efforts to effectively protect the North Sea and, more broadly, our oceans.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u24	Minister, the various questions of this afternoon are in line with each other. Bottom-to-bottom fishing, including trawler boats carrying a net over the seabed to catch shrimps, cod, shellfish, etc., could not only disrupt marine soil, but would cause a major CO2 emission worldwide by releasing it from sea-bed sediments. The technique has been criticised for a long time for the lack of selectivity and the impact on the ecosystems of the seabed. However, the sector argues that pelagic fishing gear is constantly being improved to ensure responsible and sustainable fishing. This prevents the capture of unwanted species or undersized young fish. What is the status of bottom-to-bottom fishing with trawling boats in Belgian territorial waters? What is the arrangement regarding zoning in the marine spatial plan? Is this a subject that will be discussed during the future evaluation of the current marine spatial plan? In fact, that evaluation is announced in your policy plan. What is the overarching European and global legislation in this area? What is the attitude of the Minister and, therefore, of Belgium to this land-bearing fisheries in difficult discussions in international fora?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u25	Minister, the Marine Spatial Plan provides for three areas in which soil protection measures can be taken. The procedure for this is laid down in the Common Fisheries Policy and requires close cooperation with Flanders, our neighbours Netherlands, France and Germany, and the European Commission. The policy paper sets out the ambition to reach an agreement with Flanders in 2021 on a draft fisheries measure in the Belgian North Sea based on the results of the scientific studies. Then there will be negotiations with neighbouring countries and the outcome of these negotiations will eventually have to be endorsed by Europe. What is the state of play regarding the implementation of the marine spatial plan? What stage of work have we reached at the moment? Are you consulting with the sector on this, because that is of course extremely important?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u26	I do not see Mr Verduyckt, so I suggest you start with the answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u27	Soil-moving trawl or beam trawl fisheries remain the most widely used fishing technique in the Belgian part of the North Sea. This fishing technique has an important impact on soil integrity and on the species and habitats present on that soil. Mr Pillen, you are right to refer to Belgium's obligation to take the necessary measures to achieve a favourable conservation status for marine habitats and to achieve good environmental status. This requires limiting the impact of this type of fishing in certain areas. The previous Marine Spatial Plan, which was valid from 2014 to 2020, already took the necessary steps to identify certain areas in which fishing would be restricted or prohibited. In fact, an agreement was reached between Belgium, the Netherlands, France, the United Kingdom, Germany and Denmark, but the so-called joint declaration was not endorsed by the European Parliament. During the preparation of the current marine spatial plan, a different approach was chosen. This time, three larger search areas were defined on the basis of the scientific knowledge at the time about the biological value of the areas. Within these zones, based on scientific research, land integrity zones will be identified which are the most valuable to protect. With regard to Mr Pill's second question, the scientific research carried out by the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences and the Institute of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food Research is in full swing. The results are expected by summer 2021. As far as Mr Pill's third question is concerned, my services will consult with all interested parties in the next step in order to agree on the necessary rules in these areas. It goes without saying that both the Flemish Region and the fisheries sector are closely involved. In order to ensure that they also apply to fishermen from other Member States, the zones should then be ratified through the applicable European procedures. We strongly believe that these areas will be able to be introduced within the current MRP. With regard to Mr Ravyts' second question, fisheries legislation is mainly determined at European level, in particular in the European Union's Common Fisheries Policy. The aim of this policy is to ensure a sustainable fisheries sector and to ensure stable incomes and employment for fishermen. The implementation of the policy falls within the competence of the Regions. Fishing in international waters is regulated by the Regional Fisheries Management Organisations, where the European Commission speaks on behalf of the Member States. Belgium can provide input through the Council working group Fish, in which the Flemish fisheries attaché is located. With regard to questions concerning our attitude to international fora, I am of course referring again to our role as Blue Leader.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u28	In the meantime, I see Mr Verduyckt. The Minister has already replied, but I will give you the floor immediately for your reply. First in order is colleague Ravyts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u29	Mr President, I see that Mr Verduyckt is here. I hadn't answered his question yet. I'll do that briefly, if I may.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u30	Then he can indeed hear and replicate it with knowledge of the facts. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u31	Mr Verduyckt, you ask me if we can put more pressure on these techniques through better information to the consumer. Personally, I am not convinced that this is the way we achieve the desired results, at least not the only way. What I truly believe in is research and innovation. Basic research is needed to determine through which adjustments the impact of certain fishing techniques can be limited or excluded. Innovation can also lead to new fishing techniques that are less harmful or not harmful. It is to that that we must pay our attention. For the rest, I would like to refer you to my colleagues in the Flemish government under whose jurisdiction this is to be done. So far all the answers to all the questions that were asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u32	Mr Verduyckt, you may begin with your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u33	Mr Minister, allow me to take the last part of your answer. I have already spoken about this with Secretary of State De Bleeker. I think it is extremely important that consumers are well informed. More and more people in this country want to make sustainable choices. For this, it is necessary to know where a product comes from or what happened to that product. Mrs De Bleeker was enthusiastic about a system such as the ecoscore, as Colruyt, for example. Actually, I was thinking about that road. It's a thought exercise I'd like to give you. I hear you saying that you are not entirely convinced, but perhaps it would be useful to look at that further. A product passport is being discussed at European level. Informing consumers properly is certainly a trend. In this way they can decide for themselves what they do with that information and what products they buy or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u34	Minister, I understand that scientific research into the three search areas of the MRP is ongoing. We'll follow up on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. As in the debate on deep-sea mining, the balance between the environment on the one hand and the fact that fishing in our country is still an important economic actor on the other. I therefore believe, as with deep-sea mining, that your approach is the right one: first scientific research, then dialogue with Flanders and with the sector. So I think we're on the right path.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u36	Minister, you know that a considerable number of young grey seals have been stranded in recent times. Often they have already died. It would often also be about unintentional by-catch by fishing with driftnets or gillnets, i.e. nets lying on the bottom. This type of fishing is particularly popular in the north of France. In our coastal waters, it would be poorly skilled. In principle, French fishermen do not have access to our 12 mile zone. I am well aware that the incidental catch cannot be regarded as an offence. What is necessary, however, is the notification of by-catch to the government if it takes place. Is that being followed very closely? I don't think so. In what sense can such incidental catches be problematic in the context of our obligations under the European Habitats Directive and the Maritime Strategy Framework Directive? What remedies can you propose, if necessary in cooperation with the competent Flemish minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u37	Thank you, Mr Ravyts, for your questions. Under the European Habitats Directive there are two types of seals in Belgian seawater for which protected areas must be designated. It's about the regular and the grey seal. Belgium, in implementation of the Directive in the Natura 2000 area, has identified the Flemish banks for the protection of certain habitats. Given the size of the area, it is also very valuable for the protection of seals. Belgium is therefore obliged to take protective measures where possible. Measures have already been taken in the past concerning the use of certain nets in recreational fishing at sea and adjacent to the beach. In implementation of the Maritime Strategy Framework Directive, Belgium also has an obligation to ensure that incidental by-catches of marine mammals are reduced. The obligation applies to both by-catch of porpoises and seals. On the basis of the current figures from the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences, given the still growing population of grey seals in the southern North Sea, occasional catches in Belgian waters or by Belgian fishermen are not problematic in the context of our European obligation to protect species. In connection with your second question, the Royal Institute has established that there are several possible causes of death: natural death or incidental by-catch in professional or recreational fisheries. The high number of co-captured animals this spring is a new phenomenon caused by the very high numbers of grey seals born in colonies in the southeast of England. After weeping, many of these young animals travel to the southern North Sea, so they end up in our waters. As far as incidental by-catches are concerned, I have taken the initiative to bring together the competent services at the federal and Flemish levels in order to tackle the problem together. Before this summer, I will draw up a regulatory framework which will include, inter alia, a clear definition of the networks that are still authorised and how they should be required to be marked. I will also look into whether and how the reporting obligation applicable to professional fishing can also apply to recreational fishing. The Flemish Region will also consider the necessary adaptations to regional legislation to align the two regulations. In this way, checks could also be carried out smoothly and efficiently. The recreational fishing and the protection of species on the land side of the low-water line belongs to the Flemish powers; on the water side of the low-water line the federal government is competent. If both regulations are aligned, it is also much easier for enforcement services to monitor compliance. Finally, and rightly so, many of the washed-up marine mammals come from by-catches in French or British waters. In the long term, therefore, it will be necessary to consider whether changes to European fisheries policy will be possible to reduce by-catch of seals as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your precise answer. I look forward with interest and expectation to the regulatory initiatives you will take on this incidental by-catch.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u39	Minister, it's 3:00 p.m. Do you still have time for one question from Mr Ravyts?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u40	Mr President, I would like to do that, but there are still three questions left.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u41	We're not gonna get around today anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u42	When's the next meeting scheduled?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u43	July 6th.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u44	With your permission, Mr President, I would like to answer the question about the wind farm at Dunkirk because many of my colleagues have put a question on this. The other questions can then either be converted into written questions or I will answer them on 6 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u45	Mr President, Minister, I fully agree with you that this is a priority, and I thank you for staying after 3 p.m. From 14 September to 20 December last year, the Commission Nationale du Débat Publique organised a public consultation on these plans. This consultation was open to the Belgian public. The Committee presented its report to the general public on 16 February. One of the committee's recommendations explicitly states that it is appropriate for the French authorities to continue consultations with Belgium. The French project developers were able to indicate until 16 May whether they wished to continue their project and how they would respond if necessary to the concerns. So they have taken note of the Belgian objections, but apparently they want to continue with the project. May 16th is now over. A few months ago, you said that you would have a meeting with the competent French Minister Pompili in March. What steps have you taken in this file since March 10th? What was the outcome of your consultation with the competent French minister? Did the French developers consult with you? What are the results of that? That's not very clear to me. I know that you have taken up a law firm and want to pursue a two-track policy: further diplomatic consultation, but at the same time a legal stick behind the door. I'd like to get an update.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u46	Mr President, Minister, thank you for staying. After all, this is a very important dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u47	Minister, I would like to thank you for your presence yesterday in Nieuwpoort at the ordination of fishermen and the sea. It's nice that you were there to put down flowers. We hope to see you there every year, but that will undoubtedly be the case. The windmill park off the coast of Dunkirk is also located in areas the fishermen use. I have a number of additional questions. Firstly, in the past, you have said that you will take a law firm under the arm and do not rule out any legal action. It would be good to confirm that again, hopefully, in stronger terms. A threat is only serious when it is concrete. So what about the preparation of the legal steps? My second question concerns the diplomatic path. You have already stated that there would first be a consultation with your counterpart in France, while we know by now that the Minister does not even want a local referendum there. He just wants to move forward with those plans. However, we persist in the way of diplomacy. That's always interesting. My question is which cards are in your hands? Have you discussed this with your fellow ministers? Are there other dossiers in which France might be a party asking for help and which we might be difficult to deal with? I note that this usually goes in one direction. Last week we were talking about the Brexit Adjustment Reserve, which now gives us EUR 25 million less because France is making trouble. It would be a good thing if we too dare to play that political game with some hair on our teeth.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the dossier of the planned wind farm off the Dunkirk coast is a very important one, not just for me but for the entire government. That is why we have not been idle. For example, on 16 March 2021, I had a videoconference with the French Minister for Ecological Transition and the French Minister for the Sea. Minister Pompili once again stressed the importance of the wind farm in the French energy transition, but then expressed his willingness to examine whether a relocation of the wind farm would be legally possible, insofar as this would not lead to additional delays. The evolution in this area, Mr Pillen, is that staff of my services and my cabinet had three days of consultation at the Belgian embassy in Paris to explain the legal possibilities, in the presence of counselors from France and Belgium. I can be brief about the conclusion: there is a legal possibility and there is no discussion about this either. We also estimate the risk of legal proceedings very low. However, France wants a slope with 100% certainty, something which cannot of course be given in a rule of law. Following the consultations, diplomatic talks were initiated by the Belgian ambassador in France. There was also a contact at the European summit in Porto between President Macron and Prime Minister De Croo and there was a contact between Minister for Foreign Affairs Wilmès and the French State Secretary for European Affairs. The subject has therefore been raised several times in the contacts between our country and France. Finally, last Thursday I had another meeting with Minister Pompili in which I reiterated that we are not against the park as such, but against its location. I have also pointed out that this is a serious attack on our interests and that we will continue to defend them by all means. In the past, I have been in contact with EMD and RTE, the French network manager, as part of a public consultation we organised in December 2020. A new consultation with them is planned this week. The situation is not easy for EMD either: it must build a park on a site which was allocated to it by the French authorities. During the planned consultations, we will once again demonstrate in detail that moving the park to the north is the best solution for all parties. EMD indeed announced on 10 May that it will continue to build the project and that it will take further steps to obtain the necessary permits. We know there are studies going on. Mr Pillen, Mrs Depraetere, I have not yet received an official reply on the Belgian position we have put forward in the public consultation. According to the French legislation, it is not necessary to reply to each of the objections individually. In the decision, however, EMD should indicate how they will take into account the many thousands of responses that have come. The decision which was published included a number of general intentions, which in no way respond to all the objections and thus not to those of Belgium. In Belgium too, the answers are not answered individually in a public consultation, but we are making it a point of officially sending a reply to our neighbouring countries. In this case, it is not France, but EMD that bears the responsibility for this. Several further steps are now possible. We will always put it in the bosom of the federal government, and of course also in consultation with other governments, local and Flemish authorities, with a view to taking action. First, we will consider whether we will challenge EMD's decision of May 10th. This will not stop the construction of the park, but it would be a signal to the French government that we are taking the matter seriously. In the context of licence applications, EMD will have to organise a so-called survey publication. In this context, Belgium will be formally asked to comment. I have already given the message on several occasions that we will not only participate in the French procedure but also organise a public consultation ourselves. The publication of the survey deals with the environmental aspects of the area. I am deeply concerned that France and/or EMD have the necessary data to assess the impact on the Belgian Natura 2000 area, the Flemish banks. We ourselves carry out no less than 24 nature studies to build windmills in the Princess Elisabeth zone. I trust that France will show the necessary seriousness in this regard too. Finally, I instructed our French advisers to prepare an in-depth opinion on France's possible letter of formal notice to the European Commission on the infringement of European directives. Belgium should have been formally consulted in 2016 when choosing the location of the park. This has clearly not happened, and this could have avoided many problems. I'm not giving up faith in the talks yet. The slope of an alternative zone which has meanwhile been refined by Belgium is a solution to all our concerns and gives France the assurance that the park can be built in time. Consultation is and remains the fastest way to obtain legal certainty for all parties. An alternative location is a win-win situation for both countries. If this fails, the other path will be effectively followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u49	So, Minister, we are looking for a win-win situation for both countries, which is positive. This week you are having another consultation with the developers and I hope you will be able to convince some people there of the usefulness of moving that location. After all, Belgium was not involved in the location choice in 2016, which is why you have no choice but to take a law firm under the arm to take decisive steps if the French were not really prepared to look for a win-win situation. So Mr Loones was right to ask for a letter of formal notice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u50	Minister, I believe I understand that there is a consultation this week. It is good that all the slopes are being tried and that maximum use is made of the consultation. As long as the consultations are ongoing, we cannot make many statements about this. It is certainly a good thing that solutions are still being sought. We will certainly come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for the very detailed answer. There has already been a great deal of consultation and even more, both with the project developers and with the political actors, comes to the highest level. In France all this is somewhat related, even more so than in our country. So it is good that both tracks are being worked on. Although one prefers not to deal with a good neighbour in this way, it is nevertheless necessary to examine what legal possibilities exist. I'm afraid that's important. France did not follow European rules in 2016 and they could face them legally in 2021, that is the way it works. Hopefully it doesn't have to come to that, but it's important that that slope is walked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic486x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. Of course it's good to talk to each other. My appeal is certainly not naive in that consultation. We know France. We know which way it often goes: the way of one's own interest, France first. If there's any chance of turning that around, so much better. But let us already think about the two slopes. You are on top of the procedural slope, we have noticed that in your answer. You're gonna put in attorneys and defaults. Use them absolutely, if they're needed. But I would also like you to open a second axis, a politically more assertive axis, and to see how a certain quid pro quo can be possible in cooperation between the two countries, which are in conflict in this dossier but perhaps not in a number of other dossiers. That could create opportunities.
