ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u1	Thank you, Madam President. I guess I have time to group my two questions together. Deputy Prime Minister, I wanted to go back to the history of this issue. The Committee on Social Affairs began its work and for several months it examined the file on supplementary pensions for minors living in Limburg. After hearings and written opinions, these debates culminated in the adoption of the Act of 15 June 2020 on the method of calculating the supplementary pension for substantive minors, precisely. This law was passed by a two-thirds majority of our assembly. From a legal point of view, is it a restorative law? In any case, I consider it to be such. The problem arises from the Royal Decree of 4 December 1990, which implements the Act of 20 July 1990 in a way that is not in conformity with the text of the Act itself. Without going into detail, the wrong implementation of the law has created a financial damage that has worsened over time for retired minors and their beneficiaries. The law of 15 June 2020 provided for a retroactivity of 10 years, with an entry into force on 1 January 2011. On this basis, the SPF pays the beneficiary a single payment for pension supplements due for the last 10 years. The question that brings up this topical debate is whether or not there is a need to introduce a professional withholding tax, and therefore a tax, on these pensions. As a first step, the Social Affairs colleagues questioned the Minister of Pensions, Ms Lalieux, who replied that, according to the Finance Department, the supplements would be treated as other pension arrears and would therefore be taxed as such. That is what brings us to this debate. I would like to tell you that in the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs, this issue of professional discount has never, to my knowledge, been addressed. In any case, there was no explicit will on the part of the legislator to provide for this. The association of the underground miners, the Vriendenkring, has commissioned a legal study which I will describe as circumstantiated by the office of lawyers Eubelius, who himself has collaborated with other tax specialists that you probably know, including master Chantal Hendrickx, and which responds to an argument from your finance administration. I would just like to recall a few points. This is indeed a very specific legal debate. First of all, the Eubelius office demonstrates that the law of 15 June 2020 is not an interpretative law. Secondly, it refers to article 170 of the Constitution, which provides that a tax may be imposed only by a law that is clear. Secondly, this office says that, by the wording of Article 34(1),(1) of the Income Tax Code of 1992, which is the main reference base, the legislator refers to statutory pensions only as monthly and periodic pensions and not as single payments. I must say that this interpretation is contested by the Finance Administration. The Eubelius Bureau considers that, had the legislator wished to impose these pension supplements, it should have explicitly provided for this in the law. Thus, for the Eubelius office, this is a sui generis payment, i.e. a capital payment of a retroactive pension supplement which cannot be considered merely as a legal pension within the meaning of Article 34 of the above-mentioned Tax Code. The Bureau noted that the imposition of a single payment for a period of 10 years would be contrary to the constitutional principle of annuality, under which income is taxable only in the tax year to which it relates. This is article 172 of the Constitution. Eubelius also demonstrates that this single payment also does not meet the definition of pension arrears – that is obviously contested – or a late payment. In conclusion, Eubelius insists on the sui generis benefit of payments made and considers that there is no legal basis for considering that the single payment of a retroactive pension supplement is taxable. In the meantime, the General Tax Administration has, I think, sent two legal notes in which it confirms the taxable nature of the retroactive payment in the question of "imposability", of belastbaarheid. These notes therefore contradict certain arguments of the lawyers and tax practitioners of Eubelius et al. This view is confirmed by the General Counsel in a later note. As we are not lawyers, it is not easy to develop a philosophy between these opposing arguments. It comes back to us that yesterday, February 9, 2021, held an online meeting between the tax specialists of the FPS Finances and those of Eubelius and Tiberghien. This meeting, it seems, was courteous – this debate is completely courteous – but both sides have camped on their positions. The Income Tax Code appears to be subject to interpretation. In this regard, Minister, it is you who, after analysis, will have to decide and decide. You have certainly studied all the legal arguments of the Eubelius offices, which seem to me a priori – I have studied them carefully – very, very coherent. Do you or do you not meet these arguments? With your administration, do you maintain the decision to impose these supplements?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u2	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the detailed discussion. As the son of a former miner, this file is very affectionate to me. I was therefore pleasantly surprised last year that we were able to achieve this by a large majority across party boundaries. The first uncertainties in this matter were the payouts. There was a fear that they would be delayed for a very long time. It was therefore pleasant to note that the pension services have done an enormous amount of work and have dealt with the dossiers at a rapid pace. From December, just after Saint Barbara, payments started. We were surprised, however, that there was no clarity about tax deductions from these payments. According to the Federal Pension Service, an exemption from withholding tax or tax exemption is planned. In addition, the Administrator-General for Taxation of the FPS Finance confirms that in its memo of 21 January 2021, on the basis of a memo by Véronique Petry and François-Xavier Gaudissart. It is a question of making the one-off payment of a retroactive pension taxable as a supplement. However, the one-off payment of the retroactive pension supplement should be seen as a sui generis benefit, and thus stand alone. A new note from Master Chantal Hendrickx confirms this reasoning. I understand, however, that there was no compromise at all in the sitting yesterday and that we are therefore at a standstill in that regard. Minister, do you follow the arguments of the lawyers who wrote to the CS Friends' Group, and what action will you take on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u3	Madam President, since this is an actua debate, may I speak in that context?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u4	Mr Leysen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u5	Madam President, Minister, I fully appreciate and understand the efforts of miners who have worked underground until 1991 and have made an important contribution to our economy. As you know, our group did not vote in favour of the proposal for a retroactive adjustment of pensions, which would not be paid in full in 30 years but in 25 years. The EUR 200 million earmarked for this purpose, not for the entire period but for the last ten years, is also a gesture which I can understand on a human level, but nevertheless dates from a period without a full government and was approved by Parliament through a very atypical coalition from the extreme left to the extreme right. That does not matter for the outcome of the vote. I respect the vote and I am glad that this adjustment was quickly paid out. However, my surprise is all the greater now, especially from a socialist point of view, that the adjustments or supplements should also be defiscalized. I thought that in a healthy society everyone should contribute. I understand that some groups lobby not to levy taxes, which is human. That virus has infected everyone. There is lobbying and lawyers can always be found who can find arguments for this. Minister, can you agree with this increasing structural tax flight by finding or putting forward new rules in order to ensure that more and more allowances are paid duty-free? We did the same during the covid crisis. One can always argue about this, but a particularly bad example is set. I sometimes feel that they want to get all the money out of the bank before we are faced with the great tragedy that we are no longer able to pay our obligations. Minister, this major fiscal reform must not only be fair but also transparent. There must also be a large basis so that the tax rates can remain at a reasonable level. This means that everyone contributes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u6	I can reassure those Members who thought that Mr Delizée was taking the floor in detail. In the previous legislature, I experienced the debate on the one-off index jump in the Committee on Social Affairs. He could be even more elaborate. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, those who had not received enough money from the past had to be compensated: that was the basis for legislation on retrospective pension supplements for underground miners, which was approved in Parliament between two full governments. In the meantime, you have also understood with the explanation given by my fellow Members that there is some discussion today as to whether these amounts are subject to taxation. According to several experts, they were already mentioned by name, since it is a one-off payment sui generis. Minister, your colleague, Mr Lalieux, is now well on the way to implementing what we approved at the time. I have also asked her, as Mr Colebunders has already said, about taxation. However, she does not want to make any comments on this and refers to you, Minister, which I understand. Do you agree with the interpretation of some that the retroactive pension supplements would not be taxable? If not, how do you support a possible difference in vision on the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u7	Our miners have not received enough pension or pension supplement for nearly 30 years, because a law contradicted a KB. We corrected that. Now there is another discussion about a law on whether or not the retroactive supplement is taxable. There are two possible interpretations. Three renowned experts say independently that the supplement is not taxable, based on different laws, but there is also a note of your services. If one reads the law in a certain way, then the supplement would be taxable. Mr Minister, we are asking for clarity today, so that the dossier can be completed. The Pension Service is doing all the calculations and paying out supplements at an enormous rate, but soon the tax bill will also be issued. At that time, it must be absolutely clear to the miners whether or not they have to pay a piece of tax on the amount paid retrospectively. Minister, please give us some clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I have, of course, listened carefully to your questions on the issue of miners' pensions. Let me start by saying that, of course, I am well aware of the position and arguments developed by the lawyers employed on behalf of the miners' interest organisation regarding the increase in the pension supplement of underground miners, as also established by the law of 15 June 2020. However, I cannot share that view for the following reasons. In consultation with my administration, we have come to the conclusion that the retroactive payment of the increase in the pension supplement of underground miners constitutes a taxable pension in accordance with the current provisions of the WIB 92. The taxable capacity of pensions originates in Articles 23 and 34 of that Code. Article 23, § 1, 5° provides that pensions, pensions and allowances in force as such are occupational income. Article 34(1) more specifically determines what is to be understood as a pension, annuities and allowances in lieu of pensions. This applies to pensions, annuities and allowances which are directly or indirectly related to a professional activity, irrespective of the debtor, the beneficiary, the qualification and the manner in which they are determined and granted. The tax law gives a very broad scope to the concept of pension. Pensions, etc. must therefore be taxed as an occupational income. who have their origin in a professional activity. It is therefore not an exhaustive list, but an illustrative list. Applying this to the situation in question, the pension of minors who have usually and mainly worked for at least 25 years at the bottom of the mines consists of a basic pension which is increased by a pension supplement. These two components fully meet what is considered a taxable pension. I understand that before the law of 15 June 2020 there was a lot of discussion about the accuracy of the regulatory provisions that formed the basis for the calculation of the pension supplement. That is why the law of 15 June 2020 wanted to clarify this. If we look at that law, we can see that its provisions mainly explicate the elements of the method of calculation of the pension supplement, so that there could no longer be any uncertainty as to how it is to be calculated. The law has then led to an increase in the pension supplement. The legislator also decided to give retroactive application to the Law of 15 June 2020. In concrete terms, the legislator has decided that the new method of calculating the pension supplement will work back until 1 January 2011. This retroactive application corresponds to the limitation period applicable in social matters, as shown by the parliamentary documents of the law. The pension supplement, which is currently allocated on the basis of the amended legislation, is undoubtedly a taxable pension. In this, no doubt is possible. Similarly, it cannot be disputed that this was also the case with the old supplement. The same applies to amounts that have been recalculated and allocated retroactively as a result of the increase in the pension supplement effective January 1, 2011. This is clearly a supplement which comes from the professional activity of the basic minor. In addition, I refer to section 5 of the Act of 15 June 2020 which states: "When the beneficiary died before the date of entry into force of this Act, the arrears relating to the pension supplement (...) resulting from the application of this Act." In doing so, the legislator wanted to make it clear that the amounts paid should be regarded as a pension supplement. That pension supplement forms part of the taxable pension of underground miners. In recent weeks, my cabinet and my administration have received some legal analyses commissioned by the miners' interest organisation. Those analyses seek to demonstrate that the amount of pension supplements that have been recalculated and repaid since 1 January 2011 would constitute a non-taxable income. For this purpose, the appointed advisers rely on the interpretative nature of the Law of 15 June 2020. But that discussion is not fiscally relevant. What is fiscally relevant is the fact that the recalculated pension supplement directly refers to a professional activity. The Federal Pension Service is currently obliged by the Act of 15 June 2020 to recalculate the monthly pension supplements for minors of background who were paid from 1 January 2011 and to pay the positive difference to the minors concerned or their dependants. Therefore, there is no reason not to impose these payments as a pension. The way in which these increased pension supplements have been allocated in practice to minors is, in this respect, irrelevant: whether it is a single amount or broken down according to the month to which it relates. However, the advisors argue that this is a one-time allowance of the retroactive pension supplement, in order to conclude that it is non-taxable. According to them, Article 34 § 1 does not provide any legal basis for imposing such a single allowance. This provision would only be provided for the taxation of pensions paid monthly or periodically. Contrary to what the counsellors argue, this is indeed about the payment of pension supplements that are payable monthly. Because of the recalculation, which runs over a period of 10 years, they are paid in one go for practical reasons. Moreover, Article 34 in Paragraph 1 does not provide anywhere that only monthly or periodically paid pensions are intended. The reading of that article makes it very clear that the method of determining and granting pensions is not relevant. This article literally states that taxable pensions include pensions which relate directly or indirectly to a professional activity, irrespective of the debtor, the transferee or their designation and the way in which they are determined and granted. If we were to follow the logic advocated by the advisers, this would mean that it would never be possible to impose pension arrears when they are paid under a single allowance. This logic is in fact contrary to the provisions of the Code. To repeat briefly what I have just developed, Article 34 § 1 provides a legal basis for considering the increase in the pension supplement for basic minors as a taxable pension. This is in fact the allocation of pension supplements which are due monthly and which, as a result of a reduction of a period of 10 years, are paid at once for practical reasons. Even if these were not monthly amounts, this would not affect the taxable nature of such income. The law explicitly states that the manner in which the payment is executed is not fiscally relevant. Finally, if the legislator's intention had been to exempt these retroactive payments from income tax, it should have been explicitly provided for in the law by the principle of legality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u9	Mr Minister, thank you for your comprehensive explanation of the interpretation given by the FPS Finance to the tax charges on the pension supplement. It is a very important principle of law that this must be clear and certain, it must also be established. The views of the miners have been taken by renowned lawyers. When I had read the two notes, there was something to say for both parties. There was a meeting yesterday and they will send an additional note to your administration. Maybe we can look at that again after all. I do not want to see miners living in uncertainty for many years again, as with the pension supplement, and that uncertainty would be maintained for many years through all kinds of discussions or possible pending legal proceedings. I therefore call for this to be clear and clear. Mr Leysen, my question does not in any way seek to advocate or propose here all kinds of evasion mechanisms, quite the contrary. It must be clear and certain, so that the discussion can be ended and the miners simply get what they are entitled to. In the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions yesterday we had a discussion about a Uber employee who was right to be a worker from the Administrative Commission on Employment. Still, he got thrown off the app. We also have a long way to go in order to achieve fair taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u10	Minister, I take note and thank you for your detailed response. I'll reread it with rested head because its argumentation is quite dense. I understand the disappointment of minors who have, for quite a long time, tried to obtain redress for a situation for which they are not responsible and who may feel that the State is partly resuming what has been attributed to them. From a human point of view, it is not easy and I think it will require clear communication with the beneficiaries. This argument should be understandable as far as possible, perhaps with a new meeting between specialists. Indeed, I believe that there is a lack of understanding in the case. However, the tax experts Eubelius and others who have done this work provide a number of arguments. You have given your vision and that of your administration. We take note of that. This is a very specific situation. In almost 30 years here, I've never been in such a situation. I was quite convinced by the sui generis service as proposed by tax experts. I don't think we can go any further than here. It is not through a topical debate that we will go into the details of legal arguments. We don't have time to do it in a few minutes. I can only invite specialists to get around the table and try to understand the legal reality of the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u11	Minister, I would also like to thank you for your detailed and, above all, clear presentation of this dossier, because I heard my predecessors ask for clarification. I think that's what you did today. I understand that both your cabinet, your services and the experts appointed by the miners' organization have sat at the table together and held a serene debate on this matter. I am glad that that step has been taken and that today we can give clarity to the ex-miners. I understand from your reply that the taxableness of the miners' pension supplements is based on three very large arguments. The question of whether or not the law of 15 June 2020 is interpretive does not really matter today. What is fiscally important is whether the recalculated pension supplements directly relate to a professional activity. That's true in this case. We are all aware that this is a professional activity. That is why the one-off benefits are taxable, even if they are retroactive. Many colleagues have worked on the bill over the past year. In principle, we have never talked about this strength. We did not do that because we assumed that this pension supplement, like all other professional activities, would also be taxed. We also see this in the healthcare sector. I think this will clarify things today. I understand the miners who have a different idea about this. Minister, I am very pleased that you have taken the initiative to organise a discussion with the other experts fiscalists. I can only welcome the fact that you have recorded this dossier and made a real effort to speak to the people who have questions. I would like to thank the people of the cabinet and the administration and also the fiscalists who have been appointed by the miners. I hope that we can conclude this debate and that we can meet each other with the great step we took last year, in particular the correction needed for miners. I would like to thank colleagues for the work they have done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u12	Mr. Secretary, I don't want to be in the miners' shoes. What they are going through, none of us can feel, because let us be honest when they first came to Parliament about the miners' supplement, they got the same answer as they do now. It was said that pensions were paid correctly, but they had to wait 30 years for it, and ultimately the pension proved wrong. We saw this and that is why we tabled a legislative proposal on this last year, but today the miners receive the same answer. The experts of the FOD say that there is no discussion about the postures, while three independent services... are not about lawyer Janneke, Mieke or anyone else say that this is not right. So the scale is moving all the way over to one side. Whoever's right... I'm not a tax expert. I am honest about this: I have been a worker and a trade unionist. However, I do know what these people are going through and what they are feeling now. They wanted to play the game fairly, they called us all asking us to get what's coming to them. However, we will ensure that the scale is completely transferred to the side that costs the least. That's not what we need to do. We still need to keep the door open and perhaps consult other independent experts to see what we can do. Honesty takes the longest. Miners know what fighting is: now they feel defeated, but tomorrow they will rise up again and not leave it there. I will say quite frankly that we will also find out what the correct interpretation of this is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive explanation of the technical approach to the laws. So this is not about backdoors or defiscalisation. We can also approach this subject sentimentally. It's about miners who have been short for 30 years. A compensation will be made in ten years' time and they will be faced with this. So I can perfectly understand that they are very disappointed. It's not really about the sentimental aspect either. This is purely about legislation and how it should be interpreted. There is a contradiction between the specialists of the FPS Finance and external tax specialists who have also written a report on this issue. You sat at the table together, but you didn't get out. Those external tax experts will make a new, more comprehensive report. I would like to ask them to sit at the table again, so that the situation can be demined. In any case, the file has not yet been closed for the miners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I'm not a former union representative, I'm not a tax expert, like my colleague. Therefore, I do not wish to comment on the substance of the matter, but the interpretation of the legislation often depends on the person who reads it. It's not the first time this has happened. It is essential to provide the miners with clarity in the relatively short term. We have to give legal certainty to the people. I have listened carefully to you, Minister, and I understand that you have already made a decision. I had hoped that this would be looked at again, the opinions of the various experts in addition to the equally valuable view of the FPS Finance. I don't want to judge that in any way. I take it from your answer that unfortunately this will not happen again. I'm sorry about that. I think I have understood from a number of Members from the majority that they find this regrettable. I believe I have understood that it is being asked to look at this again. I would like to join in that. I also hear other colleagues from the majority say that they can follow the arguments of the experts. So let us look at that again and clarify it quickly. Mrs Farih is 100 % right. It was never intended to obtain a tax exemption when the bill was submitted. Mr Leysen, we will have to bear the consequences of the law we passed at the time. This means that late supplements are either subject to taxation or not. You pretend that this has already been decided, but I would ask you to bring together, possibly through hearings, the experts who have expressed themselves in one sense and the people of the FPS Finance who have expressed themselves in the other sense, so that the right decision is certainly taken. After all, we will have to bear the consequences of what we have approved, either in one sense or in another. I would therefore ask you to move forward and exchange views with all the experts and all those involved in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I was just asking for clarification, and I think you gave it to me. You have used words like "indiscutable" and "sans doute." Those are words that point to clarity. There are laws and the miners ask nothing but that the laws be observed. Their social media always mentions above their calls: the law is the law, and we have to abide by that law. You have an executive mandate in the government to comply with these laws. I assume that you have not gone over the ice of one night and that you have looked at the pros and cons, also from the viewpoint of the miners' associations, and that you, as the executive authority, say here that corporate tax is to be paid on the retroactive amounts, as it was decided last year. We have asked for clarity and you are giving us clarity. In fact, I can only welcome that. In my view, we must remain in dialogue with the miners and continue to explain why you are making this decision. I often compare the premium for the healthcare sector that has recently been paid. There have also been very disappointing reactions, because taxes had to be paid on them. But if one word characterises the miners, it is solidarity. So I think we need to explain this very carefully. It was very technical just now. I admit, quite frankly, that I cannot fully follow all the laws you mention and its implementing decisions. I call on you to continue to engage in dialogue with the miners and to continue to explain why you are doing this, and that this is the implementation of laws that have been adopted in the past and it is your mandate to implement those laws.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u16	Minister, this is a new international tax scandal. It is not the first and it will probably not be the last, it must be deplored. This time, it is the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg that is in the line of sight. This isn't the first time. A few years ago, I had the opportunity to reveal a number of information about "letterbox" companies in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. By questioning one of your predecessors, Mr Reynders, he had had to admit that there was indeed a problem with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, which houses a number of these companies. They do not have a real economic existence and their only purpose is to offer tax solutions to a number of economic actors, entrepreneurs who artificially lodge part of their profits in another country, in particular Belgium, in order to avoid paying tax contributions there. Since then, developments have taken place at the European level, the vise has tightened since the automatic exchange of information is now the rule. It is therefore becoming increasingly difficult for a person to own financial accounts in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg without reporting any financial income, personal income, interest, dividends and other income. But the fact is that the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has decided to reconvert itself by becoming no longer a banking haven but a fiscal territory that offers solutions adapted to a range of economic actors, individuals or companies, who are looking for attractive tax arrangements – for example, not having to pay a personal discount on financial income or being able to be exempt from taxation on intellectual property income and other benefits. The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has gradually transformed itself from uncooperative banking territory into a territory offering suitable tax solutions. Of course, there are always aggressive tax schemes, even tax fraud, when revenues have not been reported and when they are the result of tax evasion. The fact is that this type of behaviour is harmful to other states - France, Germany, etc. - including Belgium, because at our doors, at our borders, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, our neighbour, emptys some of the revenue that should come back to the Belgian Treasury by grabbing them, allowing a series of people to organize themselves internationally to escape their contributions. The press reveals a multitude of operations whose natures and justifications are varied. These are sometimes successions, sometimes a real relocation of certain capital, sometimes the creation of a company serving as a reception area for certain types of income, precisely. But in total, through these practices, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg harms our financial interests. It is to be welcomed that all this has been made visible - see the revelations in the press - through measures adopted at European level, such as the UBO register. We can congratulate ourselves on that. But at the same time, it does not prevent the Grand Duchy from continuing. Minister, we are facing a huge social crisis. Many of our fellow citizens, wage-earners, self-employed people, social recipients, have difficulties in making ends meet, in meeting their end-of-month goals, are faced with some form of social and economic disadvantage, in short an unbearable situation. More than ever, the State and public authorities are being called upon to provide public services to respond to the health crisis. The State needs financial resources. This is based on the contributions and social contributions paid by Belgian taxpayers. And during this time, some, by tax incivism or even simply incivism, decide to escape any form of contribution even though they are among the richest and most privileged. Minister, I believe it is important that you ensure that these practices cease as soon as possible, because from the point of view of tax fairness, it is unbearable and, on the other hand, no one understands that the effort must be borne by taxpayers who decide to respond honestly to their tax and parafiscal obligations. Do you intend to ask the Special Inspectorate of Taxes (SII) to open a file to deal with this new flow of tax fraud, to analyse it, to carry out useful and necessary administrative investigations and to carry out the necessary adjustments, not to mention a frank discussion which you must hold with your Luxembourg counterpart in order to stop these totally unbearable practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u17	Minister, I would like to address two aspects of the OpenLux issue. The first part concerns the case itself and the role of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. This survey analyses the Luxembourg register of beneficial owners and shows how much Luxembourg remains a formidable tax haven. Yet neither this State nor any other Member State of the European Union is on the European list of tax havens, a list that is, if I am not mistaken, currently under discussion. You have had or should soon have a debate with your counterparts on this list. I note that in France, some senators are asking to place Luxembourg on the list of tax havens. So that's a question I'm asking you. Do you not find it necessary to put an end to this automatism, which means that the Member States of the European Union are never considered tax havens on the European list? Will you defend this position on Luxembourg if it does not fall into line? The second aspect I want to address is precisely this register of beneficial owners as applied in Belgium. Indeed, journalists in particular from Le Soir who revealed the information following the newspaper Le Monde also point to Belgium's deficiencies in the register. I had already asked you about this. Do you not find it necessary to remove barriers to genuine public access to the register, as the European Union provides, for example by removing the payment of fees or the obligation to log in via MyMinFin? This would allow non-residents to consult this database as well. How many officials are assigned to the management and control of the UBO registry? Is this number sufficient? I had already mentioned, as an example, the case of the holding company Ackermans & van Haaren, which appears in BEL20 and which at the time had not fulfilled its UBO obligations. Recently, it's been recorded. I believe that this date is January, i.e. one year late, but it does not mention any beneficial owner name. How can this be explained? I'll take a specific case to ask you the question. I am not targeting this particular company. In the event of breach of UBO obligations, fines shall apply. They range from 250 to 50 000 euros. Is this maximum not too low, given that it amounts to EUR 1.25 million in Luxembourg? Finally, in your answer to my question of October 10, 2020, you mentioned that 1,460 requests for exemptions had been submitted in order not to publish the personal data of the beneficial owners. Only 76 requests, or 5%, were refused. Of these applications, 967 concerned minors or persons with disabilities. Thus, there remain 417 times where anonymity is granted because of a disproportionate risk of fraud, kidnapping, blackmail, extortion, harassment, violence or intimidation. How can we explain so many derogations for such a reason? How is this pattern controlled? Should we not delete what appears to be a royal way of circumventing the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u18	Madam President, Minister, the facts that came out in connection with OpenLux make a person dizzy. We read that a group of journalists discovered yesterday, after data mining from the UBO register, that as many as 55,000 offshore companies are to be found in Luxembourg. These are companies that do not engage in any activity or have salaryed employees and jointly manage EUR 6,000 billion. It is also striking that the data show that more than 10,000 Belgians own one or more Luxembourg companies. Today I read in the newspaper that there is even a Belgian who manages 1,022 of them. The French and Luxembourgers are very close, with 14,700 and 14,500 Luxembourg companies respectively. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, thanks to the European DAC Directive, the Belgian tax authorities have access to the Luxembourg UBO data. How many targeted control actions has the Belgian tax authorities already done? How often has access been used? What were the results of these actions? My second question concerns the importance of fiscal transparency, which has once again been demonstrated by this dossier. A performant full register of beneficial owners is a key element in this. I would like to hear the state of play regarding the completeness of the current Belgian UBO register. How many contributions are incomplete? I have another question about the safety of this system. There was an incident in January with a data breach, which allowed third parties to look up national registers via the UBO application. Is that completely out of the way? What is the state of play in this respect? A third point I would like to make is that it has once again been shown that Belgium has the greatest risk of harmful tax practices from other European countries. The government agreement states that Belgium supports the revision of the European Code of Conduct and calls for an extension of the definition of harmful tax practices. I would like to hear from you what concrete European initiatives you will take to put this part of the coalition agreement into practice? Madam President, I would like to apologise in advance if I were to run away during the Minister's reply. There is a topical debate on the agenda in a parallel committee of which I am a member.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u19	I know, I have a number of questions myself in other committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u20	Minister, it is thanks to the international cooperation of journalists, this time from the newspaper Le Soir, that unwelcome financial constructions come to light. In this case, it concerns company data in Luxembourg, of which more than 10,000 companies have Belgian owners. Among the names that have been published are people suspected of serious criminal offences. On the other hand, there appear to be more than 300 minors, including children of 3 years old, who are successful owners of a real estate empire. In any case, a number of strange things have come to light that deserve further investigation. The information came to light through the UBO system in Luxembourg. That system is far from perfect, but nevertheless, those journalists have managed to expose a lot of information. This brings us to the UBO system in our country, where access to data is made even more difficult than in Luxembourg. Hence my questions. Are you prepared to ask the competent services, such as the Financial Information Processing Cell (CFI), to examine this information, which has come to light in Luxembourg, in an attempt to identify Belgian fraudsters or tax evaders? Do you intend to ease access to the Belgian UBO data so that independent researchers, such as journalists, can also use it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u21	Madam President, Minister, I will not dwell on this matter in OpenLux because some of my colleagues have developed the subject very well. Having made the necessary arrangements at European level allows us today to make a statement which – you know, Minister – does not please us. But the fact is that this transparency will allow us to act. That's how I get to my questions. Mr Minister, have you ever had discussions with your Luxembourg counterpart concerning, in particular, the lack of checks on beneficiaries which have been reported in the press on several occasions in recent days? Are there other avenues for greater transparency in the identification of owners, even if everyone knows that it is very complicated and even unnecessarily complicated, if I believe the terms of the directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u22	Madam President, Minister, the results of a great survey have just been published on the register of beneficial owners in Luxembourg. This is reflected in the particularly intriguing information. Indeed, it seems that 15% of the world's billionaires have a foot in Luxembourg. You certainly know, like me, that it was probably not the climate that would attract billionaires to the Grand Duchy. The real owners of Luxembourg-based companies are not always identifiable. This poses serious problems with regard to the high risk of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. This difficulty in identifying beneficial owners has different origins. There are companies that state that they do not know who the beneficial owners are. There are those who report strictly nothing or who do not report all the beneficiaries. According to the results of the survey, another part of the problem lies in the fact that only beneficiaries holding 25% of the shares or the right to vote are included in this list. Moreover, the reliability of the latter is not complete. Some point to Luxembourg's under-investment and lack of real political will to make this register reliable. In terms of content, there are many foreigners, including Belgians who own ten thousand companies in Luxembourg. Besides these Belgians, there are also people suspected of criminal activity, not to mention all those who pass under the radars, for the various reasons I have just listed. To refocus our debate on Belgium, our directory of ultimate beneficial owners follows the same principles of these 25% of the shares. The Belgian tax authorities state that many companies and ASBL have not yet submitted the legally necessary information. About ten civil servants are working on this register. In this survey, we also learn – but we already knew – that screen companies house all kinds of things (brands, intellectual property), allowing them to pay 5% tax in Luxembourg as opposed to 25% in Belgium. This real tax dumping, which is, for this part of intellectual property, soon to be over, must really come to an end. In addition to these intellectual property rights companies, there are all these screen companies. The question arises as to how their actual presence is estimated, the actual substance of their presence with offices, etc. living in Luxembourg. I think so many of us are questioning you today because the question of tax legitimacy arises. Failing to collect taxes or leaving loopholes in the collection of taxes calls into question legitimacy and makes citizens not inclined to adhere to the fair and proportional contribution of each. I would like to ask you about the results of this major investigation in Belgium. With regard to the cases that have been referred to the Public Prosecutor's Office, has Belgium been informed of the Belgian cases among the companies that have not reported anything in Luxembourg? About UBO information, how many companies in Belgium have not entered this information? What suites are reserved for them? How many people do they work on this register? For what amount of data to be processed? Finally, with regard to the 25% threshold, in view of all these revelations, how do you look at this 25% threshold of votes to identify the people who must be included in the UBO? Is that enough, in your opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u23	Madam President, the press releases relating to OpenLux have led to many questions in different directions. Before the discussions, it seems obvious that simply holding or creating a Luxembourg company never consisted of a criminal act. However, it is true that a few years ago some structures were perfectly opaque and could slow down or block the controller's work. Since then, the exchange of information has emerged, first the DACs and then the CRSs, which have added transparency. The UBO register introduced under the anti-money laundering legislation also increases transparency, as this weekend's press articles also demonstrate. The Luxembourg Government responded to these press releases via the website www.openlux.lu. More information can be found on the introduction of the UBO register by the Luxembourg Government. The functioning of the Belgian UBO register was established in 2018 by the then Minister of Finance in the Royal Decree of 30 July 2018 on the operating modalities of the UBO register. However, this KB appeared to have a number of shortcomings, as the European Commission sent a reasoned opinion to Belgium on 24 January 2019. The Royal Decree of 23 September 2020 amending the above-mentioned Royal Decree on the operating modalities of the UBO Registry has addressed these shortcomings. One of the major shortcomings was limited access to the data. The recent update makes it possible to access, inter alia, the current data available in the register at the time of the consultation and the history of the changes kept by the register. In order to enable the obliged person to comply with this recent change, my administration has introduced a tolerance period until 30 April 2021. In the meantime, the stakeholders will be consulted to ensure that the notifications are as efficient as possible. In fact, when the UBO was developed, incomplete information was presented, not only for Belgium, but also for Belgium, and there is a constant effort to improve it. In addition to consultation, there is also a need for regulation. In this context, I refer to the draft law on various financial provisions relating to the fight against fraud, which provides that the subject entities must notify electronically to the Treasury administration any discrepancy between information on final beneficiaries in the UBO register and information on the final beneficiaries they themselves have at their disposal. We are therefore focusing on the qualitative impact of the UBO register, so that we do not have to redeploy it in the short term. Moreover, initiatives on AML legislation are currently under way at European level. The result is expected in the summer of 2021 and the issue of harmonising the modalities for accessing the data contained in the UBO register of the different Member States will be on the table. The issue of the 25% threshold will be taken up in this context. In the meantime, my administration will examine the desirability of lowering this figure in the light of the experience and findings made since the legislation came into force at the end of 2018. As mentioned above, the most important step will be to increase the filling rate, which now stands at 85% overall, to 92% of companies and 45% of non-profit organizations and foundations. At present, all these tasks related to the development and management of the UBO register are carried out by about 10 agents assigned to the management of the UBO register within the general administration of the Treasury. As I said, the inclusion in the UBO register does not mean that one is a fraud. In the context of the press releases, there is therefore no tax fraud merely because one is the ultimate beneficiary of a Luxembourg company. What is even more important is how to use this information. At international level, and in particular at European level, an international standard on transparency should be established. Therefore, within the Code of Conduct, Belgium supports the updating and extension of its mandate with a view to the international approach to harmful tax practices. With regard to individual cases incompletely recorded in the register, the Treasury administration in charge of managing the UBO register is conducting the necessary searches. After the transition period, it is clear that fines can be imposed. The question of the amount of administrative fines should be placed in the more general context of seeking the most effective sanction for infringements of the legislation. It should be borne in mind that the fines provided for in Belgium are the responsibility of natural persons and not legal persons, which must be taken into account in the analysis of the proportionality of the penalty envisaged. With regard to requests for exemptions, in order not to publish personal data, the latest figures analysed on 9 February by the General Administration of the Treasury are as follows: a total of 1,658 applications were submitted, of which 1,153 were for minors and/or incapacitated. They may concern the same UBO. No authorization decision has been taken at this time. Seventy-eight administrative refusal decisions were taken. Finally, for its analyses and surveys, the ISI has already used the Luxembourg Memorial data intensively since 1997. Over time, this information has been cross-referenced with national data as well as CRS financial data in particular. These analyses have led to many different regularizations in recent years. There is no question that the ISI uses every opportunity to improve its risk analyses. The OpenLux case, which has just been unveiled through the UBO registry, is proof that the current mechanisms are working. There's not just the UBO register. Since 1 July 2020 and the entry into force of the law of 20 December 2019 transposing Directive DAC 6 as regards the automatic and mandatory exchange of information in the tax field in relation to cross-border arrangements to be reported, sanctions have been considerably reinforced by intermediaries. They may face dissuasive penalties if they fail to comply with their reporting obligations and do not provide information on aggressive tax planning. Important criminal sanctions also exist. First, therefore, the effectiveness of existing mechanisms must be achieved. I decide. It is of the utmost importance that the UBO register contains reliable and useful information so that it can be used proportionally by the services; I am thinking in particular of the cell set up within my administration to combat complex international tax private constructions that lead to tax evasion. The many stories from the press releases show that there are still many questions, which is normal given the new legal framework and computer system. That is why my administration is working with all the actors involved to ensure that the information covered by the Belgian legal framework is also effectively provided by the reporting agents, in the most efficient way to ensure quality information. I refer to the recent publication on the FPS Finance website, explaining the most important aspects of the UBO register in terms of data quality, method of recording and access to data, as well as ongoing projects for the coming year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u24	Mr Minister, I believe that this new scandal shows how essential it is for Belgium to defend its financial interests, but also to defend our idea of tax justice. How do you make it clear to the workers that every month they are kept from the occupational discount, from the social contributions on their salary sheet... How do you want to explain to the self-employed, to the entrepreneurs who, in Belgium, make advance payments every month in anticipation of the taxes they will have to pay... How do you therefore want to convince Belgian taxpayers that the tax they pay is established on a fair basis if, on the other hand, every year, the press reveals tax scandals of a huge scale? It's untenable. If we want to have a tax membership that is justified because the tax finances our public services, our health care, everything we offer to the community and to each of our fellow citizens to ensure that they can evolve in a living environment that is high enough to meet their needs, how do you want to explain this or be credible if, on the other hand, people do everything they can to avoid any contribution? That's not right! Following this new scandal in the OpenLux, where thousands of people would have legal structures, bank accounts, false businesses or companies that have no names but on the front lines, I ask you, Minister, that you really be able to mobilise all your services – including the college that you have set up and which brings together the tax administration, representatives of the justice system, the anti-money laundering specialists – to make this dossier a priority. It is a stream of tax evasion and we must see it as such, while we welcome, of course, the measures that have already been taken and that need to be strengthened. But we really need to make this case an example of your ability, of your political will to fight tax fraud effectively, as provided for in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u25	Minister, I'm a little disappointed with your answers. Whenever you are asked questions about the fight against major tax fraud, as we see here, you tend to minimize problems and facts. You start by telling us that holding a Luxembourg company is not criminal. You say that the government has responded and corrected the terms of the registry, etc. What is the question, minister? The question is whether, in our European Union, some countries – Luxembourg is one – act as tax havens. It is not a question of whether or not it is in conformity with the law. In fact, Luxembourg is making its own laws and is therefore not going to pass laws that put it out of the law. No! The question is whether this country acts as a tax haven. And the answer is clear. That's right! Already, in La Richesse hidden des nations, Gabriel Zucman had pointed in particular to Luxembourg's harmful role in international taxation. Multinationals from all over the world are attracted to Luxembourg. Why? It's because we offer the benefits of a tax haven. The real question is this. Will we accept the practices of these countries such as Luxembourg? Others could be mentioned, even Belgium in some respects. Can such practices be accepted? Yes or no? The question arises in concrete terms because a discussion is currently taking place at European level on the European list of tax havens. As I have told you, the French senators are defending the fact that Luxembourg is on this list, so that at least Luxembourg can be threatened. Otherwise, we will continue to do as always: Luxembourg amends some of its tax provisions to find others and remains a formidable tax haven. Mr Minister, this is the real question you unfortunately did not answer, but you will have to do so in the discussion with the finance ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u26	Mr Van Hees, may I ask you to conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u27	As for the question of the Belgian UBO register, which also shows many deficiencies, I do not have time to reply but I will return to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The fight against tax fraud is a priority for this government, including the fight against tax avoidance. After all, it is not just about fraud, but also about tax avoidance, which creates a great deal of incomprehension and frustration among workers and entrepreneurs who pay correct taxes every month. Every month a story of fraudulent practices pops up. This shows that the problem is big, but that also offers the opportunity to do something about it. I have confidence in your plan to tackle this problem in a structured manner and I hope that we can discuss that plan quickly here in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers. However, I would like to point out that what is legal is not necessarily moral. In this case, we have the right to question the interest of seeing companies of intellectual rights established in Luxembourg. Of course, as you said, these are not necessarily screen companies. Nevertheless, I believe that it is the legitimacy of the tax that must guide our common will – government and Parliament – in order to achieve a fiscal balance that is fair and proportional to what everyone can bring according to their abilities. In our view, it is important to put an end to such practices, which lie at the edge of the law by using all permitted strings, and which demonstrate how difficult it is to join a system of labour taxation when it is known that, moreover, not all means are mobilised to identify the schemes intended to evade taxation in Luxembourg. I am pleased to hear that your administration is working on the 25% threshold to enter the UBO register. Indeed, it is crucial to be able to better identify the beneficiaries. Anyway, I hope we have an opportunity to talk about it later. Finally, you did not really indicate what follow-up you intended to give to the files that were sent to the Luxembourg Public Prosecutor's Office, but I suppose you will have the opportunity to return to them later. I assume that all the aspects you have addressed will be reflected in the plan to combat tax evasion. In any case, my group will be extremely attentive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u30	Minister, on November 20, 2020, I asked you about the number of tax auditors. For the Special Tax Inspectorate (SII), you have stated that there are currently 427 agents. And you added that "in order to compensate for any future departure to the pension, the replacement measure 1 for 1 of the control functions will continue to apply". This answer is intriguing. In 2015, the ISI still had 672 agents, 571 of whom performed only tax controls. The government at the time had decided, like you, to replace the outgoing staff at 1:1. Four years later, on September 18, 2019, then Finance Minister Alexander De Croo confirmed this decision, saying that "the personnel plan was being implemented". However, at the hearing on 27 November 2019, the Chairman of the FPS Finance Management Committee, Mr D的Hondt, said that "the ISI has 620 staff", i.e. 52 members less than in 2015, while pointing out that "every departure is compensated by hiring." Unfortunately, he did not give the number of screening officers. Today, according to the minister's response, there are only 427 of them, a quarter less than in 2015. What is the evolution of the number of ISI staff in units and full-time equivalents since 2014? How many of these staff and FTEs were and are only assigned to tax controls? If these figures confirm those given above, how do you explain the blatant contradiction between the so-called 1/1 replacement rate and the drastic downsizing since 2015? On the basis of these facts, it is difficult to give you blind confidence in the future fulfilment of your promise of replacement 1/1. What concrete steps will you take to keep this promise in contrast to your predecessors? At the hearing on 27 November 2019, Mr.D的Hondt also stated that "a calculation showed that the ISI should ideally have 722 agents to be able to meet all the challenges". Do you intend to achieve such a goal? If not, why not? If so, what is the deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u31	Mr Van Hees, the different figures to which you refer vary according to the question of the total number of full-time equivalents on the one hand, and the number of full-time equivalents on the other. In 2018, of 570 FTEs, 420 FTEs had a control function. In 2019, the proportion was 420 out of 571 FTEs and 412 out of 578 FTEs in 2020. Prior to January 1, 2018, the control function figures were not yet available. As indicated in your question, the total population of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes increased from 664 agents to 612 between 2015 and 2020, a decrease of 8%. This corresponds to an annual reduction of 2 per cent in the FPS Finance staff budget, representing a total decrease of 8 per cent. It is logical that this phenomenon should be accompanied by a reduction in the number of agents. The SPF is committed to maintaining a stable number of control functions only since 2018, when an additional budget was allocated for this purpose. The years without budget cuts – 2019 and 2020 – have allowed us to slowly reverse the trend by providing enough recruitment in our staff plan. For the ISI in particular, we face the difficulty of recruiting sufficiently qualified and experienced staff, not to mention the impact of the health crisis on recruitment procedures. As a result, many functions unfortunately remain unoccupied. However, my administration is making every effort to remedy this. If all the recruitments provided for in the ISI personnel plan can be completed, the 2015 level – to which you refer – will again be reached. My administration already has an internal control system to ensure that unit replacement in the control functions will be performed properly. This mechanism is subject to the validation of the Finance Inspectorate, which ensures that this decision is properly implemented. In this area, an audit is a snapshot of the ideal number of temporary staff. The federal government's budgetary constraints are a reality that my administration and I must take into account. In this context, we are making every effort to ensure that the ISI can best accomplish its tasks within the resources allocated to it. As already explained in this committee, these resources are allocated to staff, but also increasingly to computer development, which promotes increasingly targeted control strategies. At this stage, I am struggling mainly to maintain the current number of ISI collaborators.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u32	Minister, I hear your answers. You confirm that there is a decrease in the number of agents, including comptrollers, at the Special Inspectorate of Taxes, despite the promises of your predecessors. Understand that your promise to you, we took it with some reserve. We want to trust you, of course, but we're careful. When you talk about hiring difficulties, that's something I've heard many times before as an argument. I also note that there is still an overall downsizing in the FPS Finance. In addition, it is also possible for the ISI to hire people who are already elsewhere in the FPS Finance. It is, of course, better to have in ISI people who already have control experience in other services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u33	You still have five seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u34	As for budgetary constraints, Minister, I still have to tell you that it does not make sense to mention budgetary constraints on a service that can bring a lot of money to the state. Tax control, especially of the ISI, makes money.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u35	Mr. Van Hees, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u36	Minister Timmermans, managing director of the FEB, proposed in an interview to L的Echo to "relaunch a system similar to notional interests". In response to the journalist's question as to whether this would not lead to a lifting of shields, Mr Timmermans replied that he was "seeking another name for this measure". It is recalled that at the time of the adoption of the notional interests in 2005, as the press later revealed, it was the chairman of the FEB's tax commission, Mr. Michel Alloo, who drafted the bill introducing the deduction, with the Minister of Finance Didier Reynders acting only as an intermediary between the employers' organization and Parliament. Therefore, Mr Timmermans' recent comments have called into question the power of the FEB with regard to tax legislation in our country. Minister, since the beginning of your term of office, have you had any contact with the FEB regarding the introduction or extension of corporate tax deductions? If so, was there any reference to measures approaching the deduction of notional interest? Do you intend to introduce, during this Parliament, new corporate tax deductions or expansions of existing deductions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u37	If interests are negative, what about notional interests? Do they have to be so negative?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u38	Mr Van Hees, as is the case with several organisations, we have received a note of questions and proposals from the FEB. Among other things, there is a tax deduction for corporate tax, including venture capital proposals. The government agreement does not provide for such corporate tax measures. On the other hand, as part of the post-covid-19 recovery plan, we are looking at the various possible avenues. It is premature, however, to say what directions the government will propose to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answers. If I understood correctly, you did not have an interview – physically or via videoconference – with the FEB on this subject, but you received written requests from the FEB in the direction of a system similar to notional interests. If I understand your answer for the rest, it is not provided for in the government agreement, but as part of the recovery plan, it is a path you are considering. I think that's a very bad idea. We have seen the terrible damage caused by notional interests, which have not had a proven effect on employment but have had a considerable budgetary impact. In the previous question, you referred to budgetary constraints. So it would be a bad idea to go in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u40	Mr. Chair, Minister, the schedules to the 2019 FPS Finance Annual Report are indicative of the 60% target of productive controls, which end in a taxable income supplement. This objective has been achieved for the IPP controls of individuals and SMEs and for the VAT control of SMEs, but not at the level of the tax controls of companies of SMEs, nor, above all, of large companies for which only 44% are required of productive controls, nor for the VAT controls of large companies which, decidedly, seem to be the subject of less attention on the part of the tax controllers. On the other hand, it is noted that revenue increases applied by the tax system to large companies fell significantly in 2019. Indeed, we are talking about a 60% drop compared to 2017. This increases from 3,569 million in 2017, to 2,209 million in 2018 and to 1,423 million in 2019. Not only are large companies significantly less affected by tax-taxed income supplements as a result of tax controls, but in addition, the amount of supplements has fallen sharply. Minister, how do you explain the differences between SMEs and large companies, both in terms of the proportion of productive controls and the performance of controls? According to Le Vif-L的Express, "the FPS Finances explains this decline by the sums recovered in 2017 and 2018 by the famous profit rulings granted to some 40 multinationals in the early 2000s, whose repayment the European Commission demanded". In the above-mentioned yield amounts, what are the amounts attributable to excess profit regulation in 2017, 2018 and 2019? For the same years, how many supervisory officers were assigned to the control of SMEs and to the control of large enterprises?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u41	Mr President, honourable Member, in response to your first question on the differences between SME and large business administrations in the proportion and performance of productive controls, I must point out that the 60% objective of productive controls to which you refer does not concern all control actions, but only a set of recurrent control actions selected at both central and local level. For all other control actions, there is no target for productivity or return. Productivity expressed as a percentage of modified returns relative to the total number of audited returns is, of course, a ratio monitored by the AG Taxation, but this ratio cannot be dissociated from the amounts of increased revenues earned. In fact, some actions with low productivity, however, lead to the recruitment of important supplements. I would add that my administration is also launching control actions which it knows are likely to be low in productivity and yield. But this is perfectly justified because the search for productivity and supplements is not the only goal that should be pursued when selecting the files to be checked. For example, declarations may also be subject to scrutiny in order to verify the correct application of new tax regulations or changes in taxpayers' compliance and international obligations. The increase in the revenue from the checks carried out in the context of the recovery of excess profit rules amounted to almost 2,350 million for 2017 and 495.5 million for 2018. In 2019, no checks were carried out as part of the excess profit rulings. I have figures on the number of staff assigned to the control of SMEs and large companies, but I will refrain from reading them; I will send you the document.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u42	Mr Minister, I would like to tell you that I am not looking at the 60% target of productive controls. What I see above all is that the proportion of productive controls is lower for large companies, and that increases have decreased for large companies. There is a gap between the results of the tax controls of small and medium-sized enterprises on the one hand and large enterprises on the other. That was the subject of my question. You have responded somewhere to everything, except the essential, to the hard core of my question: why do we see fewer results in the tax controls of large companies? Does that mean we're not putting enough money into it? Of course, the numbers of the staff will be crucial enough to be able to judge; you did not give them to me, but you will send them to me in writing. That was the essence of my question. Unfortunately, you have a little avoided that theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u43	Mr Minister, I am asking my question for once from a distance, given the weather conditions and my place of residence. I actually wanted to ask this question last week, but we did not get there at the time, so that the answer is already known to me because Mrs Demir replied last Wednesday in the Flemish Parliament. Of course, I'd like to verify that she's telling the right things 100%. The purchase of a home battery, which plays an important role in the issue of the solar panel bacle and the digital counter, is in principle paid 21 % VAT. However, if a property is renovated or if the property is older than 10 years old, the purchase may be subject to the tax rate of 6%. However, it is often an installation in a recent new home, which is subject to the rate of 21%. You know that the purchase by the Flemish government is supported by premiums. The Flemish premium was even extended until the end of 2021, and the total budget for this was also increased. Of course, Mrs Demir says a lot, but on 20 January she said she had contacted the federal government to see if a VAT reduction to 6% was possible for the home battery. I repeat: the people most affected are the people who have recently installed solar panels and who have, therefore, recently installed a digital meter. Not always, but often it's about recent homes. I have already heard that the answer to my question is negative, but you will tell me now?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u44	I am glad that you already know the answer, but I will still read out my full answer. Flemish Minister for Energy, Mrs Demir, has asked me to introduce a reduced VAT rate for the purchase of appliances capable of storing energy, in particular so-called home batteries. On the basis of the current provisions of the VAT Directive, Member States can only apply a reduced VAT rate to the categories of goods and services included in the exhaustive list annexed to this Directive. Since home batteries are not included in any of these categories, the introduction of a reduced VAT rate for the supply of such batteries would be contrary to European rules. On the other hand, the supply with the installation of such batteries, which are linked to an electrical installation, is already subject, under certain conditions, to the reduced VAT rate of 6%. This is the case, among other things, with renovation works on homes older than 10 years old. That's what you referred to earlier. The European Commission has drawn up a proposal to thoroughly reform existing European legislation on reduced VAT rates. This proposal would give Member States much more flexibility. This proposal is still under negotiation in the Council. In the context of these negotiations, I will be an advocate of a reduced VAT rate for transactions that contribute to energy optimisation. Therefore, pending this reform at European level, the demand for a reduced VAT rate on the supply of home batteries cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u45	Your answer was certainly an addition. I am pleased that you will be pressing for that proposal from the European Commission on investment in energy optimisation. Then it is indeed about storing excess produced solar energy at home via a battery. This is of course important for people with digital meters. That's kind of good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u46	Minister, we saw another example of tax evasion at Lotus. It seems that Lotus, the Belgian company that produces the famous speculos, was pinned up because she would have sought to evade tax. A tax survey was conducted by the Belgian, Dutch and French tax authorities. This company with an estimated turnover of 63 million in 2015 would have artificially transferred income from the company to a subsidiary in Switzerland in order to pay less taxes. In this investigation, inadequate transfer pricing is involved in order to avoid tax, since 15% of real sales in France are moved to a gross marketing margin of 0.5%. We transfer profit to more tax-friendly skies. Minister, do you confirm that the Belgian administration has been informed of this investigation? The transfer price played an essential role in the French side of the case. Do you intend to improve the definition of a transfer price between entities of the same parent company? What are the means to control the calculation itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u47	Minister, according to the newspaper Le Soir, the Belgian multinational Lotus – whose former Prime Minister CD&V had been an administrator – was pinned in 2019 by a tax investigation in three countries, including Belgium, for artificially transferring a maximum of income to its Swiss subsidiary in order to evade taxes. Once this tax avoidance had been based on the manipulation of transfer prices, it would have been investigators from Ghent's "large companies" pole who conducted the research. This case once again highlights the importance of combating the manipulation of transfer prices, which are considered to be the most important abusive tax technique of multinationals in the world. Hence the interest in investing sufficient resources in the fiscal control of transfer prices, particularly in Belgium. Minister, how many staff are currently in the FPS Finance unit dealing with transfer pricing, in units and full-time equivalents? What is the annual evolution of these two numbers since 2014? How many files have been processed annually since 2014 by this cell, and on what amount were these files on? Annually since 2014, how many of these cases resulted in tax supplements and what were the amounts of these supplements?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, no specific information can be provided on individual control files and my administration is bound by professional secrecy. Therefore, I cannot answer your first question. You're referring to a transfer pricing check. Such a case is by definition international in nature, the so-called arm's length principle being tested in accordance with the OECD Model Convention. These OECD guidelines have been improved and updated as a result of the BEPS project. I would also like to refer to the February 2020 circular clarifying the position of the administration in relation to these developments. The OECD's transfer pricing guidelines are important for achieving an international consensus on how the arm's length principle should be interpreted. The next major development is already under development and concerns the digital economy as well as the minimum tax base of the multinational – the so-called OECD Pillar 1 and 2 projects – with each of them also having an impact on the interpretation or subsequent development of the arm's length principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u49	Minister, you have only limited speaking time. You may speak in full, but I must give the time limits out of respect for the speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u50	Mr President, I have two times two minutes for my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u51	Excuse me. I'd missed that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u52	Mr President, I follow that very closely. In fact, I will ensure that, despite the interruption, I can reply within the time limit. My administration is closely following this development at the international level and is always examining whether the regulatory framework for transfer pricing needs to be adapted or strengthened. The complexity of transfer pricing requires quality rather than quantity. But here, Mr Van Hees, are the figures that you have requested and that can be provided in such a short time. In 2016, there were 24 collaborators. Then there were, successively, 29, 28, 35, 38, and finally, 37 in 2021. In 2016, 290 data slips were encoded. Then there were 320, 299, 397 and 290 in 2020. Producer vouchers were 120 in 2016, followed by 133, 113, 145 and 122 in 2020. In 2016, the related revenue increase was $600 million, followed by $430 million, $540 million, $597 million and $451 million in 2020. Tax supplements related to these files were $52 million in 2016, then $59 million, $89 million, $77 million, and $67 million in 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u53	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer. Of course, the question of transfer pricing is at the heart of a series of practices and I think we will have the opportunity to come back to it. It is not only about being able to do this calculation – you said there were 37 people in the cell – but it is also about enforcing the correct calculation of the transfer price by these inspectors. This is the same debate we had before. It is essential to be able to adhere to this system of fair contributions by everyone and thus have a fair tax collection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u54	Minister, every time you invoke the professional secrecy of the tax and therefore yours, so that you do not have to rule on files. I find this way of looking at things abusive. Professional secrecy should not be treated in the same way for an individual as for a multinational. Corporate accounts are public; why would there be a secret on tax matters? With regard to the number of FPS Finance officers dealing with transfer pricing, I am pleased to see some increase, but 37 people, this remains little in relation to the issue. File amounts are calculated in hundreds of millions and tens of millions for tax supplements. This shows how agents working on these files could bring back money. From a budgetary point of view, therefore, this is a miscalculation. It is the same as for the ISI: downsizing is not interesting because, the more important they are, the more money can be raised from fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u55	With this question, Minister, I will take you to the income exempt under double taxation treaties in Belgium. Those revenues are also included in order to determine the tax rate on the non-freed income in our country, which we call the progression retention. Those involved end up in a higher tax scale because of that countdown. On 22 October 2019, the Antwerp appeal court ruled in a judgment on certain income exempt but taxed separately in Belgium. That particular judgment concerned an annuity benefit. The Court of Appeal stated that those revenues should not be taken into account, so they should not be included in the progression reservation. If we think a little bit wider than that particular case, we will find several other revenues that are taxed in the same, separate way in Belgium, for example cancellation fees. In the current corona situation, it is quite possible that frontier workers, i.e. nationals working abroad, may be confronted with this situation. They may receive a redundancy allowance, a kind of transition premium, which may or may not be taken into account in Belgium for the purposes of determining the tax rate. Your predecessor has already stated that a circular on this subject is being worked on and that no appeal to cassation is being brought. Minister, has a circular been drawn up yet? Is this only about the annuity benefit or does that circular look at the problem more broadly? If there is no circular yet, when can it be expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u56	Mr Matheï, my administration is currently finalising a circular and looking at the double taxation treaties for which, in addition to the Belgian-Dutch Convention, there is no application of the retention of progress in the case of separately taxable income. Moreover, the circular will not be limited to annuity. Other separately taxable income will also be taken into account, e.g. cancellation fees. In principle, this circular will be published in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. It is good that this circular is being worked out. After all, this circular will be necessary in order to clarify definitively for people in such cases who benefit from benefits. I look forward to the publication of the circular.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u59	In Flanders care homes are described as creating a smaller and subordinate residence within an existing home, so that up to two older or needy persons can live in. The subordinate housing unit shall form one physical whole with the main dwelling and shall not be a detached annex building or mobile care unit. In addition, the subordinate housing unit may in fact constitute no more than one third of the total building volume, excluding the spaces shared with the main dwelling. Finally, it is necessary that the main house and subordinate housing unit belong to the same bare owner. When the builder builds a care home that is to be classified as a single-family home because it is not self-contained accommodation units, for example in the case of apartments, the care home is one unit, the maximum habitable area of which is limited to 20 m2 for the application of the reduced VAT rate. However, the areas of all the living quarters of this care home must be grouped together. Where the care home is nevertheless classified as a multi-family home, which is to be reflected in factual elements, and the owner of both houses, the criterion of "only residence" is not fulfilled in his submission. Mrs Hanus, in your question, you are considering the case in which a new dwelling is sold after the demolition of a building on the same plot, in accordance with Article 1erquater §3 of Royal Decree No 20 on VAT rates. VAT on the sale of a residential building under this measure which, in accordance with Article 17(1) of the VAT Code, becomes payable from 1 January 2021 until 31 December 2022 inclusive, may, under the conditions laid down, amount to 6%. This also applies to ongoing projects. Advance payments invoiced or paid before 1 January 2021 obviously remain subject to the normal VAT rate. No regularisation is possible with respect to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u60	Mr President, I would just like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u62	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Aouasti's 55013136C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u63	Minister, we need to talk again about the owners of solar panels, in particular about Mrs Demir's one-off compensation measure, which she is currently implementing. It is reported that the compensation for private individuals would be considered as exceptional income and thus not taxed. But what about companies? Mrs Demir claims that she is still in consultation with you for companies and companies. In particular, it examines whether there are legal and fiscal possibilities to avoid taxing that exceptional income. However, she did not want to anticipate the consultations. Can you give us an update on the discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u64	Mr Ravyts, the Flemish Government has indeed put forward a framework, but the rules on financial compensation for owners of solar panels obviously still need to be worked out. It is therefore premature to take a position on this at this stage. We have, of course, been in contact with Mrs Demir, but it is, as has been said, premature to take a position.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u65	Minister, I understand that, because the legal texts are still to be published at Flemish level. I believe that this is what we are talking about in April. However, I would urge you to be sympathetic as far as possible. The context is known: solar panels play a very important role in the energy transition, as the geographical conditions allow wind energy to be limited in Flanders, and sufficient profitability of solar panels is therefore certainly important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u66	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Laaouej converted 55013436 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u67	Illegal gambling sites are already included in the blacklist of the gambling commission. Those who play on illegal gambling sites and those who exploit them are already sanctioned by the gambling commission under the current legislation. You then refer to the fact that operators would not be taxed in Belgium and you would like to remedy this by means of a proposal for an ordinary law that you have submitted to establish a tax on online gambling and betting operations with unauthorized operators. However, existing tax legislation is already applicable to unauthorised gambling and betting. With regard to the federal tax that you suggest in your proposal for an ordinary law, the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Special Financing Act of 16 January 1989 replaced by the Special Act of 13 July 2001 provides that the tax on games and betting is a regional tax. In its opinion 66 951/3 of 26 February 2020, the Council of State notes that this is a measure which reduces the taxable matter and limits the possibility for the Regions to exercise their powers. The Council of State decided that the draft law could not succeed in the form in which it had been submitted, which required a majority defined in the last paragraph of article 4 of the Constitution. With regard to the taxation of unauthorized operators, it should be noted that this is a global issue. In view of its international character, this problem calls for a multilateral solution either at the OECD level or at the European level. The work currently under way at OECD level on the tax challenges raised by the digitisation of the economy could provide a new tool for understanding the phenomenon. This work is expected to be completed by half this year. The European Union is working in parallel with an alternative solution whose details are not yet known.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u68	Minister, thank you for your answer. Two possibilities were open to us: trying to ban the practice of illegal gambling sites or tax them. I interviewed the Minister of Justice earlier. He told me to take matters into my own hands and in particular to discuss them with the banking operators to prevent payment by credit card. Normally, we're going to go to prohibition and repression either by Internet operators or by banking operators, but I hear your answer. If we can't stop it then we will have to use taxation, that was the meaning of the proposal that we had put forward at the time. She's still waiting, but anyway we have the same vision of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u69	Minister, I have already asked you about this question. The government has taken a number of important steps in relation to the Corona context. In the context of the tax shelter on cultural operators in particular, the government has foreseen that it is possible to postpone certain projects on other projects in view of the cancellations of performances. When we take the case, for example, of the Liège Orchestra, he had to cancel shows, report them to a second show, which also had to be cancelled in view of the persistence of the crisis. Since the postponement is only allowed once, the Liège Orchestra risks losing the funds collected. The question is whether it is possible to postpone a second time, in very specific cases and justified by evidence, to another show which can take place as soon as possible back to the theatres.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u70	As part of the temporary support measures due to the pandemic, the necessary conditions have been laid down for a framework convention to be amended to designate another eligible work. I would remind you of the essential condition: "this is the first and only amendment to the Framework Convention with a view to designating another eligible work". Like you, I can understand that it is desirable to alleviate this condition as the health crisis continues. It is not possible for me to take action contrary to the law. In my view, the lifting of this strict condition of first and only amendment could be linked to the following two additional conditions: to limit this possibility to the modified framework agreements first time at the latest by 31 January 2021 and to specify that this eligible work must be carried out by the same production company.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u71	Minister, I will see what is possible. When one tells an operator that he cannot open his room, that he is allowed to report to another show and that for the other show, he is told that he cannot open his room, there is a problem! It is not the same operator, it is an orchestra that provides for works financed by operators' aids in the field of tax shelter and it is the successive prohibitions that prevent you from playing. He will have to repay the money to the operators who wanted to finance a show when they could finance a next show. I'll see if the conditions are met for most operators. I'm not sure that's the case. If that is not the case, I will come back a third time, but with a proposal to amend the legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u72	Mr President, Minister, at the end of March 2020, at the first bazooka, the federal government offered a number of measures to the population, including the families, to obtain an individual deferment of payment of taxes, without fines and negligence. Following the outbreak of the second wave at the end of October, a broad socio-economic aid package was decided on 6 November, which included the extension of a number of fiscal measures, including the possibility of individual deferment of tax payments without fines and negligence. This time, this measure will apply until 31 March 2021. A number of people, including entrepreneurs, are asking me questions about this. We are not talking about credits now, but we are talking about taxes. Do you think that a further extension of this specific measure on corporate tax, personal income tax, legal property tax and non-residents' tax is appropriate in the current context?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u73	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, not all companies or citizens are equally affected by the corona crisis. Some differentiation is therefore certainly appropriate. A system of individual aid measures, which can be granted on a tailor-made basis and which can be applied for in a very simple way, has therefore been opted for. This is, of course, preferable to generally applicable measures, such as a generalised extension of payment deadlines. However, the package of possible aid measures is wide ranging from wide pay-off plans, the exemption from negligence interests to the cancellation of possible fines for late payment, all to be assessed in the light of the specific situation and the extent to which the applicant is affected by the crisis. These special measures apply provisionally until 31 March 2021, but they will of course be evaluated on a permanent basis. A possible extension will be decided in the course of the following weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I look forward to that with interest. I'll communicate it that way, too. In the current context, which is not the same as at the end of March and April last year, an individual approach is indeed logical.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u75	Mr President, Mr Minister, the President of the MR, Georges-Louis Boucher, said in Echo that he wants a "tax shield" of 33% on the tax of natural persons: the average tax rate would be capped at 33%. I quote: "We want to lower taxes for the middle and popular classes." It seems, however, that the highest incomes would benefit most from such a reform. Mr. Boucher, for example, would earn some 38,000 euros a year through such a reform. My questions are as follows, minister. First, in the distribution of taxpayers in deciles – per person and not per return – what deciles would benefit from such a 33% cap? Secondly, what would be the budgetary cost of such a cap? Thirdly, even if the details of the future major tax reform contained in the government agreement are not yet known, do you think that Mr Boucher's statements are in line with what this reform should be? Finally, in the current state of your thinking about the future tax reform, should it go in the direction of greater progressivity in the taxation of natural persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u76	Mr Van Hees, I will send you a table showing the figures you asked for. On the basis of the results of this calculation and the table of figures, it appears that taxpayers who would benefit from a personal tax cap at an average rate of 33 % are taxpayers in the tenth decile with an average rate of more than 33 %. The SIRe micro-simulation model currently does not allow for the calculation of the budgetary cost of such a cap per individual because some elements of the tax calculation are not calculated per individual. This is particularly the case with the special social security contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u77	Mr Minister, thank you for your answer, it is very clear, in any case, on the first question I asked. Mr Boucher, the president of the MR, said that this measure would lower taxes for the middle and popular classes, but you will tell us that the 33 per cent cap would only benefit the tenth decile, the richest 10 per cent of the population. Your statistical answer is quite clear about Mr Boucher's remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u78	Mr President, Minister, it is up to us that a commission to prepare for the same major future tax reform would have been set up and would have looked at the report of the Finance Council of May 2020. Minister, if you confirm these facts, what is the composition of this commission? On what criteria have its members been appointed? Does the FPS Finance Study Service collaborate in this work? How? What is the timing of this commission? Are there deadlines for any intermediate conclusions? What is the procedure for the validation of proposals from this committee? Does this commission consult with certain actors in society? If so, which ones? Are employers' organisations involved? What about trade unions, non-governmental organizations, public or private study centres? Will the Commission's documents and reports be public? How will Members be able to consult them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u79	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, the government agreement has indeed announced a thorough tax reform. It also detailed the objectives and principles. We are working on the chronology of this reform and determining who should be advised in the context of this reform. As you said, the Supreme Council of Finance recommends the creation of a preparatory commission. For now, it's not clear. I expect to have a precise and definitive timetable to move forward in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u80	Mr Minister, according to your answer, no preparatory committee has yet considered this tax reform. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u81	The establishment of a preparatory committee is a proposal of the Higher Finance Council. Based on the final schedule, we assess how we can implement this proposal and work with the Higher Finance Council. We need to look closely at how we can best integrate the input of all actors into the final reform of our taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u82	Minister, thank you for your answer. As I understand it, for the time being, it is only within your office that we are working on this. No committee has yet considered it. That is what I understand from your answer, which is not very clear, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u83	Minister, according to the latest inventory of tax expenditure (the 2018 inventory of 11 December 2020), the amount of revenue definitively taxed – the famous RTD – more than doubled between 2017 and 2018, reaching the astronomical amount of 15.6 billion euros. How do you explain such a leap in the use of this tax niche? What would be the budgetary impact if, in order to implement the European Mother-daughter Directive, our legislation were to use the imputation mechanism which, in my opinion, would be less favourable a priori and the amount of which would be less important?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u84	Companies reported much more revenue definitively taxed in fiscal year 2019 than in previous years and this is mainly due to the removal of the 5% charge on definitively taxed revenues. The available data are insufficient to estimate the budgetary impact in the event that Belgium chooses not to exempt RTD and to grant tax credits equal to the corporate tax levied abroad on profits collected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u85	I understand that the tax reform which has increased the deduction of RTD from 95 % to 100 % is mainly in favour of large companies, which benefit more from tax niches. [[How, however, can we double the amount from a deduction of 95% to 100%?]] The explanation is bizarre at the computational level. So if you don't have a better (...) (problem of sound), I find your answer quite surprising, minister. Damage for the impossibility of making the calculation on imputation, which would be quite interesting to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u86	Minister, according to the latest inventory of tax expenditures, the amount of another tax niche, that of capital gains realized on shares or shares with RTD regime, jumped to 5.8 billion in 2018 when it was below the billion in previous years. This is not a doubling, but a six-fold multiplication, more than 500 per cent. How do you explain this sharp increase? How do you justify maintaining such an expensive tax niche? How do you justify discrimination between companies with a stake of more than €2.5 million and those who benefit from the exemption and those whose participation is less than this amount and who do not benefit from such a tax niche?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u87	Mr President, the amount of capital gains realized on shares or shares with a RTD regime is higher in 2018 than in previous years because the companies realized more capital gains on the shares in the 2019 financial year. This results in an increase in the corresponding tax burden. These amounts vary greatly from year to year when the data are reviewed over a longer period of time. The current regime for the exemption of capital gains on shares or shares, covered by the CIR, was introduced by the Law of 23 October 1991 transposing into Belgian law the 1990 Directive on the common system of taxation applicable to parent companies and subsidiaries. According to the statement of reasons of the 1991 Act, the purpose of the new measure is to create a regime for the exemption of capital gains on such securities, so as to avoid double economic taxation of such income. The justification added that the latter had already been subject in principle to income tax when the profits realized by the company whose securities are sold were set aside. The condition for exempting capital gains on shares or shares, provided for by the above-mentioned law, is that their income may be deducted as RTD. As a corollary to this exemption, the same law provided, as a compensatory measure, that value reductions and losses on shares or shares are not tax deductible. The conditions for exempting capital gains have become more stringent since 2018. Until then, these conditions referred to the so-called qualitative conditions for RTD, excluding the minimum conditions for participation. The minimum share must be 10% or EUR 2.5 million in the capital of the company which distributes the dividends in order to deduct RTD. Since 2018, this minimum participation requirement has also been addressed in the area of capital gains exemption such as RTD. The minimum requirement for participation in this field has existed since 1 January 1997. Companies which do not hold a €2.5 million stake may nevertheless benefit from the capital gains exemption on shares, provided that they hold a 10% stake at the time of the realization of the capital gains and that the shares or shares comply with the other RTD conditions. Therefore, these conditions of exemption are not discriminatory on the sole ground that the minimum of EUR 2.5 million is not met.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u88	Minister, thank you for your long explanation. I want to answer you: all this for this! You claim to see no discrimination. Yet, minister, there is one. A large company which holds less than 10 % of capital in a holding, but whose amount exceeds 2.5 million, is allowed to deduct capital gains. On the other hand, a small company which holds less than 10% but has a shareholding of less than EUR 2.5 million is not entitled to do so. Therefore, this discrimination between small and large companies does exist, Minister, contrary to what you say. This is also true of the RTD report, which we have just mentioned. In short, I note that you cannot justify this discrimination, since you are contesting its existence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u89	Mr. Chair, Minister, one more final question about the latest inventory of tax expenditures. The amount of revenue taking advantage of the tax niche "plus-value on inland waterway boat" rose from less than 1 million euros in 2017 – we are no longer in the billions of euros from previous tax niches – to 33 million euros in 2018. Since the creation of this niche in 2017, however, the amount of revenue concerned has never exceeded 2.96 million euros. The maximum was $3 million, and now we're up to $33 million. Minister, again, how do you explain the explosion in the use of this tax niche? Should we expect similar figures for the following years? Do you think that this tax niche is still justified? Why?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u90	Sir, the figure has indeed increased, and this comes from the fact that for the 2019 financial year, a company has recorded a significant added value on inland vessels. We assume that this surplus value is not recurring. In order to benefit from the exemption, gains on inland navigation vessels intended for commercial navigation must be reinvested in inland navigation vessels meeting the environmental standards set out in the Income Tax Code. This derogation remains justified in order to support these investments. Mr President, in this way I will ensure that the average of my two answers remains below two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u91	Minister, thank you for that answer. I note that it was only one company that made the tax niche multiplied by 10 or even 30. This may raise questions about the importance of such an added value. But since we don't know the details, we don't know what society it is, and we don't know the details of surplus value, it's obviously difficult to get into the explanations, beyond the ones you've given.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u92	According to La Libre Belgique, customs officers have been unable to carry out checks on public roads since October 2020. The reason is to find an adaptation to the Road Traffic Code that came into force in 2020. Customs officers have no or more priority vehicles since the profession is not included in the list of those who benefit from priority vehicles. According to the daily newspaper, if a customs officer finds himself in a situation that poses a problem, he will be unable to prosecute the potential fraudster. A trade union representative from the FPS Finance reported that customs officers had learned that no longer would they be allowed any priority control or conduct missions. The operations, which were temporarily suspended, are interrupted until further notice. They point out that "if an individual circulates on the public road with a shipment of narcotics, we will be unable to do anything because we have no control power anymore". Customs officers can therefore carry a weapon, but are not entitled to a priority vehicle. Questioned by the press, the FPS Finance referred the question to the Mobility FPS, which responded that it had not received any requests, but was prepared to make any changes in collaboration with the Finance FPS. Is it therefore correct, minister, that since October customs officers are no longer able to carry out controls on the highway? If so, how do you justify that four months later, a solution has not been put in place for such an important issue? How do you intend to resolve this situation and within what time frame? Customs officers indicate that one of the causes of the situation would be an almost systematic omission of their profession in new provisions. What are you going to do to ensure that customs officers are not forgotten in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u93	With regard to this issue, it is important to stress first of all that it is not fair that our customs officers can no longer carry out checks on public roads. During the period 1 and 12 October 2020, controls on customs officials' public roads were temporarily suspended because of the legal uncertainty created by the replacement of section 59.13 of the Highway Traffic Code. This situation was rectified by the publication of an erratum in the Belgian Monitor on 12 October 2020. Next, controls on the highway immediately resumed. Moreover, it is true that customs is not included in the category of priority vehicles, which does not prevent checks on public roads. This situation is not optimal. Officers of the General Customs and Excise Administration are entitled to overspeed but are not included in the list of priority drivers who are not required to comply with the Highway Traffic Code. Legislation falls within the competence of the Minister of Mobility. I've already sent him a letter to draw his attention to the problem. I'm still waiting for an answer and I'll call her back in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u94	Minister, thank you for your answer. The first part of your answer is reassuring. The second is less so. One wonders why customs officials cannot have priority vehicles. We know that the Minister of Mobility is currently experiencing other political difficulties that are more priority, but it is still hoped that this situation will be resolved within a reasonable time frame.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u95	Minister, I have already asked you – or your predecessor – about the participation of public servants in private seminars. This will still be the case on March 11, 2021. Larcier organises a webinar "Masterclass VAT 2021" at a price of 355 euros per participant. FPS Finance officials are among the speakers. We also know that there will be Véronique Tai, the former President of the Advance Rulings Service (ADS). You told me that she would not attend seminars when you answered my previous question. It appears that I do. This raises questions that I am not going to base here on impartiality and on the lack of equity and equality between taxpayers, those who follow these seminars and those who do not follow them. Minister, this is another issue I want to address. How are the revenues received by these officials when participating in such seminars as speakers taxed? Are they considered to be professional income or other income? If it is a question of various incomes, can you tell me what motivates this qualification?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u96	Sir, revenues received by FPS Finance officials as a counterpart to their participation as a speaker in a private seminar or webinar are taxable in terms of income taxes, either as business income or as miscellaneous income. The question of whether this activity as a speaker constitutes a gainful occupation of a professional nature is assessed by my administration on the basis of all the elements of fact, including the general principle of verifying whether the activity is part of a sufficiently large and interlinked set of transactions. It is therefore not possible to make an evaluation on the basis of an announcement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u97	Minister, there is some logic in your answer. But what is a bit surprising is that each time it is a situation that is quite similar. These are officials who, in my opinion, are professionally full-time civil servants, and who give seminars, during their hours or outside their hours, no matter what. You say it depends on the situation, on the facts. However, these elements of fact are generally the same for each of these officials. It is quite surprising that you cannot give a general rule and a general qualification to these revenues. I have the impression that we are rather, here, in the desire to conceal the reality of the taxation of these officials. It can be understood that this is taxed in terms of professional or other income. In any case, your refusal to respond is somewhat embarrassing, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u98	Mr President, Minister, on December 23, it was announced that bpost, whose majority shareholder remains the Belgian state, will sell its 50% stake in bpost bank to BNP Paribas Fortis, which already owns the other half of the capital. A letter of intent has been signed, indicating that it is much more than a vague idea, even though the agreement is non-binding at this stage. This news is disturbing. Indeed, the most accessible bank in the country, one of the only banks that continues to ensure the possibility of going to a physical office, will be sold by this government to a bank that aims only to make a maximum profit. Clients and workers will pay the costs. The government would thus abandon its most important lever to maintain a public bank that could serve the public. Such a decision would be part of the destruction of public services for the benefit of the private sector. Minister, who is on the initiative of this decision? What role did the federal government and the SFPI play? How do you justify this privatization? How does this privatisation fit into the logic of the government agreement, according to which the SFPI will be able to assume an important role in anchoring strategic assets for the country? In the context of the growing number of complaints to ensure universal access to ticket distributors, would it not be wiser to keep bpost bank in public hands in order to provide this basic service? What will be the consequences for customers and bpost bank workers in terms of services, working conditions, wages, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Will guarantees be imposed on the buyer? According to press reports, BNP Paribas Fortis will pay between 100 and 120 million euros for the purchase. How was this price determined?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u99	Mr Van Hees, you still have seven seconds to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u100	As a minority but important shareholder of BNP Paribas, the parent company of BNP Paribas Fortis, the Belgian state has directors on its board of directors. Did these administrators question the purchase of the remaining 50% of La Poste's bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u101	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, this decision was taken at the joint initiative of the two shareholders of bpost bank (bpost and BNP Paribas Fortis), in close consultation with the board of directors of bpost bank. It concerns the most appropriate future business model of joint venture between two publicly traded companies. As a bpost shareholder, SFPI has not played any specific role in this regard. This decision is due to the current context of low margins, low interest rates and the high capital requirement to keep a relatively small independent bank afloat. This operation does not alter bpost anchoring. As a strategic tool and key service provider for the Belgian economy, bpost and BNP Paribas are committed to a long-term partnership in which their sustainable business relationship is based on a common outreach strategy in which both partners wish to offer financial services in a network of agencies close to citizens. Thus the added value of the bpost network is confirmed for the future and bpost customers can continue to rely on an excellent and accessible service in their immediate environment. The price of the transaction is calculated on the basis of the net asset value of IFRS and normal market practices for the valuation of a financial institution. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are an international accounting standard for listed companies. SFPI is not aware of any confidential discussions regarding this transaction within the BNP Paribas Board of Directors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u102	Minister, to my knowledge, this is the first privatization led by this government, which is still composed of four out of seven left-wing parties, your party being not considered a left-wing party. I find this to be a matter of concern. You seem to justify this, saying that this is not going to change anything. I think, for my part, that privatisations in Belgium have shown the opposite: a significant impact on both staff and customers, especially as far as banks are concerned. I recall that BNP Paribas Fortis is itself the result of successive privatisations, as well as bpost bank. We are therefore in the process of continuing this privatisation process. I thought the Vivaldi government was going to take a different course, but I see that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u103	Mr Minister, we are still in the context of a possible privatisation. This is Ethias. According to one of De Tijd's and L'Echo's newspapers of 27 January, the government would consider selling its 31.66% stake in the insurer Ethias, the insurer saved during the 2008 crisis, with the taxpayer's money. An intermediary was reportedly mandated by the State to find potential buyers. The initiative is clearly not unanimous within the government. If he did not intervene in the bpost file, Minister Dermagne said "it will be without me", stating that for the PS, it would be non-negotiable. In the government agreement, there is also no mention of any sale. This approach is therefore, to say the least, surprising. My questions are as follows. Is it true that the government has mandated an intermediary to investigate potential buyers? Who suggested and who made the decision about this survey? You? The Prime Minister? Another member of the government? Has this approach been mentioned in advance in the Council of Ministers? You told La Libre Belgique, I quote, that "we must always look at the market and see if there is interest in Ethias." Why do we always have to do this? Why did it do for Ethias and not for Belfius or BNP Paribas? Is it your position that, if a good opportunity arises, Ethias should be sold? You also said that "it is still possible that Ethias remains in standalone". What are the conditions that you think should determine whether Ethias should be sold or not? Finally, don't you think it would be wiser to keep Ethias, who is still the third insurer in the country with 9% of the market, in public hands? To seek more synergies precisely with Belfius, also in public hands? To organise these two pillars in order to provide a truly public insurance and banking service at the service of people, instead of leaving the entire financial sector to the market and the pursuit of profit?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u104	Ethias has had a great journey since the three governments came to her rescue during the financial crisis more than ten years ago. We are regularly contacted by parties expressing an interest in the company. This proves that the company is on the right track. I asked the SFPI to do an objective analysis of the various options. It is part of the mission of the Federal Investment and Participation Corporation to regularly review its holdings, review policy options and advise the government on these issues. This does not imply any decision in either direction. SFPI assumes its responsibility as a shareholder and will continue to do so. The interests of the company, its role in our economy and the interests of all concerned are paramount.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u105	Minister, thank you for your answers. [[...]] It is noted that some members of the government are not on the same line as you. You seem to be open to such privatization. You even find it a positive sign that companies are interested in the takeover of Ethias. It was you who decided to do this market study based on the fact that interested companies contacted you. Finally, I see that it is the private manoeuvring. When you have private impulses, you react by doing this kind of study. It is not my view of the political world that, in my view, should take initiatives instead of being dictated by the private sector. I note it's yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u106	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanden Burre's 55013593C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u107	Mr Matheï, the registration of a rental contract is different depending on whether it is offered through the MyRent application, via the MyRent web service or through a scanned form. Moreover, it also depends on whether it is a free registration or a rental contract on which registration fees are due. In order to answer your questions, it is useful to explain the procedures for registering rental contracts. The answer seems to me to be too comprehensive in the context of an oral question, so I would ask you to turn your question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u108	Mr. Secretary, I will do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u109	Mr President, Minister, in the first Corona Act we have stipulated that certain allowances are exempt from tax. Last year there was a circular on its practical application. It stipulated that a calculation note should be attached to the tax bill and that any person who grants fees should provide the necessary information to the tax authorities via fact sheets. Local authorities will also have to do so. Local authorities have developed a wide range of support measures, ranging from the exemption from rental or concession fees to vouchers for shopping in local businesses or the delivery of corona protection materials. At present, it is not clear to local authorities exactly which sheets should be drawn up. At the same time, there is a certain amount of concern: if every resident of the municipality who has received a voucher is required to draw up a sheet, then this may lead to a disproportionate amount of time. Can you clarify which chips should be made up by local authorities? How can it be avoided that there is a disproportionate amount of time in it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u110	Mr President, Mr Matheï, sheet 281.99 is the new sheet introduced because the Law of 29 May 2020 on various urgent tax measures as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic stipulates that the amounts exempted under Article 6 on the tax bill must be entered in the personal tax of the persons concerned. This new sheet should mention only defined profits, income and remuneration of employees and managers, which are in principle taxable in the personal income tax but which are exempted under certain conditions by the Law of 29 May 2020. In the case of corona fees, which are in principle taxable in corporation tax, non-residents' tax, natural persons and non-residents' tax, but which are covered by the exemption from the same law, no sheet 281.99 but the existing sheet 281.93 must be drawn up. This sheet must be drawn up only in so far as the total amount of the compensation granted per recipient per year of income exceeds EUR 620. In the case of corona fees which do not comply with the various conditions of exemption laid down in Article 6, and which constitute profits and benefits for the purchaser, the municipality must draw up a sheet 281.50, both for natural persons and for companies and non-profit organisations. On the other hand, in the case of corona fees which do not comply with the different conditions for exemption laid down in Article 6 and which are not profits and income to the purchaser, a fact sheet No. 281.93 to the extent that the total amount of the compensation granted per recipient per revenue year exceeds EUR 620. In concrete terms, this means that there is no need to draw up sheets 281.99 for consumer vouchers awarded by municipalities to their vulnerable residents because they are not covered by the taxable amounts referred to above, provided that they are not intended to compensate for benefits. If necessary, a sheet 281.93 should be drawn up if the total amount awarded per acquirer per year exceeds EUR 620. I think that your question has been answered, although I admit that it is not a simple matter and that there are many fact sheets.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u111	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed a whole list of types of chips, but I think we can conclude that it is mainly the Winkelhierbons that are issued because they are mostly covered by those amounts and do not need a sheet. It is important that communication about the method gets well to the local authorities. Perhaps it is also useful to consult with the VVSG, so that communication can be done in a good way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u112	Mr Minister, a resolution has recently been adopted by the European Parliament on the reform of the list of tax havens of the European Union. Although the European Parliament recognises that the current list has been effective, it underlines its shortcomings, both in terms of the criteria for the inclusion of States on the list, as well as in the courts currently on the list, or in terms of the transparency of decisions on the subject. To remedy these imperfections, the European Parliament calls for several reforms of this list, so that it better fulfils its role in the fight against fiscal crime and for greater tax fairness. For example, the proposed amendments include the automatic registration of states that do not tax companies or introduce the tax at the 0-rate. The European Parliament also calls for a more transparent decision-making process to be implemented by the Code of Conduct group responsible for drawing up the list. In addition, the resolution calls for stronger sanctions for listed countries, as well as for companies that take advantage of them to evade taxes. In addition, it considers that the same rules should be applied for the States of the Union and third States concerning inclusion on the list. Finally, it calls on the Commission and the Council to propose a minimum tax rate. Reforming this list is indeed a necessity: at present, only 2% of global tax losses come from the target countries, while, at the same time, European states – not included in the list and while what was happening in Luxembourg a few days ago – were among the top 10 tax havens for companies in 2019. At the same time, 86% of Europeans are in favour of tightening the rules to combat tax evasion according to the autumn 2016 Eurobarometer. How do you welcome this resolution? In view of the ECOFIN which will take place on 16 February, what will be Belgium's position on this subject? Would this not be an opportunity to defend the above-mentioned progress in view of the commitments made in the government agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u113	Mr Bayet, the resolution adopted by the European Parliament on the list of tax havens is a good basis and at the same time contains a number of elements which still need to be analysed in depth. The resolution can be analysed in detail and discussed within the framework of the code of conduct without delaying the work of revising and adapting the criteria. Discussions on the extension of the list are under way in the preparatory working group. Belgium reiterated its support for the revision of the criteria and the scope of the European list at ECOFIN on 1 December 2020 and will continue to play a constructive role in further improving the process of listing the European Union. Fair taxation is a key element for the Belgian government. We must maintain the pressure to fight harmful tax practices. In this regard, Belgium has already taken several defensive measures against the non-cooperative courts on the European Union list since 1 January this year, the law of 20 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u114	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am very pleased to hear your willingness to fight tax evasion. I will read carefully Belgium's position at the next ECOFIN Summit and what you will put on the table to try to advance, in the interests of all, greater tax justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u115	Mr Minister, on 4 February last the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs (ECON) of the European Parliament adopted, by an overwhelming majority, its draft report on the Commission's proposal for a DAC 7 directive. As a reminder, this proposal is part of the more comprehensive legislative framework of the DAC Directives, which deal with the exchange of tax information between Member States. Although this exchange of information is relatively new, the system deployed by the DAC guidelines has already shown us its effectiveness in combating the erosion of taxable bases. The DAC 7 directive represents, in this case, a new stone to this building which must also show resilience in the face of a digital transformation of our economy, which is becoming increasingly galloping. Mr Minister, have you taken note of the position of the ECON Commission on this proposal for a directive? What welcome do you have for him? Will DAC 7 be on the Ecofin agenda on February 16th? What will be Belgium's position on this directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u116	Mr Bayet, the report for opinion to which you refer concerns the proposal submitted by the Commission to the Council on 15 July, with a view to revising the directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. During the preparatory discussions of the working group set up by the Council, changes were made. At the Ecofin meetings on 1 December, the finance ministers of the Member States confirmed their support for the amended text. It is now up to the Portuguese Presidency of the Council and the Commission to take note of the report adopted by ECON. As regards the more effective and harmonised framework for sanctions, the Commission has already confirmed this in the preparation of DAC 8 – a proposal to be launched in the second half of this year. The proposal for a DAC 7 directive is not on the agenda of the Ecofin meeting on 16 February. Belgium supports this proposal, the twofold objective of which is to extend cooperation between Member States' tax administrations in respect of revenue and income generated by sellers on digital platforms, as well as to strengthen administrative cooperation in clarifying certain existing rules, fully contributes to the Belgian desire for greater cooperation between States and an improvement in the fight against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u117	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to reiterate your interest in effectively combating tax fraud and implementing the new DAC 7 directive. I hope that you will do so with an overwhelming enthusiasm for the relations between us in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u118	Minister, as you know, a survey carried out by Solidaris mutuality has recently looked at the views of Belgians on social security in our country. My speech will focus on some of these aspects, which are of particular interest to our committee. The respondents express their fears about the future of financing our social security. As a socialist, I regard social security as the wealth of all and one of the pillars of Belgian society. What seems striking, while far from surprising, is that 85% of respondents base these concerns on tax evasion by some businesses. They rightly believe that these practices have a negative effect on the financing of collective solidarity. Some 81% of respondents also felt that those with the greatest contributory abilities should contribute more, such as large fortunes and GAFAMs. As you know, for my party, this is a very important subject. Obviously, for many Belgians too. Could you therefore take stock of the progress of the international negotiations on this subject? Has the arrival of the new tenant of the White House ever moved the lines in this regard? At the level of our country, what are we going to do since the government agreement provides for measures if nothing goes ahead? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u119	From October to December 2020, the OECD conducted a public consultation on Pillars 1 and 2. The many comments received in this context were presented and analysed in January. Negotiations will resume at the end of this week. They will continue at a steady pace until the unchanged deadline of mid-2021. At this stage, the outcome of the US presidential elections has not yet moved the lines, but the position of the United States will become clearer as the new interlocutors of the Biden administration become known.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u120	Minister, thank you for these answers and I hope that you will be our lead in this taxation of GAFAM.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u121	Question No 55013843C Vanden Burre is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u122	Mr President, Minister, I come back to you under the pension scheme granted to former military collaborators of the Nazi regime. The answer you gave me at the previous sitting seemed to me to fall short of our commitments and the position taken by the Netherlands. According to my information, in 2020 the Dutch tax authorities sent a request for information to the German tax authorities on the basis of Article 4(1) of the European Union Administrative Assistance Act. The Netherlands has requested to receive the first and last names, address and date of birth as well as the amount of the annual benefits of persons living in the Netherlands who are beneficiaries of benefits under the Federal Pensions Act. On the basis of this request, Germany provided the requested information. Therefore, Minister, if my information is correct, there is no objective reason why Belgium should not make the same request in order to obtain the same information. As a reminder, during the previous legislature, the House adopted a resolution aimed at clarifying and abrogating the system of pensions unduly granted to former Belgian military collaborators of the German national socialist regime during the Second World War. Of course, I exclude all those who have been forcibly recruited into the Wehrmacht. I am thinking in particular of the residents of the German-speaking canton at the time. This Parliament therefore wants to act. Minister, in light of these new elements, are you going to take any further steps using the above-mentioned references in order to obtain the necessary information?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u123	Mr President, Mr Lacroix, first of all, know that I fully associate myself with the resolution on pensions granted to former Belgian military collaborators of the German national-socialist regime during the Second World War, adopted on 14 March 2019 by the House of Representatives. With regard to the benefits paid on the basis of the German Federal Law on the organisation of social assistance for war victims, I think it is useful to recall the statements made on 28 March 2017 before the Committee on External Relations by Mr Rüdiger Lüdeking, then Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany in Belgium. First, pensions awarded under German law are paid only if the beneficiary has suffered an injury to his health as a result of an activity within the Wehrmacht or as a result of an activity comparable to military service within a German organisation. Secondly, the same law provides that persons who have contravened the principle of humanity or the rule of law may not receive such payment. The index of voluntary membership in the SS gives rise to a particularly in-depth examination. In the case of beneficiaries residing in Belgium, after checking the listings of Nazi criminals provided by the Simon Wiesenthal Centre, there is no evidence to justify a refusal. In the light of the Belgian-German Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation concluded on 11 April 1964, the benefits in question are exclusively taxable in Germany and, if they are not taken into account in determining the Belgian tax rate, they must not be declared in Belgium. From a tax point of view, therefore, these pensions are of no interest to Belgium, which is why they are not the subject of an automatic exchange of information between the two countries. According to your sources, however, the Dutch tax authorities have made use of the German law transposing the 2011 European Directive on Administrative Cooperation in the Tax Field to obtain, upon express request to that effect, information on benefits paid annually under the German law to residents of the Netherlands. In accordance with the Directive, the information to be exchanged is those which are likely to be relevant for the administration and enforcement of domestic legislation on income taxes. In the present case, the purpose of submitting the data in question would therefore be to verify that the benefits paid to Belgian residents under German law have been declared or wrongly imposed in Belgium. I would add that the use of data for other purposes requires the agreement of the German Authority. I am not opposed to a request to Germany similar to that made by the Netherlands. However, I think it is appropriate to consult my colleague, the Minister for Foreign and European Affairs, in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u124	Minister, I was well aware of the statements of his excellence, the German ambassador, since I had reviewed all the hearings that took place in 2017, hearings prior to the resolution voted by Parliament. The interest of the transmission of the lists also lies in the fact that Germany may not know that certain persons residing in Belgium have been convicted in Belgium for acts of collaboration, which would make it possible to put an end to the granting of pensions which are completely unjustly paid to these persons. In addition, I am pleased to note that you have started your work here. You say that you do not object to asking for tax information from Germany, on the basis of the European directive I have mentioned to you, through consultation with your colleague in charge of European Affairs. I can imagine it, but I would really like us to come to a truth in this matter, a truth that is fiscal, social and moral. You can contribute to this in a brilliant way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u125	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Verhelst's 55013973C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u126	Mr Minister, since 30 April 2015, Limburg has been recognised as a dislocated zone for a period of six years. Companies that invest may obtain an exemption of 25% from the transfer of withholding tax, for a period of two years, per additional job, subject to certain conditions. It is a success, because a lot of additional jobs were created in Limburg during the period when it was economically difficult. At the moment there are of course effects of the corona crisis, but also of the Brexit. During the topical debate in the Finance Committee on 20 October 2020, you indicated that you intended to examine with the Regions the extent to which it would be appropriate to continue the measure. Hence my question. Can you clarify whether the recognition period for Limburg can be extended beyond April 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u127	Minister, Mr Matheï has already given an introduction. We all know how Limburg was officially recognised as a dislocated zone. I will not repeat the reasoning on this point. As you know, the period at that time will end at the end of April 2021 and, despite the special status and despite all the efforts made under the SALK plans, the economy in Limburg remains particularly cyclically sensitive. It is therefore very important for us that the new government of Limburg should continue to recognise itself as a dislocated zone after that period. You indicated earlier in your reply to my speech that the government is aware of the importance of the scheme for the disrupted zones and that there is an opening up to its possible extension on the basis of the extension until the end of 2023 of the period of application of the European State aid rules. In addition, you have indicated that you will consult in consultation with the Regions in order to examine in depth the possibilities for renewal or adaptation if an extension would not be possible. What is the current state of affairs in the file? Following consultations with your Flemish partners, have you prepared any concrete proposals on this matter? If so, which one? What timeline is currently being set for the implementation of any plans and proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, the measure to which you refer cannot, of course, be seen in isolation from the global debate on the relay. In the context of the discussion on the re-launch measures, my staff have already made a number of proposals, including to adapt this measure to the current economic situation. We have not yet decided on this within the government. As long as the current system applies, the Region has the possibility under the Law of 15 May 2014 implementing the Pact for Competitiveness, Employment and Relance to propose one or more new assisted areas within the chalk lines of this Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u129	Thank you very much for the answer, Minister. I would like to reiterate the importance of this regulation, especially for Limburg. I am told that support measures are also envisaged in the context of the re-launch measures. Let us insist that this can be a part of it. For example, the effects of the post-corona era, combined with the consequences of the Brexit, can be properly absorbed in the Limburg economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u130	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which was very brief. I understand, of course, that this problem is part of the general discussion on re-launch measures. I can understand that. I also hear my CD&V colleague underlining the importance of the measures to be taken to remove the economy in Limburg from the crisis and to secure economic growth. That is why we need to invest permanently in resources and in people. I therefore find it particularly regrettable that the motion I tabled at the time was not supported. In this motion, we asked that, in close consultation with the Flemish Government, the current measures be extended or even new tailor-made support measures to meet the needs of the Limburg economy. In the margins of that dossier, we also asked for a wider disclosure of the current recognition and possible future measures. We are following closely the evolution of this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u131	Minister, on December 2, 2020, following an oral question by my colleague Jef Van den Bergh in the Finance Committee, you stated that you had asked your administration to examine the tax system of the employer's intervention in telework costs. Minister, are you already in possession of this analysis, which would be very useful given the number of people involved? If so, what is the outcome and what are the recommendations? On 12 June 2020, it was decided to promote the use of telework tax by exempting from tax the lump sum payment for telework up to a maximum amount of EUR 1 226.94 per month. Has this decision been properly implemented? Since the health crisis has not ended and telework remains the norm, is this measure still applicable for 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u132	Mrs Reuter, my administration is preparing, in cooperation with ONSS, a circular on this subject. It will be published shortly. The amount of 1,226.94 euros you mentioned is wrong. In the current state of the draft circular, the estimated monthly amount is EUR 129.48.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u133	Minister, is it about amounts per month?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u134	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u135	Minister, you are right to point out the mistake. I had calculated it on an annual basis, not on a monthly basis. This means that a circular should come out soon. Please excuse me, because I was surprised by the brevity of your answer! If I understand correctly, the circular simply follows the recommendation to continue the lump sum payment related to structural telework. I would like to ask you again about the tax system for teleworking in connection with the health crisis, following the agreement reached between the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u136	Mr President, Minister, the reports that you and Parliament receive, but also statements by those involved in a newspaper, show that the take-up of appropriations under the so-called 'bank bazooka' is not what one might expect from it in the context of the ongoing crisis. The amount was already in the media several times. Of the EUR 50 billion earmarked, 2 billion would have been included. This is also reflected in international comparisons with comparable take-up systems. If we look at the total number of loans actually granted under State guarantee as a percentage of GDP, we are at 0.8 %, while in Germany it is 1.6 % and in France it is 5%. That's a striking difference, isn't it? The same media coverage would explain the attitude of banks. That was explained by someone who was called "banker." So the message comes from its own centers. The banks would either reject entrepreneurs who request a credit, or prefer to push them towards products with a higher risk premium and greater freedom of action for the bank, compared to the loans covered by a State guarantee under the banking bazooka. Think, for example, of cash credits. It remains to be seen whether this will benefit the companies that need support to get through this crisis. Once again, the image of a banking sector that seeks the limits of the acceptable in a time of crisis in which we expect them to play their full role as financial intermediaries to support the economy. We discussed this last week and the week before in plenary. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, can you confirm that the potential firepower of the bank bazooka is being exploited under expectations? Secondly, there is a refusal rate of 11 %. What are the reasons for this? Is it just the optional system? Thirdly, voluntary loans up to five years under State guarantee II are hardly used. Is it possible to consider going to a mandatory system to guarantee credit here too? Fourthly, how do you look at the practice in which banks, out of their own interest, try to avoid recourse to the banking bazooka? Does this strike you with the role we expect of them? Fifthly, are you prepared to take an initiative in this respect with a view to making better use of the measures taken under the banking bazooka, as you have done before? Will you take an initiative in this respect with regard to the companies which are now out of business?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u137	Mr President, Minister, you are a quick shifter. This proved to be the case last week when you announced that there was a new agreement with the financial sector to use greater flexibility and transparency in the granting of postponements for entrepreneurial credits. It was also about streamlining, a case-by-case approach and so on. Today we are talking about using the already adapted federal banking plan, modified last summer by the Wilmès Government, to ensure that banks provide credit to companies. As Mr Vandenbroucke says, reports continue to rain in the media. There are reports in Parliaments and the ERMG survey that show a number of things. In addition, there are the figures and tables of Febelfin. They don't always match. Sometimes it is reported by SMEs that banks put forward alternative credit formulas such as cash credits and sometimes demand even more security through mortgages. Febelfin says that the proverbial bazooka should not be used to finance moratoria that end, but that it should be fresh relay money. For this purpose, we are looking at the recovery of economic growth and the financing of stockpiling in such a growth perspective. Minister, how do you respond to the ongoing reports on how the banks deal with the provisions of the banking plan and the guarantee scheme? Will you take initiatives in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u138	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke, Mr Ravyts, the figures requested from the National Bank show that the use of the second state guarantee scheme is indeed still limited today. However, its use is increasing and we expect a further increase in the future. I would like to reiterate that the limited use of the State guarantee scheme in itself is not a negative issue, as long as lending to the companies concerned is maintained. This appears to be the case for the time being. Banks have so far proved willing to grant loans to companies outside the guarantee arrangements. Companies also prefer loans without guarantee to avoid the remuneration linked to the State guarantee. The current limited use can be explained by the support received by the public authorities and the possibility of postponing many payments, such as VAT, social contributions and bank credit repayments. In addition, the second State guarantee scheme applies only to SMEs, while the first guarantee scheme covered loans to all enterprises. Regional guarantees covering a large part of the needs can also be used. Finally, the guarantee relates only to new additional appropriations and not to the renewal or refinancing of credits already outstanding before the crisis. For this, companies can rely on the renewed moratorium. If the aid measures are reduced and firms re-start or re-run their turnover, it is expected that companies will again need new loans that will be guaranteed by this second State guarantee scheme. The rate of refusal for applications for credits under the second State guarantee scheme was 14.3 % between July and November 2020. These figures are relatively stable over time for the time being. The refusal rate in the third quarter of 2020 is slightly higher compared to the refusal rate in the third trimesters of the two previous years, but is still, historically, at a low level. This is the most recent figure. In any case, it is not desirable to require a bank to grant a credit. The mandatory use of the guarantee mechanism for all new and additional loans to companies would also lead to an increase in the financing costs of all companies by paying the compensation for the State guarantee, which is not appropriate. The banks have, objectively speaking, no advantage in avoiding loans with State guarantee II. The low interest rate on new loans to banks amounted to 1.41 % in November. For loans with State guarantee II, banks may charge a maximum interest rate of 2% for maturity up to 3 years, and a maximum interest rate of 2.5 % for maturity over 3 years up to 5 years. The State guarantee scheme has been developed to facilitate lending. For companies which would be more difficult to obtain credit because of the corona crisis, it will be possible to obtain credit through the State guarantee, but the maximum possible use of the State guarantee is of course not an end in itself. The State guarantee implies that the State assumes 80% of the risk of loans with State guarantee II. A careful monitoring of lending to banks and Belgian companies is indeed under consideration. Banks have so far played an important role in supporting the real economy in these particular circumstances and it is essential that they continue to play this role in the near future. In this respect, it is also necessary that we evaluate and adjust the State guarantee for SME loans in good time if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u139	Mr Minister, such an evaluation is, of course, a matter of good governance and it is therefore appropriate to consider whether there is a need to adjust. You set out a number of chalk lines on how far you wish to go in whether or not to force, force or direct banks to make more use of the banking bazooka or other measures. However, I have two small comments to make on your reply. Firstly, credit growth in our economy, which was above the EU average until before the crisis, has fallen below the EU average. That's an indicator, isn't it? Secondly, it is of course not a performance that the interest rate for general operating appropriations is low in times of negative financing costs and absent inflation. You mentioned the average of around 1%, but I suspect that I would like to see some detailed figures on this. This is also a little bit pulled down by very large companies, which receive a much lower rate for their credit lines than the average SME or self-employed. This is being prosecuted in any case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u140	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification, and especially for your nuances, because they are necessary. I certainly didn't put "obligatory use of" in the mouth. It is good that this is properly monitored and corrected where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u141	Mr Minister, my question concerns an important dossier on the tax or parafiscal status of professional athletes. You know that together we agreed to reduce that to fair portions. So I was a little surprised when I saw the coverage of your answer to a question on this matter in the Finance Committee. You confirmed at that time that e-sporters are also covered by the tax status, and in particular that the 80% exemption from the transfer of the corporate tax also applies to e-sporters with an employee contract who are Belgian nationals. That seems to me to be an extended interpretation of the scope as we have known it to date. This seems to be at odds with what we agreed in the coalition agreement, namely that we do not want to expand the system but to make it more equitable, read: limit it. You are aware of the social outrage about this. I come to my questions about that. Firstly, can you indicate exactly what you are basing yourself on to regard e-athletes as falling within the scope of the remuneration scheme? Secondly, as far as the definition is concerned, the question mentioned concerned e-sportsmen who, for example, were employed by an existing football club. Does the scheme apply to e-athletes or a group of e-athletes who have an employment contract as a sportsperson with their own company? Thirdly, what is the estimated budgetary impact of this enlargement? In 2019, tax expenditure for that 80% exemption from athletes exceeded EUR 110 million. Are there any estimates of the budgetary impact of extending the scheme to e-athletes? Has this scheme already been used by e-sporters? Do you have any figures on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u142	It is, of course, about two different issues. First of all, the e-athletes. In fact, the exemption from the transfer of advance payment is applicable to remuneration paid or granted to sportspersons. In order to be regarded as a sportsman, it is not necessary for the recipient of the remuneration to have the status of paid sportsman. The OECD Model Convention provides for a specific provision for income from activities carried out by a sportsperson personally and as such. Such income obtained by an e-athlete falls within the scope of that provision. In the absence of any legal tax provision of the notion of sportsman, the application of the exemption from the transfer of company advance is subject to the Treaty qualification of an e-athlete. The debtors of the company advance charge may apply the exemption from the transfer of company advance charge to remuneration of their Belgian e-sporters, provided, of course, that all legal conditions, such as the spending obligation, are complied with. In doing so, it is necessary that the income paid or allocated to sportsmen and women, i.e. e-sportsmen, be classified as a remuneration of employees and that this remuneration is obtained for the exercise of a sporting activity. The remuneration paid or granted to e-athletes or more general sportsmen employed by a company which they have themselves set up and which could be qualified as remuneration for managers shall not be eligible for the exemption from the transfer of withholding tax. Within the given time, it was not possible to carry out a thorough budgetary analysis. The e-sports event is only beginning to gain importance. There will have to be a permanent follow-up of the extent of this e-sport in the global sporting event. In any case, I will instruct my administration to carry out a budgetary analysis. The results will be communicated to you when the analysis is completed. The above, of course, does not prevent a reform of the exemption from the transfer of the holding tax, as included in the government agreement. There can therefore be no extension of the law to anything already decided in the scope of the law. The reform of the exemption from corporate withholding tax and the parafiscal and tax advantages of professional sportsmen in general was clearly included in my policy paper. I will take the necessary steps this year. In this context, the necessary talks are already underway. You will understand that I cannot yet go into detail about the outlines of this reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u143	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, the first part of which I understand will certainly have to read again, but I take note of it. As far as the second part of your reply is concerned, I am pleased that you confirm that you want to carry out this reform this year. I am pleased that the necessary steps are being taken. My group, and myself in particular, is eager to participate in this in an ambitious way, because that really needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic376x.u144	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mr Loones's 55014009C, but he is not here. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Arens's 55014015C and Mr Cornet's 55014031C were converted into written questions.
