ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u1	Colleagues, I welcome you to the oral question session on health addressed to Minister Vandenbroucke. As a result of a catch-up operation, 127 items are on the agenda. Let me remind you that we have a second appointment Friday at 2:00 p.m. I propose that you start directly the current debate on the mental health of young people, which includes six questions. I note the absence of Mrs Jadin and I also apologise to Mrs Merckx who indicated that she would be late and would not ask her question in this topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u2	Mr. Chair, Minister, the latest Sciensano report has highlighted a terribly alarming situation in the mental health of young people between the ages of 18 and 29, who are particularly affected by depression, anxiety, eating disorders and sleep disorders. We know your commitment to working to support front-line psychological care in Belgium. You have already made major progress for all citizens, particularly with the convention put in place to facilitate access to mental health care. Minister, what is your assessment of Sciensano's investigation? Do you think that the measures you have already taken in this context are sufficient or do you think that there are alternative measures to be put in place? How can we support this specific target audience between the ages of 18 and 29? How will you continue the effort and pay attention to these patients suffering from moderate or even heavier psychological problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u3	Mr Minister, first of all, it was stated in a communication that additional resources were required for the therapeutic implementation of the mental health care of young people. What kind of therapeutic interpretation is that? Will you also use the 200 million for mental health to implement an action plan specifically for young people? Is this action plan broader than just mental health care? Youth is a state power. In the light of a full approach to the problem of mental health care in young people, have you had any discussions with your Flemish colleague? In West Flanders, an 18-year-old youngster with a well-known mental problem was seen armed. His family had pulled the alarm and asked for a forced recording. That did not happen for the reasons explained. As a lucky man, no casualties. The situation of mature adolescents with mental problems and often addiction problems is difficult. The family is of course very concerned, but can hardly intervene. In the specific case of the youngster in West Flanders there was no possibility of intending him, collating him, sending him to a form of forced therapy or admission. There was even a question of providing residential therapy in a closed institution for addiction. How can you anticipate that? What are your plans with that? At present there are many more problems with soft drugs in the drug aid centres. Young people use cannabis, but the concentration of tetrahydrocannabinol is so high that it also very often leads to really addictive problems, with psychological and psychiatric consequences. How can we deal with that? What's your plan? Secondly, a lot of mental health care resources are spent on residential care. T-beds take the psychiatric or addicted patient out of society for a long time. In this way, however, all the possibilities for integration and the possibilities for working will be broken down. Very often these patients are also removed from the home situation. How can we achieve a conversion from residential to outpatient care, with a crisis care system that can run through the emergency, so that psychiatric hospitals can accommodate young people with mental problems or drug problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u4	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u5	Mr President, I will answer the questions in an integrated manner. Like you, we are challenged by the figures expressing the feeling of ill-being of our young fellow citizens. Of course, the latter is one of the consequences of the health crisis, and in particular the containment measures we have had to take to manage the pandemic. A person's good mental health, regardless of age, as well as a sense of well-being, is a set of contextual conditions that contribute to his or her balance. Isolation, lack of social ties and integrative activities are elements that may alter an individual's harmonious development until they affect the balance of mental health. We have figures on this. The seventh COOVID-19 health survey of Sciensano took place between 10 and 20 June. Almost 18,000 people aged 18 and over participated. There were also many people who had already completed one or more COVID-19 health surveys. The research focused in particular on mental health during the third wave. This showed that the feelings of fear are decreasing and are back at the level of the end of summer 2020. The depressive symptoms follow the same trend. As regards suicide, the figures provided by the Public Prosecutor currently show no significant difference between the years 2019, 2020 and the figures available for 2021. I am talking about this with some pudeur because statistics on suicide may make us forget that every individual suicide is a terrible tragedy and that in any case we have many suicides in our country, including among young people. You can find more information about this in the mental health scoreboard on the website of Sciensano. That information has been online since May 2021. The latest COVID-19 health survey is also available on the website of Sciensano. The speakers have already said that mental health must now be a very important pillar of our policy. One of the lessons that we must learn from the past and certainly from the covid crisis is that we must really aim for cooperation at all levels. We can organise this cooperation thanks to a reform launched in 2010 by predecessors of mine, Mrs Onkelinx, and Mrs De Block, among others. This reform consisted in the creation of Networks of Mental Health Care, first for adults and the elderly and from 2015 for children and young people. Network coordinators shall facilitate cooperation in those networks. They're controlled by my administration. In addition, two important consultation forums have been set up within the IMC, in particular the consultation body 107.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The policy cells and administrations of the Länder are represented. A fixed rhythm of meetings has been established every 14 days with the Länder through the Interkabinets Working Group on Mental Health and bilateral meetings with the Länder are also planned as part of the further implementation of the new RIZIV Convention. Mrs Depoorter, these discussions with the Länder are really important in order to achieve a coherent policy where the initiatives I take from the federal level must be complementary to those of the Länder. We have also properly laid down this in a Protocol of 2 December 2020. Policy must be based on the needs of the population, based on questions of care that differ in content and intensity. Mental health care must be organised from a staged model. We are, of course, thinking of the World Health Organization's pyramid, where the majority of the population, one in three or even more in the surveys we have, has complaints which are mainly reflected in the data from the Sciensano survey. That is a fairly high percentage, but we see that these complaints can be supported or answered in most of the population by working on the resilience of the people and by helping people reduce the pressure and stress they experience. These are complaints that usually go away when the pressure decreases. I am thinking, for example, of measures such as quarantine and so on. Of course, for a number of people who are more vulnerable and who, on their own, do not have sufficient resilience at some point, this is insufficient and needs more specialised care. We make this distinction in the new approach to mental health, which is actually trying to respond to what we are missing, which is an offer for the people in the lower part of that pyramid of the World Health Organisation. These are people with mild, mild to moderate symptoms and disorders. As you know, Mrs De Block has given an impetus to this. We have picked up this impetus, with a budget that is much larger. The budget has quadrupled to 152 million. We translated this into a new RIZIV convention which was adopted on 26 July. It is a very big difference from the approach so far. Not only do we demand no further referral from a doctor for the very first contact with a psychologist, but we have also improved the reimbursement for clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics. Because we ask for a lot of cooperation and therefore exchange of information, we are also trying to ensure that clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics can deal with the high administrative burden that arises in this practice. The care provided by the conventioned clinical psychologists and orthopedagogic doctors conveniently means that they have an agreement with the Network of Mental Health Care.............................................................................................................. Also important, and for many psychologists and orthopedagogics a change in culture, is our range of types of intervention: face to face, individually and also by video, in groups, outreach, in the office of people, for groups that work, or in a neighborhood, in the direct living environment of the user. The real revolution that is needed is an approach to the population rather than a vision that departs from one-on-one relationships between an individual patient and an individual healthcare provider. We need to help in a variety of ways and look for ways that are more efficient than just one-on-one contacts, such as addressing resilience issues in a group of people. Yesterday I was a guest in Namur at the Kirikou children and youth network, which was extremely interesting. It was a closed meeting. She was very interesting. I was positively surprised to hear that this paradigm shift had already been applied by clinician psychologists. I received some encouraging testimony about this yesterday in Namur. I have also seen the willingness to develop this policy notwithstanding a whole series of practical and procedural obstacles to be overcome. Namur was one of the first networks to sign in August for young people and children. At the moment, 28 Networks Spiritual Health Care have signed the RIZIV Convention. These are 18 networks for adults and 10 networks for children and young adults. They can recruit a specific local coordinator and further roll out the convention at local level. In the meantime, the actors in the field who are members of the Transversal Agreement Committee of the RIZIV have continued to work on a model of individual convention between the Networks and Mental Health Care on the one hand and the individual clinical psychologists and orthopedagogues on the other. I regret that there has been some delay. I had hoped that the convention would be approved by mid-September. However, it was only approved by the Insurance Committee yesterday. Despite the month of delay, the networks can now tell which clinical psychologists and orthopedagogues they want to work with and offer them a model of individual convention and get started. For the sake of clarity, and in order to ensure continuity, the networks can now cooperate with psychologists and orthopedagogues who have signed the previous convention of former Minister of Health De Block. There is all kinds of information available to the actors in the first line and to the people in the Networks and Mental Health Care. For example, there are FAQs on the websites of the Riziv and the FPS Public Health. I think that cooperation is also useful for the care providers themselves. Yesterday I received the testimony of a general practitioner active in the Namibian network clearly saying that he was delighted with the cooperation between general practitioners and psychologists both for the support of general practitioners and psychologists. This is an important element in understanding what we are doing. This is also a question of joint intervision and training. To the demand for a specific offer for independent psychologists I can answer that they can also use it. Until the end of February 2022, they can also use a specific assistance offer for self-employed workers that we have installed together with Mr Clarinval. This even means that a self-employed person can receive up to eight free sessions if he or she is in difficulty. We have taken this decision specifically in the light of the covid measures. That's an offer that doesn't distinguish between self-employed people. It is also available for independent clinical psychologists and orthopedagogues. In other words, we are also thinking of the stress and pressure that weighs on the care providers themselves and therefore also on the psychologists and orthopedagogics. Several contact points have already been organised at regional level. These are telephone helplines and/or websites to respond to questions related to psychosocial problems, for example social and psychological assistance, such as Ne masquons pas émotions of the AVIQ or the Green Social Assistance Number of the Centre for Poverty Reduction in the Walloon Region or Tele-Onthal in Flanders. The task within the Networks of Mental Health is to build bridges together with the efforts of my colleagues in the Länder, so that the existing healthcare supply can be connected at all levels and thus also a further fragmentation of supply can be avoided. This means that we really want to take into account local realities and local partners who have already taken initiatives in the field of well-being and care. We also know that the supply and need in cities, on the one hand, and in rural areas, on the other hand, are often not comparable. For example, we note that more and more local or non-physical contact points are being organised within the Networks of Mental Health. Good local practices are known, which can serve as a model for implementation in other networks. There are also concrete initiatives, such as Crisis-BXL for the Brussels ggz network for children and young people or the project Crossroads in the Antwerp SaRa network. The question has also been asked by Mrs Depoorter about the emphasis we place on young people and children. More than one third of the budget of 152 million euros is earmarked for the first-line psychological function and is reserved for the target group of children, young people and young adults. This is proportional to their share of the population. We also want to take into account the fact that the starting age of psychological problems in the age group from 0 to 23 years is much higher than in the age group from 23 years and older. The EUR 152 million for first-line psychological care is not about children and young people with severe crises or very complex situations. It's a wide first-line offer. The new convention therefore does not cover all the concerns, certainly not the small 5% to 7% very serious disorders that are at the top of the World Health Organisation pyramid. However, we have recently taken measures to deal with these more serious problems. Children's mental health networks have developed an offer of mobile interventions, in collaboration with all other mental health and non-mental health services. I therefore invested €4.7 million in the spring to increase the leadership of mobile crisis teams in mental health networks for children and adolescents by 50%. To work more in prevention, I have put in place, in collaboration with universities and colleges, group interventions for students who are likely to develop psychological problems. This budget of EUR 1.5 million is foreseen until the end of this year. In addition, for children and adolescents whose health has deteriorated significantly, we currently have 711 approved beds in hospitals in Belgium. We also have 520 day beds and 79 night beds. Finally, we have 156 "Forensische K" (For-K) places funded under a so-called B4 convention for a medical-legal target group. To meet the pressure of applications for admission, an investment of EUR 20 million has been planned to increase the staff of hospital beds for children and adolescents. Mrs Depoorter, you are right, we must avoid hospitalocentrism in this matter. However, there were real capacity problems in the relevant hospital services. I have therefore taken some ad hoc measures to remedy this. The main objective of this measure was to support the child in his/her environment after hospitalization and to accelerate the flow of hospital services. So I wanted to increase somewhat the "turnover" – I don't like this word – in order to better use the hospital capacity and accommodate more children and adolescents. Better management of the entry and exit of these existing services helps a greater number of children. By province, I have also provided approximately €490,000, for which two liaison teams of 2.7 full-time equivalents each can be created for 1,000 beds or places. These liaison teams will use their expertise in child psychiatry in other non-psychiatric hospital services, such as emergency and paediatric services, as well as in services for young adults, with the aim of creating spaces to reduce pressure in child psychiatric services. The aim of the deployment of these liaison teams is to prevent or shorten admissions or readmissions to K services. In addition, a greater capacity for admission for children and adolescents in situations of mental vulnerability is being created, but temporarily so far. These measures have been fully deployed and have taken their cruise speed. They are regularly evaluated jointly with the sector to determine if further action is required. Let me get this straight. I do not want to be euphoric about this, because I think that there is a high level of need and that there is still a lot of work to be done, but those measures have been completed. We are investing EUR 80 million, specifically aimed at children and young people, in order to detect and treat more quickly and to be able to act better and more efficiently in case of crisis situations or when really intensive care is needed. Then there is the specific question concerning the sad incident in Kortrijk, to which Mrs Depoorter referred. We will not talk about an individual dossier, but that is indeed a hinge age at which many things go wrong. This applies to mental health care, but also to other forms of assistance. I have therefore asked the Federal Hospital Services Board for an opinion on the programming of the offer for the specific target group of 18 to 23 year olds. This target group has already been specifically included in the RIZIV Convention on Interim Care, which I have already mentioned, but there is also a need for more intensive forms of care, where I believe additional initiatives are needed. On my question, a working group on transition age has also been set up within the Committee on the new mental health policy for children and young people. By the end of this year, I expect an initial advice on the care pathway, both in-patient and residential, for this target group. There is a transition problem from young to young adults that we need to tackle. In the budget of the RIZIV, which was approved yesterday at the General Council, there is a little room to do some extras in the sphere of psychiatry. Perhaps that will give us some opportunity to deal with this problem a little more.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u6	Minister, you have provided, as usual, a very detailed response that demonstrates awareness, and a willingness to invest 80 million euros. These are essential steps. Your policy is in line with what I believe: to prevent as much as possible from having to intervene. When intervention is required, it must be done on the front line as soon as possible. Mobile units, front-line doctors, front-line psychologists are assets that need to be developed. In any case, hospitalizations which are unfortunately necessary in some cases, but which are terribly traumatic for families and those in care, should be kept to a minimum. Hospitalisation should be avoided, but the length of stay should also be kept to a minimum. I think that you have taken full measure of the action to be taken, and that you are taking it now. I will take care to review your response as a whole to come back to you later and follow the action you are taking with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u7	Minister, you are certainly working on it, and that is already a very good point. With regard to the RIZIV Convention, I am a little concerned about the professional associations that went to the Council of State. Can that mean a delay in the overall roll-out of the concept? Well, that's a concern, isn't it? You talked about the mobile teams, which do indeed function well, which work at a low threshold, which sometimes also take the family with them. I didn't hear you mention that, but it's also very important to coach those people along with the first line. I would like to raise the issue of young adults with psychiatric problems that are homeless. Turns out it's a group of patients who stays under the radar. After all, they can very easily hop from one friend to another friend and are therefore not registered as real problems. We must take this group into account in terms of guidance. Like you, I believe in an open psychiatric environment, where we really work very close to the patient, regardless of whether it's in town or in the countryside. You talked about the hinge age, which is very difficult. We need to keep an eye on that pre- and post-care. There too, I would like to raise a problem, namely the psychiatric patients with disabilities, a mild mental handicap. They also stay under that radar very often. When they come from the hospital after hospitalization, they no longer have aftercare as needed. In connection with the budget, one third more focusing on the youth is absolutely a good thing. I didn't hear you talk about the T-beds. There's a suggestion I'd like to make. In the Netherlands there is a Bed Op Recipe (BOR), where T-beds are transformed into beds where the psychiatric patient can relax on prescription when he really needs it. That could be an answer. You talked about the extra beds for the pediatrician. We do need medium-care beds for anorexia patients. As far as the liaison psychiatrists in the ordinary departments are concerned, I'd be careful. They are very vulnerable young people and they need to be followed very closely. Both the precaution, the care at the moment and the aftercare must be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u8	Minister, I am a little concerned about the figures on anxiety and depressive disorders that are rising again. This is not mentioned by the independent psychologists. Waiting lists may have been reduced, but the reason for this is that mental health care has started with a first intake call. So that gives a bit of a distorted image. In the meantime, no treatment has been started for those other people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u9	Minister, we can see that the number of asthma patients has been increasing slowly since 2008. In 2008, according to the Sciensano Health Survey, the figure was 3.4 % of men and 5 % in 2018. For women, it evolved from 4.9 to 6.5 % in 2018. The good news is that many asthma patients, subject to good therapy, often suffer little from the condition and do not have an increased risk of covid. The latter is not insignificant in these times. Medication and its proper use therefore play a crucial role. That is why the diagnosis is particularly important. Now a number of sources indicate that, on the one hand, we have many cases of overdiagnosis, especially in children, because there is no spirometry and therefore a suspicion of asthma must be assumed, while on the other hand there is also underdiagnosis because people often do not realize that asthma could be the cause of their complaints. Mr President, do you have a view on the further evolution of the figures? The latest figures from Sciensano refer to 2018. Do you think it is possible to take preventive measures at federal level to control the number of asthma patients, but above all to keep people faithful to their medications? Are measures possible to improve diagnostics and reduce both over- and under-diagnosis? As far as therapy is concerned, do you receive any signs of evolution? After all, this theme is regularly brought back into the spotlight, so that we can expect more people to understand the importance of this therapy. Thank you in advance for your reflections.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u10	Mrs Jiroflée, you are right that asthma remains an important problem, but there may also be some points of light. The latest study by Sciensano, which dates from spring 2021, shows, on the basis of a rather small sample, that the percentage of persons in the general population aged 18 years and over who indicate that they have asthma is 4.9 %. For comparison, in the 2018 Health Survey, that was 5.7 %. Of course we have to be a little careful with these figures, but I thought that was rather positive, in the sense that we do not have any indications that the number of asthma patients is currently increasing. In 2023 there will be a new Health Survey and we will be able to better assess it. In children asthma is indeed the most common chronic disease, but because the diagnosis of asthma is not easy, also epidemiological monitoring is not easy. Therefore, very precise figures on the prevalence of asthma in children are not available, but it is estimated that between 7.5% and 10% of Belgian children are affected. In addition to hereditary predisposition, the risk factors are overweight, exposure to specific allergenic stimuli, such as allergens of the household dust mite, cats, dogs or pollen, exposure to tobacco smoke and air pollution. Preventive measures to reduce the number of asthma patients will therefore have to be in place in the area of a healthy lifestyle, i.e. non-smoking, healthy weight, healthy diet, sufficient exercise and reducing air pollution, fine dust and nitrogen dioxide in the air. These are largely the powers of the Länder, which does not mean that we should do nothing. As regards overdiagnosis and underdiagnosis, it should be stressed that the existing guidelines must be followed for both diagnosis and treatment. Domus Medica issued a revised directive on adult asthma in May 2020. You have rightly pointed out that adherence to therapy is important in asthma patients for the control of the disease. There too, good education and clear instructions for the use of the medication are important. The general practitioner and other primary care providers can play an important role in this. I refer, for example, to the counselling interviews for asthma patients in the pharmacy, which have been reimbursed by the RIZIV since 2013. So there are a lot of levers. I do not have a direct answer to your questions about statistical data. Whether therapy is increasing or decreasing, I'm afraid to say so here. We just need to make sure that we keep our finger on the wrist. We ensure that the existing instruments are used as well as possible, in addition to a very general policy on air quality, health through movement and healthy nutrition. Those are elements that will come back later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As far as a healthy lifestyle is concerned, a large number of measures are at the level of the Länder, but some measures still fall under federal competence. We are counting on you to discuss this with your federal colleagues, as it is a big problem. From my contacts with people with asthmatic children, I have the impression that it is often necessary to repeat that the pharmacy can also play a role. This was a matter of concern to me. In my opinion, people often do not know that the pharmacy also plays a first-line role. In this sense, incentives may be introduced. I welcome the sensitivity you have shown on this subject, as many children suffer from asthma. It is also not easy for parents to deal with this if the right measures are not taken or if the right advice is not given.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u12	Minister, it is my responsibility that Sciensano, in an investigation in which he analysed the content of as many as 15,000 promotional brochures from different supermarkets in our country, pointed out that ultra-processed foods containing a lot of sugar or salt have a better representation (42-63%) than healthier foods such as fresh fruits and vegetables (their representation is in the range of 4 to 18%), without prejudice to the fact that healthy products on promotion are nevertheless regularly presented on the front page of these brochures. This is particularly worrying when it is known that harmful diets in Belgium are the third leading cause of morbidity after smoking and high blood pressure. Therefore, promoting ultra-processed foods is likely to encourage citizens to consume more of them. The survey reveals that our citizens consume about a third of their daily energy in the form of ultra-processed products. Sciensano finally indicates, as part of this study, that some supermarkets carry out product promotion campaigns with good Nutri-Scores, which is likely to have a positive impact on the health of the population. If, since the last reform of the state, the National Nutrition and Health Plan (PNSS) is, in principle, based on the powers of the federated entities, I still believe that the results of this survey should encourage better coordination between the federal state and the federated entities in terms of prevention. Minister, can you let me know if, on the basis of this investigation, you intend to activate the Memorandum of Understanding of 21 March 2016 between the federal authority and the authorities referred to in Articles 128, 130 and 135 of the Constitution on prevention, in order to harmonize common measures within this specific framework of promoting healthy eating habits for adults? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u13	Minister, the Federal Food and Health Plan aims to harmonise and ensure coherence between the messages distributed both by the public authorities concerned and by the private sector stakeholders. That multidisciplinary instrument aims to reduce the incidence of overweight and obesity in Belgium. Minister, how do you see it in the framework of the Federal Food and Health Plan? Poor dietary habits, overweight and obesity are risk factors for the development of cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and many cancers. Will you encourage companies to reduce the promotion of non-healthy foods in order to have a positive impact on the health of the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u14	I believe that reference has been made to the Memorandum of Understanding between the federal authority and the authorities responsible for prevention. Chapter 2 of this Memorandum of Understanding outlines a joint action plan between the federal and federated entities. We find ways of working together to move towards an ambitious nutrition policy for our people. Over the last five years, exchanges have taken place between different levels of power on various topics such as the establishment of food recommendations for Belgium by the Higher Council for Health, the adoption of a nutrition logo on food products, the question of sustainable production systems and, in collaboration with the authorities responsible for the environment, the question of undernutrition (in hospitals, nursing homes, home care), breastfeeding policy, etc. Other aspects listed in the Memorandum of Understanding could not be developed between entities due to lack of time or opportunity. With regard to the federal government's commitment, let us remember that promoting healthy eating and primary disease prevention are the responsibilities of the federated entities! The Federal Nutrition Health Plan launched in 2006 (FNIH) is structured around five strategic areas within which the federal government is taking various actions to contribute positively to the adoption of healthy eating behaviours and physical activity levels. As part of the first priority "Private sector commitments", we have implemented a balanced diet convention since 2016 to reduce the fat, sugar, salt and calories content of foods manufactured in Belgium in collaboration with FEVIA and COMEOS. To further encourage food reformulation and for greater product transparency, in April 2019 we joined the Nutri-Score nutritional logo. This logo makes it possible to make healthier choices and compare products among themselves within the same category of products. Belgian distributors have largely adhered to this logo by implementing it for their own branded products but also for branded products on their sales sites and/or price labels. It is a powerful tool for nudging in the field of health and we call for widespread and compulsory adoption at European level. Many other actions are currently under way within the four other strategic axes of the Memorandum of Understanding, such as: the preparation of the new food survey, scheduled for 2022, in collaboration with Sciensano and the federated entities. The latest survey dates back to 2014 and dates back to seven years; actions related to undernutrition of older people to improve screening and care in hospitals, nursing homes and at home; actions related to the promotion, protection and support of breastfeeding; actions in collaboration with the SPP Social integration to improve the content of food packages under the FEAD (European Fund) programme; actions aimed at valuing food recommendations promoting a plant-rich diet. (Cf. the new Food Based Dietary Guidelines (FBDG) of the Higher Council for Health and Food Epi). These are actions currently under way within the strategic axes of the Memorandum of Understanding. My administration is working on the development of new actions in the Federal Nutrition Health Plan for the period 2021-2030, in a difficult health context that has demonstrated, if yet to be proven, that healthy and balanced eating and the practice of adequate physical activity are at the heart of health. Under Axis 1 – private sector engagement – we are involved in coordination with federated entities for the implementation of voluntary codes of conduct by regulators, radios and TVs to limit commercial communications for foods rich in fats, salts and sugars as part of the transmission of the AVDSM Directive. This Directive encourages Member States to use co-regulation and the promotion of self-regulation through codes of conduct. This measure should contribute positively to the improvement of the food marketing situation. The mass distribution sector needs to be made aware of the promotion of healthy foods rather than foods rich in fats, sugars and salts in their advertising brochures in order to encourage balanced eating behaviour. A dialogue with COMEOS and FEVIA on this important topic will begin shortly. Specific consultations with the different sectors are also planned on the continuation of the reformulation efforts and the development of new initiatives related to new nutrition recommendations. Examples include the increase in whole cereal content in food products or the improvement of the food environment in shops thanks to nudging. Consultations on the plan are also planned with the relevant departments of the Länder. It is difficult to estimate the impact of the food plan on health budgets. In any case, long-term consideration should be given to the fight against bad eating habits and a sedentary lifestyle. At the moment, it is too much to see the positive effects on the health budget and health insurance in connection with the federal plan, but of course we do see the correlations between obesity and other diseases. There are different coordination exercises in the field of coordination at the European level. This is done in the context of joint actions such as Reformulation Marketing to Children on Food Procurement (Best-ReMaP), within the framework of the Steering Group on Prevention and Promotion and the European Farm to Fork Strategy. Incentives for healthy food or tax measures on certain types of food will be considered as a possible part of the ongoing federal plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u15	Minister, thank you for your well-substantiated answer. It demonstrates a genuine willingness on the part of the federal government and federal entities to work in concert with each other on what is a real public health issue. However, I do not see very clearly the timing of all the measures you have announced. You are talking about a whole series of coordinations that exist today, but with what timetable? With what objectives? This is still unclear. I hear a will from you. This is fundamental, especially when we know that one in twelve people in Belgium today has diabetes. More generally, we know that our pace of life is changing, that everything has to go extremely quickly, and that, therefore, this way of life makes us increasingly moving towards ultra-transformed products. I hear your willingness to update the 2006 federal plan to have a plan for 2021-2030. This will allow us to integrate precisely what did not exist in 2006. I am thinking in particular of the Nutri-Score that you have addressed or the possibility of having promotions that encourage the consumption of healthy products. I will conclude with the need to increase the budgetary share now allocated, in a more general way, to prevention, therefore to federated entities. Indeed, if we do the exercise of comparing ourselves with other European countries, we observe that this share of the budget is much less at home. I think that if we want to have a real public health policy on prevention, we must be able to be ambitious in terms of budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Poor dietary habits are the third largest cause of disease load, after tobacco and increased blood pressure. The promotion of ultra-processed foods encourages citizens to eat even more of it. Belgians absorb about one third of their daily energy in the form of ultra-processed foods. Some supermarkets in Belgium have recently committed themselves to the diet of the population, such as the mention of the Nutri-Score or the promotion of certain foods with Nutri-Score A and B. That is good, because it is precisely there that people should be encouraged to eat healthier. Sciensano has analysed the contents of about 15,000 advertising leaflets from various supermarket chains in Belgium for a year. The results show that ultra-processed foods that are less healthy receive the most attention. More than half of the advertisements concerned such means. It is therefore important that you continue to stress the importance of promoting healthy food in the sectors so that they continue to pay attention to this, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u17	Mr President, Minister, in 2016 a resolution was adopted in Parliament asking the government, in consultation with all the parties concerned, to find a regulatory solution for the provision and transport of medicines in an emergency or sedation kit for nurses of the multidisciplinary guidance quipes under the supervision of a pharmacist. For this purpose the contents of this kit had to be determined and a safety system was developed in which surpluses of these medicines were returned to the pharmacist in order to prevent abuse of medicinal products for palliative use. Today, nurses are driving these drugs illegally. They often use residues of these medicines in patients when the medicine is not immediately available in the pharmacist. The safety system is considered necessary to prevent accidents. The nature of these medicines can lead to a fatal outcome in the event of abuse. A pilot project was launched in the Westhoek and the method used in the resolution was supported by the Federation of Palliative Care and the Flemish Pharmacists Network. Are you prepared to take further action on this resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u18	Mr President, the government that was in office in 2016 was indeed called upon by a resolution to provide a regulatory framework for the transport of medicines in an emergency or sedation kit for palliative patients. Among other things, the content, safety and control by a pharmacist should be regulated according to the resolution. In the context of the socialization of care, the outpatient palliative care is indeed very important. This presupposes that the delivery and transport of medicines take place under safe conditions, both for the patient and for the health of the other people involved. The nurse must also be able to administer the care effectively with the necessary legal certainty. I have therefore asked the competent administrations, namely the FAGG and the Public Health Office, to examine all aspects of this problem and to make a concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I cannot really add much to that, at least thanks for the clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u20	That is indeed a brief answer. It is very good that you attach importance to meeting expectations for a legal and secure framework for everyone. How soon can you expect to land on this issue? This is an important expectation from the field, as well as from palliative care people, and families.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u21	Actually, I don't dare say anything. I asked the administration to work on this. I think it's important, as indicated, for everyone. But I don't dare say when exactly I'm offered an approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u22	Mr Minister, since this is a rather technical introduction, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u23	3. The conclusion of a Belgian study on vitamin D and covid was:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Vitamin D 70 supplementation might be an inexpensive and safe mitigation for the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic (De Smet et al.)" Do you intend to make people aware of the importance of vitamin D?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u24	I am first of all aware of the discussion on the role of vitamin D in protecting against respiratory infections. Then there is the question of whether I have a view of vitamin D shortages in the population. According to the opinion issued by the High Health Council in January this year 9620 on vitamins D and COVID-19, up to 80% of the population in Belgium have a moderate to pronounced vitamin D deficiency, as is the case in other European countries. However, the High Health Council concluded that a deficiency of vitamin D has not been shown to increase the risk of COVID-19. Of course, it is recommended for people at risk of vitamin D deficiency, such as elderly people in retirement homes and pregnant women, to take vitamin D supplements. The High Health Council has also reiterated in its recommendations of January 2021, which are available to the public, that it is recommended for everyone to eat sufficient vitamin D-rich foods and spend sufficient time in the sun. One does not need to spend long outdoors to develop vitamin D, but still enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u25	Mr Minister, the question concerning vitamin D has been on my mind throughout the COOVID-19 crisis; I have also asked your predecessor. It is becoming increasingly clear that vitamin D is an important factor in strengthening the immune system. Recently research carried out by Ghent hospitals UZ Gent and AZ Jan Palfin showed that selenium and zinc play an important role. You can easily get rid of it by referring to the opinion of the High Health Council of January. I hope that this advice will be regularly reviewed and that recent studies, such as the Ghent study, will also be taken into account, although a small number of patients have been examined. It is necessary to assess the importance of such nutrients. Since prevention is a matter for the Länder, perhaps you can emphasise a little more in your consultations with the Communities that it is important to take preventive action. I also read in the government statement that you want to emphasise this. I hope that you will address the issue in your talks with the Länder and that more attention will be paid to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u26	Minister, the resignation of Sam Brokken from the end of March or early April 2021, reportedly following the debate with Sam Brokken and vaccineist Pierre Van Damme in The Seventh Day, has already stirred up a lot of dust. Mr Brokken doubted that, firstly, young people had to be vaccinated, contrary to what Professor Van Damme wanted and to what we see happening in the meantime. Secondly, he also questioned that vaccinees could also be contagious. Turns out he'd be right. In my journal 't Pallieterke I read that according to former journalist Alain Grootaers the resignation came after political interference from you, albeit through your party colleague Willy Claes, because he would still have some problems in the colleges and universities. What is your view on the often renowned and necessary academic freedom of lecturers and professors? Do you think that Mr Brokken could have made the statements he made in the debate during the Seventh Day in the context of his academic freedom? Do you recognize that the debate, to the extent that we can still speak of a debate today, is rather one-sided? Is it true what Alain Grootaers and the Pallieterke report, namely that the resignation came from you or from Willy Claes? If not, what do you think is the reason for Mr Brok's resignation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u27	Mrs. Sneppe, that's bullshit. I have never dealt with Mr Broken. I never spoke to Willy Claes about it either. It is therefore not worth answering the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u28	Minister, it was to be expected that you would reply in this way. It's hard to prove. What struck me was that the college itself left it in the dark whether Mr Brok's statements in the Seventh Day led to his resignation. So if I may read it in this way, it might well have led to Mr Brok's resignation. It is very sad that academics like Mr Broken are being taken into account for what they say. It is an enrichment for the knowledge that scientists go into debate with each other or even the clinch. Apparently, a debate throughout the corona crisis has been a difficult one, which I have repeatedly accused here, and people like to listen to only one clock instead of several bells. I deeply regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u29	Mr President, Minister, on 1 September last, the lower-risk drug room in Liège had to close due to the lack of renewal of the convention linking it to the city of Liège. In the meantime, the situation has changed, as the convention has been renewed. This type of initiative is only possible through political, medical and judicial consensus at the local level. In fact, the current federal framework places consumer rooms at lower risk in legal precariousness. According to the 1921 Act, it is prohibited to make premises available to associations for such projects. This legal framework had been questioned by the authors of the Belgian initiative, and was the subject of several initiatives by the regional public authorities: the Walloon Region, by a decree of 23 May 2018, but also the Brussels Region, which has just adopted an order on the subject. The subject is not new. It was debated under the previous legislature. But in view of this situation in Liège, and of the projects that exist today in Brussels and in other cities, particularly in Namur, my questions are relevant. Minister, I would like to ask you about your vision, but also about the prospects for the legal framework. You have received the details of the questions in the written version.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u30	Mr President, Minister, speaking of Flemish efficiency, the injection chamber is a shorter word. However, the subject is certainly not frivolous. In Liège, that space has been closed, while in Brussels we are thinking about setting up such a space. It seems that the legislation in Brussels and Wallonia is different from what was voted on at federal level. The facilitation of drug use is still prohibited in our country at the moment. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to know your opinion on spray rooms. Do you find such spaces valuable? Are you considering its approval? Have you had contact with the Brussels and Walloon competent ministers on this matter? What conclusions do you draw from that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u31	Mr President, my services have taken note of the closure of the lower-risk consumer room in Liège, but I have not been informed beforehand of the situation. The thematic meeting on drugs of the Interministerial Conference on Public Health approved, inter alia, the priorities for the work of the General Drug Policy Unit on 15 July 2021. This unit brings together all the representatives of the ministers responsible for drug policy, both at the federal level and at the level of the federated entities. It aims at a comprehensive and integrated approach to the problem of drug use. Among the priorities for work is the preparation of the political discussion for a possible structural anchoring of the consumer rooms. This discussion will be based on the scientific and legal analyses available concerning the structural, conceptual, organisational and legislative anchoring of consumer rooms in Belgium and on the results of the evaluation of experiments in this field carried out by the city of Liège. The proposal for a decision will be submitted to the Drug Thematic Meeting in January 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers. I welcome the fact that there is a dialogue on the subject. The aim of this initiative is to support people who are in a situation of dependence and not to encourage consumption. It wants to provide a framework for health, social and anti-smuggling, isolation and addiction issues. This project has been carried out in Liège for three years and has proved its worth. It will be subject to an ongoing medical assessment. I hope that the renewal of the convention in Liège will feed into the reflections and debates that you will have with your colleagues. This is a matter to follow and I am pleased that the dialogue is under way on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, but it was not really an answer. You have not given any insight into the Vivaldi government's vision of spray spaces and facilitating illicit drugs. To what extent will your government impose this red-green agenda? To what extent will you import this very serious problem into the IMC? After all, we are talking about heroin here. I have here the annual report of vzw Compass. In the number of treatments started, 94.74 % is devoted to heroin use. This is not just about facilitating or framing, as the colleague says. This is about people who aren't being escorted. That didn't happen in Liège either. There was a clear nuisance in the region. The people in Liège have given very clear signals to the mayor about the spray rooms. Was there also an intake interview where a rehab centre or therapy was recommended? I don't think so, according to the numbers I've consulted. Minister, I would very much have liked an answer from you. To what extent are you as Minister of Health for the spray rooms?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u34	Minister, the pilot project to better integrate dental hygienists into dental practice has been under way for some time, but has been postponed over and over again. Recently, in my electronic mailbox, I received a circular from the RIZIV stating that the pilot project had been discontinued. That is a problem and I speak from experience. I'm sticking up for the dentists' patients, because they're screwed. The dental hygienists are currently not accessible to everyone. They are only accessible to those who want to pay extra for them, as their treatments are still not refunded. There is also unfair competition between dental hygienists and dentists. So, Minister, I think you fully support the principle of dental hygienists. After all, I remember, as you probably do, the 2003 Strategic Plan Mouth Care. Professor emeritus Daniel van Steenberghe wrote to it, someone from whom I have been taught for many years and who has made us aware of the importance of dental hygienists. I think he has also been able to convince you that it is very important in dental care to raise the level of oral care in this country as well. I wonder what you'll do next. What is your alternative and when will the treatments performed by dental hygienists finally be eligible for reimbursement? When will they have access to the nomenclature?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u35	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the National Dento-Mutualist Commission has in fact drawn up a pilot project to carry out an inventory of the overall field of activity of hygienists and has estimated the workload and average duration required for each service, in order to have all the information necessary to consider the introduction of oral hygienists into the health care system and to draw up a financial framework based on the reality of the field. Following the approval of the pilot project by the Insurance Committee on 28 June, INAMI published the call for applications on its website. Registration closed after a 15-day extension on August 31, 2021. On 2 September 2021, the Selection Board met to discuss the various applications. Unfortunately, only 15 applications were submitted, while 80 applications were planned for the project. The National Dento-mutualist Commission decided unanimously, after an in-depth debate on the issue, not to launch the project on 1 October 2021. The pilot project was indeed the preferred way of thinking to ensure a well-founded involvement of dental hygienists in the care landscape, but launching an additional call with the same modalities does not seem appropriate in the current context. We are looking at possible alternatives, but I cannot yet say which one we will be putting forward. Indeed, 20 years ago, I asked Professor Daniel van Steenberghe to report to me on dental and oral care in Belgium. I remember that very vividly, because that was an extremely interesting report, but unfortunately it did not really come to the end of the then legislature, sometime in early 2003, I think. It was too late to realize it or launch measures. Twenty years later, it is now high time for a large-scale action on oral and dental care. I think back with a lot of warmth to what Daniel van Steenberghe presented at the time. The health insurance budget, approved yesterday at the General Council, includes EUR 50 million for dental and oral care. That's a massive investment that's really needed. It includes the development of a nomenclature for dental hygienists, which would also be important to relieve the burden on dentists, and to tackle the scarcity in a number of places. That would also make the life and work of the dentist much more interesting and at the same time allow the dental hygienists to play the role they can play. Both from a health point of view and from a social point of view, these are very important measures. So it is a pity that the pilot project has not got off the ground, but I really want to start with the available resources to fully involve dental hygienists in health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answer. I was hoping that you would tell me that this pilot project was not abandoned but that it would eventually be adapted. Indeed, the question that arises in relation to such a small number of applications returned is whether the content of the project as planned was not too rigid or not sufficiently adapted to the field. You do not mention this aspect of things at all. You're not opening that door. I don't even know if you've even asked yourself the question, but I think it's still relevant. On the other hand, there is a real problem with oral health in Belgium and it is well known that the consequences in the medium and long term do not concern only the oral aspect. We know this since the data are known, we have an impact on the cardiovascular level, etc. The question is how we can improve the situation and especially by targeting children and adolescents at first. We can see that despite the gratuity, etc. They don't necessarily all move to the dentist. Since children and adolescents do not go to dental care, would it not be crucial to move dental care to where the children are? I've been arguing in this direction for a few years, but I'm still doing it here. I once again plead for the development, which is important, of all the dental prevention care of children and adolescents where they are, i.e. in school. This is really a public health issue that could be extremely promising in the short, medium and long term. This is, at least, a question I wanted to put back on the table. With oral hygienists, it seems to me that it is this type of project that we could and even should develop. We may be able to discuss this in more detail on occasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u38	Minister, I sincerely believe that you are interested in oral care and I would ask you to speed up a policy in this area. I do not think that a pilot project was necessary and I regret that a lot of time has been wasted. Mouth hygienists have been established in countries like Sweden or the Netherlands for decades; so we are really behind. Based on scientific literature, perfect conscience is where dental hygienists can be used in dental care and offer added value. I think it is simply a matter of allocating the nomenclature quickly, so that they can play their full part in practice. I am not necessarily concerned with making the package more interesting for dentists, but I am particularly concerned with improving the quality of oral care and the focus on prevention. There really is work to be done in our country. People should be reminded more often of the importance of paying attention to oral care, as this can largely prevent the more expensive treatments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think we all agree that prevention is very important and that therefore there is also an important place for dental hygienists in dental care. I share the hope that a solution will be found soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u40	Madam, at its meeting on 8 July, the Interministerial Public Health Conference on Drugs confirmed the priorities and actions proposed by the General Drug Policy Unit: "With regard to tobacco, the ambition is to implement an inter-federal tobacco policy focusing on a tobacco-free generation. Given the scale of the problem and the number of policy areas involved, this policy will be developed in phases. In a first phase, objectives, outlines and priority areas will be identified and verified. This should lead to a baseline score that will be submitted to the RTT. On the basis of this note, work will continue on the development of an inter-federal tobacco policy. An ad hoc working group will be set up on this subject." In terms of timing, the objective is to have a plan validated in September 2022. It is therefore not possible for me to anticipate the content of the work of the working group which will be set up this autumn to prepare this inter-federal policy. The details of the measures taken still need to be discussed with the relevant actors. However, I have already spoken about my federal jurisdiction. The following are possible: to strengthen the provisions on packaging and control of ingredients by applying to all tobacco products the measures already in force for cigarettes and rolling tobacco; to reduce the number of points of sale; to make tobacco packages invisible at points of sale; to implement all the provisions of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, ratified by Belgium, and in particular Article 5.3, which aims to protect tobacco control policies from the commercial interests of the tobacco industry; to improve monitoring; and to strengthen denormalisation. These are of course leads among others. The working group will explore all the provisions it deems necessary to implement in order to achieve a tobacco-free generation. Obviously, in addition to these health provisions, other federal departments will also be involved, such as the Finance Department, in the taxation of tobacco products. The consultation will therefore take place at inter-federal level within the working group specifically dedicated to the general drug policy unit. The agenda depends on the progress of the work of the working group. As indicated, the objective is to obtain a plan for September 2022. In the meantime, you have found that we have not waited for this comprehensive plan to increase excise duties on tobacco.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u41	Minister, I have been fighting on this for years. I've seen too many patients suffer and die. I remember how many screamed when I was fighting to protect non-smokers but also workers in horeca establishments. Finally, the Constitutional Court gave me reason. I try by every means to take new steps, to prevent young or old from starting to smoke. This can concern the places of sale, the exhibition, the marketing, the coating products that make you want. In the area of the protection of non-smokers, although progress has been made, there are still steps to be taken in particular with regard to children. We were talking earlier in this asthma committee. You didn't mention it, but exposure to tobacco plays a major role in the onset and worsening of asthma. Help with smoking cessation is another aspect on which we can act. A series of proposals have been tabled in Parliament, by my group and others as well. For a long time now, we have not taken any new steps. Perhaps, in parallel with the work that you have done between ministers, it would be good if we could take on our political responsibilities. This is, I dare hope, the path we are all going to take. It also remains to be able to do so in a positive and intelligent manner with administrations and different governments. I hope that we will move quickly to take new steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u42	Mrs Fonck, I confirm my intention to delete the moderator's ticket for the health benefits granted to living donors who donate organs, as was envisaged by my predecessor, Mrs De Block. As a reminder, the proposal provides that the personal contribution will no longer be due for all services provided within one year of the levy, which is a period of higher costs, as well as for clinical biology and radiology consultations and services, the main items of follow-up expenditure, provided from the end of the first year until the tenth year after the levy, whether or not these benefits are directly related to the levy. A notification form must be sent to the insurer by the transplant centre within one month of the removal of the organ. It is true that a lot of time has been spent on this file. This is due, inter alia, to the delay by INAMI in transposing the observations of the Council of State, in particular the transitional arrangements for the levies that have taken place in the past, and in consulting the Data Protection Authority. The transitional arrangements should therefore be reviewed with the representatives of the insurers, which is currently under way. We would also like to share with you additional measures to strengthen kidney transplants from live donors. A new project is currently being finalized by INAMI in collaboration with transplanting nephrologists on the apheresis that is necessary in the case of a kidney transplant from an incompatible ABO living donor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u43	Minister, I regularly come back to you with this question because of its issue, for which I have been very active. There are important waiting lists of patients waiting for a transplant. One of the main objectives must be to reduce this lack of grafts to be transplanted. Patients die from being on this waiting list. In addition, the later we transplant, the more complications we have in the graft. We therefore have every interest, when there is a possibility of grafting with a living donor, to do so. This often happens with relatives. I look forward to this because it was announced in 2016, and I had invested considerably in this. It's five years later. I hear comments about the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority, but it seems to me to be things that are not complicated. In other files, it can go very fast. Let me therefore stress this point because it is partly a question of procrastination which is not understandable. There is every interest, including in public health, in accelerating and removing all barriers to the donation of organs from living people. This is a major issue both for the person who makes a donation - and is therefore of incredible generosity as she gives part of her body - and for the beneficiaries, who are on waiting list, especially waiting for a kidney. Finally, it is also a public health issue. I hope that there will be no more excuses, good or worse, and that this royal decree will really be implemented as soon as possible. Thank you, but it is especially the patients who thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u44	"Mr. Minister, in July 2021, the Higher Council of Health published the "Belgian mental health monitor Covid-19, a method for following the government's response to the impact of covid-19 on the mental health of the Belgian population".
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u45	Thank you for your answer."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u46	Ms. Fonck, I always take note of the opinions and recommendations of the Higher Health Council (SHC). Since I took office as Minister responsible for Public Health, I have tried with my colleagues from different governments to react as quickly as possible in order to further optimize the psychological well-being of our people. In the Belgian Mental Health Monitor Covid-19, the CSS states that for this pandemic, it is crucial to ensure a coherent and integrated follow-up of measures to protect and support the mental health of the population. This is a sine qua non for mapping the impact and taking the necessary measures. More specifically, it is stressed that the measures already taken need to be closely monitored and that any gaps should be identified as far as possible. A number of instruments are proposed to achieve this latter objective. First of all, I can confirm that my administration provides meticulous follow-up on all mental health care measures for children, adolescents, adults and the elderly. The same applies to new measures under the covid, such as the strengthening of mobile teams for the elderly, students and the self-employed. We discussed this in a topical debate this afternoon. As the report dates back to June, a discussion has not yet taken place with the ICD federated entities. In addition, it was decided at the Consultation Committee on 5 March 2021 to put in place a return to the monitoring of available indicators to monitor the situation of mental health in Belgium. This tool was put in place in May and it is possible to follow it through a link. This dashboard is used to track some indicators over time, either from the beginning of the pandemic or from before. This work is part of the reflection on a continuous improvement on the collection of information. The latter will be necessary for a good mapping of the mental health situation in order to have the most correct image possible and then to be able to accompany both professionals and patients at the best.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answers, even though I have not learned anything. I won't go any further at this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u48	Mr. Chair, Minister, the figures now clearly aim for a much larger circulation of the Covid-19. This is not surprising when we know the characteristics of the delta variant which is much more contagious than the previous variants and necessarily than the strain virus. Nothing surprising about the activities that are being carried out mainly inside. Not surprisingly, either, with the return to school, the return to work after the summer, etc. A Sciensano document confirmed yesterday that the virus was circulating very widely, including in the age groups of children and adolescents. Traffic in the latter causes contamination at the level of families, people at risk and not at risk, and is therefore a source of further contamination. However, I note that the Ministers responsible for compulsory education have lifted a great deal of provisions at school level. There is no measure in terms of ventilation. CO2 sensors have not been made available to nurseries and schools for each class. The ventilation component is a major element, especially since activities are taking place inside. Barrier measures have also been severely lifted at the school level. In addition, the test-tracer-isoler component is widely questioned. Yesterday I read the words of the Minister of Children: "And if all children were left alone. We have to stop testing them, etc." However, the basic measures that are extremely important and that remain crucial and need to be implemented, even when people have been vaccinated, have not even been implemented. Minister, how do you justify the fact that we find ourselves in such a situation with measures in schools and policies put in place by the ministers responsible for health and education who remain very light, when we know that this is a major issue? In the workplace, there is a whole series of clear recommendations, but they are absolutely not implemented at school level. This is all the more important when we see the evolution of the figures. As Minister of Health, I would like you to be able to either confirm that you find that everything is going well on this side, or, on the contrary, take a clearer position on public health in relation to the impacts it represents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u49	Mrs Fonck, it is true that we are currently seeing a significant increase in contamination and therefore in the circulation of the virus. That's a cause for concern. I am studying what is happening, which is not entirely unexpected. Of course, the magnitude of the phenomenon and the consequences of the increased circulation of the virus on the number of hospitalizations and the number of descents to intensive care are very important. We must analyse what is happening, try to understand it and remain very vigilant. Before considering further measures, it is extremely important that the current framework of measures be rigorously applied. With regard to the authorities that have decided on the use of the Covid Safe Ticket (CST), this use must be effective on the ground and controlled, even if it is difficult. We realize that this can create tension, we have seen recent incidents. Vaccination efforts and testing, quarantine and isolation strategies must also be maintained. At the Consultation Committee and the Interdepartmental Conferences on Public Health, we set out a general framework for testing strategy. However, the Ministers of Education have strongly stressed their autonomy with regard to the operationalization of this strategy or these strategies. I must therefore refer you to the competent ministers who demand this autonomy and are responsible for the scrupulous and correct follow-up of the existing strategies. I do not comment on a possible revision of these strategies. It is clear that, for example, in an outpatient for general practitioners, the pressure of the testing strategy is strong and creates a lot of frustration. In this area, solutions must be sought that can alleviate the burden on general practitioners without reducing the number of tests and the strength of this testing strategy. I think there are solutions. We'll discuss it again in the morning. As far as schools are concerned, current developments show that a testing and quarantine strategy is needed. We can't get rid of it. That seems very clear to me, but I am not going to go into the details of these discussions now. I would just like to point out that the Ministers of Education have been particularly interested in their autonomy in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answer. You refer us to the Ministers of Education who wanted their autonomy. I take note of what you're saying. I also hear them, Minister of Children, Ministers of Health, Ministers of Education, say that all this will be decided on by the Concertation Committee. Whatever. One thing I'm interested in is the issue of public health. We can act with the tools we have: the vaccine, which is a powerful but not absolute weapon as seen with the Delta variant, the combination of the vaccine and all the other measures (test, trace, isolate), ventilation. You didn't answer me about that. However, it is not applied to its proper extent, particularly in schools where they are not given the means to ensure it under the best possible conditions. With all these tools and the maintenance of barrier measures, we are in a position to control contamination at best and to avoid explosions of contamination that no one knows – I agree with you on this – the impact they will have on hospitalizations. Will vaccination limit such hospitalizations or, on the contrary, could these hospitalizations explode? I can only insist, since a Consultation Committee will be held next week, to give you a public health framework with the scientific data that we know. Let each government shoot in the same direction! Indeed, I do not believe that the willingness of some to completely drop the measures in certain places is responsible, first for maintaining the courses and for children and, secondly, for public health. As far as screening – testing – is concerned, whether at the level of general practitioners or at the level of school medicine – is concerned, I imagine that it is for this reason that the Minister for Children has declared that we will leave the children alone – I think, like you, that it is likely that we will have to set up teams that will come in reinforcement to ensure this testing. I think there will be a way to mobilize these teams, given how volunteers, including volunteer caregivers, have been recruited as part of vaccination. As a result, converging models and approaches could also be applied so that teams can be set up to assist both general practitioners and schools in testing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u51	Ms Merckx asked to postpone her question No 55020415C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u52	It is not so well known that in the event of disasters, think of the Herald of Free Enterprise disaster, but also of the attacks in Brussels or recently the floods in Wallonia, dentists play a major role in the identification of victims. There are several ways to identify victims, but dental identification is by far the fastest and cheapest way to stick a name on a victim. Speed is of great importance in such disaster conditions, as the victims' environment wants clarity and certainty as soon as possible. If we want to involve dentists in the identification of victims, it is important that there is a proper and usable dental file. The law on patients' rights requires that a patient is entitled to a carefully kept and safe-kept patient record, but nothing determines exactly what the file should consist of. There is no control over it either, and there are no sanctions, if the file is not in order. The problem with the floods in Wallonia was that there was often also no access to the patient files because many dental practices were flooded. Such scenarios must be avoided in the future. What do you think is a carefully kept and secure patient file? Shouldn't that be better framed? Is it not better to set minimum requirements? This is important for dental identification, but also, of course, for the legal liability of the dentist. What is your attitude towards a central database, whether or not via eHealth, which also stores dental data, of course only accessible to the regular care provider and in exceptional cases also to the forensic odontologist? What conditions does a forensic odontologist have to meet today? Are these conditions sufficient or are specific training in forensic dentistry required?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u53	Each healthcare provider must keep a record of each patient being treated. When we are talking about keeping a file carefully and safely, we are talking about the organisation of the information in the file, which should enable us to find useful information at any time, and the need to keep the file in a place that is not accessible to anyone, and to take measures to prevent accidental damage. I would also point out that, in addition to the law on patients' rights, the law of 22 April 2019 on the quality of care practice provides that the King may determine the minimum content of the health care record of each healthcare professional and, with the agreement of the Council of Ministers, may prescribe a date for each profession from when the patient's file is to be kept in electronic format. In this case, of course, measures are also required for the security of access to information and the back-up of data. The Act is scheduled to enter into force on 1 July 2022. The development of a central database with minimum dental data that would only be accessible to the forensic odontologist in the specific context of an identification procedure would require the intervention of the Minister of Justice. However, I would like to point out that electronic vaults have already been developed in the various regions of the country in which each individual professional can upload his documents. These initiatives are designed to facilitate the exchange of information between professionals and also provide for the possibility of back-up of documents and remote consultation. Finally, we must add that the forensic odontologist does not have his own specific professional qualification. Doctors in stomatology have the possibility to obtain an additional professional qualification in judicial medicine, but such a thorough training is not required for most situations and such a requirement would also not be proportionate. Dentists have several professional titles such as general dentist, orthodontics, periodontology, but there is no separate professional title for forensic dentistry. The existing regulations do provide a framework whereby interested professional doctors or dentists can demonstrate, develop and maintain their own specific expertise. We mention the National Register of Experts of the Court of Justice, as provided for in the Civil Code, Part II, Book V on Legal Experts. It sets out criteria for professional competence and the necessary legal knowledge. Permanent quality assurance is provided, including a requirement of continuous training. Article 555/515 of the Civil Code provides for an exception procedure for cases of urgency or situations where a particular expertise does not exist or is insufficient in the national register. Thus, existing regulation seeks to combine both quality and flexibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u54	We are at the top in the field of forensic dentistry. We are very good at this in Belgium and are often involved in foreign disasters, for example in the disaster with the MH17 and in the tsunami. Yet the experts repeatedly point out that they are colliding with difficulties. I propose that, when further steps are taken in relation to electronic files, the opening up of files and the circumstances in which they do so, they should also be evaluated in relation to them and whether they still see points for improvement. It is important that they have access to dental records as soon as possible in order to be able to identify them as soon as possible. This is particularly important for the area around missing persons. I think that, in a country like ours, with very high quality health care, we can make high demands on the patient records. I hope that the necessary attention will continue to be paid to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u55	Mr President, Mrs Rohonyi, why has it not been made mandatory for hospitals to provide useful data by giving them the additional means to fulfil this obligation? Be aware that at first, clinical hospital surveillance of Covid 19 was very well carried out by enthusiastic health care workers, on a voluntary basis. A year later, we found ourselves with a combination of absenteeism, burn-out and fatigue reporting, resulting in a decline in the participation rate. This low rate of participation is particularly evident today as we face the fourth wave of hospitalizations. I come to your second question. Profile, age, sex, co-morbidity, results (transfer to intensive care, invasive ventilation, mortality) are collected. Thanks to the combination with the national registry number, we can also recover the vaccination status. In this way, it is possible to study the protective effect of vaccines and the profile of post-vaccination infections. If the entire genome sequencing of the PCR covid sample has been performed and recorded, we can also study the different variants. To do this, we obviously need a strong involvement of hospitals. As for your third question, the data is collected with the national registry number which is pseudonymized via eHeath, before being sent to healthdata.be within Sciensano. The collection of the national registry number is necessary to study information on long-term outcomes (ELICOM project), the role of vaccination and variants. To answer your fourth question, clinical data are generally available for 2/3 of patients in Belgium. It is important that a sufficient number of hospitals in all the provinces of Belgium participate in time to report their patients. In this way, we receive representative data from across the country. These data are available in a weekly report. A letter from the Interministerial Conference was sent to hospitals. This letter is intended to ask them to register their patients hospitalized for covid-19 within 48 hours in order to obtain the information on time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answer. I wanted to ask you about this for two main reasons. First of all, the Special Commission's report strongly stressed the need to ensure transparency vis-à-vis the infected and, in particular, hospitalized as a result of the covid. Then, today, in reading the press, we find contradictory data that do not help us understand the magnitude of the pandemic and the need for vaccination and the usefulness of the vaccine. It is, I think, essential to ensure transparency in order to convince non-vaccinated people of the usefulness of the vaccine, but also to be able, at some point, to take targeted measures towards the public most often hospitalized with regard to the statistics that would emerge from the work of collecting data on hospitalized patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u57	Questions Nos 55020457C and 5502558C by Mr Nabil Boukili are postponed at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u58	Mr President, Mrs Gijbels, the RIZIV has already produced three reports on the cumulative delayed care, which was sustained by the waves during the covid pandemic. These reports calculated the backwardness of each category. The biggest delay was in non-essential interventions of 22.8 %. Percutaneous coronary interventions were not delayed. The latest available estimates shall run until May 2021. The reports will be published in the near future. Not only the RIZIV makes such reports, but also other organisations such as the Foundation against Cancer. At the end of May, most of the surgical disciplines had a cumulative lag in performance between 10% and 15% of annual production. They show a catching-up trend at the beginning of 2021, again with a slight increase in the backlog from April as a result of the third wave. The third wave has had a significantly less impact on the care delays than the two previous waves. Especially vascular surgery with 28 % and nose, throat and ear surgery with 40 % have high delays and do not yet show a catch-up trend. Thoracic surgery is generally the least backward. At the level of benefits in kind, delays in certain open heart operations, transplants and hemicolectomies can have major consequences in particular. A recent international study by Aubert in The Lancet shows an estimate of the number of life years lost due to delayed transplants in several countries, including Belgium. From January to March of this year, the surgical interventions show quite a considerable catch-up. The peak in March was 26% more non-essential and 18% more essential surgical activities compared to the estimates based on the activities in the reference years 2018 and 2019. For internal medicine, the available data indicate that the accumulated lags in pneumology by 21 % and geriatrics by 20 % are significant and do not yet show any catching-up. For gastroenterology and neurology, a decrease is seen from December to 11 % and 9 % respectively. For cardiology, the accumulated deficit of 3 % has almost completely disappeared. For oncology there are no delays based on the available data. At the level of benefits in kind, the delays in allogeneic bone marrow transplants and endoscopy with biopsy can have a negative impact on the prognosis for cancer patients. For psychiatry, the accumulated deficit of care compared to precovid according to available estimates peaked in November 2020. In that month, the estimated deficit of care amounted to 11% in general hospitals and 10% in psychiatric hospitals. We see that a catch-up movement has started since December. It stagnated from the beginning of the third wave. At the end of May, the cumulative deficit of care decreased to 8% in general hospitals and to 6% in psychiatric hospitals. The answer to your last question is that we do not have a view on the iatrogenic damage, but on benefits in kind that are described as overuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which I will certainly read again in the report, since you have provided a great deal of information and I have not been able to record everything. Do I understand correctly that the three reports drawn up are not yet available for consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u60	Mrs Gijbels, these reports will be published in the near future. I'm a little surprised there isn't a single report audience yet. I thought that the first reports had already been published. I'll have my co-worker check it out. In any event, the prepared response states that the reports will be published in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u61	Mr Minister, I would just like to say that I think it is important that such reports are published publicly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u62	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u63	Minister, the delay is considerable, as I understand from your reply. The avoided iatrogenic damage is, of course, a sensitive issue. I think it is important to follow this up, with a view to developing as perfect a health care as possible. We need to have a look at the iatrogenic damage and we need a cost-benefit analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u64	Minister, children with a special need for care due to type I diabetes must also remain vigilant in their insulin therapy during class hours. Often a teacher or other trusted person assists them in this, without this person being a practitioner of a health profession as provided for in the WUG Act. The person in the example is also referred to as the competent helper, who should not be confused with the caregiver, as laid down in Article 124 of the Act cited. Other examples of such helpers are child care providers in crèche, educators in people with disabilities and volunteers who accompany people of all ages during social activities. On 19 December 2017, a protocol agreement was concluded on the cooperation between patients and healthcare professionals outside a healthcare facility, in order to define the role of the people who help patients. That agreement was concluded by the various governments of this country. In this agreement, the Federal Government undertook to extend the mentioned Article 124 to the competent helper and to provide a list of nurses who may and may not do so. The necessary drafts were submitted for advice to the professional nurses' organizations. Minister, do you agree that there should be a regulatory framework for the competent helper? Were there any consultations with the nurses' organizations on this issue? If so, what was the result? To what extent were preliminary drafts already discussed with the Länder, as provided for in Chapter 4 of the Protocol Agreement of 19 December 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u65	Mrs De Block, I am aware of the protocol agreement on cooperation between persons from the patient-client and healthcare professionals outside a care facility, signed on 19 December 2017 by the Health and Welfare Ministers. The nursing advisory bodies, the Federal Council for Nursing and the Technical Committee for Nursing delivered a consolidated opinion on this subject on 19 November 2019. The purpose of this opinion is to establish a quality framework for situations in which people who do not pursue a health profession can act as nurses in the form of subsidiarity. In my view, the opinion provides solid elements for the implementation of the 2017 Protocol. The issue is on the agenda this week for the Inter-Kabinette Working Party on Health Occupations in the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u66	Mr Minister, I cannot, of course, be aware of what is on the agenda in an inter-kabinets working group, otherwise I would not have asked you the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u67	No problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u68	I am pleased that further work is being carried out. I realise that there has been a delay, also due to the many work that the corona crisis brought with it. This would be a good thing for a lot of people who need help. At the same time, it is reassuring for those who wish to provide this help that they can operate within a legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u69	Minister, you know how much the healthcare sector is under pressure, not only since the health crisis, we forget it! Already before, the sector was devoted to infinity. He's under a lot of pressure. I would particularly like to ask you today about the situation of nurses and caregivers. They wrote to you several times and I'll be back in a moment. After the applause of the first few months of the crisis, there is a very legitimate shortness of breath and exhaustion. It is true that they feel betrayed and they have said and said it again. Admittedly, political progress has been made. It wasn't just applause. But the progress made is partial and insufficient on a number of aspects. Several months ago, they sent you a manifesto: that of nurses and caregivers with five priority areas for action. The first part concerns the recognition of hardship, the adjustment of wages and the improvement of well-being at work. The second part concerns professional autonomy, the ability to decide. The third part deals with structural reform of vocational training and qualifications. There has been a marked decline in the recognition of complementary training in recent years. The fourth part concerns the revision of the classification of IFIC functions, a subject on which I have often asked you with the removal of discrimination in the adjustment of scales. The fifth strand: social recognition and effective representation of the profession in decision-making. It cannot be said that things have gone well in relation to the issues involved in sending this manifesto. I recall the famous national demonstration on September 6. By the end of August, you had received a pre-event letter with two priorities to meet immediately, which the sector has been insisting on for years. Minister, acknowledge this: they have received 50,000 promises since all these years, they have always remained at the speech stage and not at the act stage. Their two immediate priorities, although the manifesto obviously remains full and complete for the years to come, are both the recognition of the penitentiality of the adjustment of wages and of the improvement of well-being at work, whether it be the tenability of the organization of work, the penitence of working circumstances (physical burdens, environment), the penitence on safety risks, mental and emotional penitence. This is a real priority for them. I believe that this is likely to contribute to the improvement of the attractiveness of the entire career and the profession of nurse and caregiver. We know how vital it is when we see the difficulty of hiring nurses and the reality of nursing schools, which see the number of young people who enrol. The second immediate priority in this famous letter at the end of August is the revision of the classification of IFIC functions because there are indeed discriminations and errors that are obviously not acceptable. This also requires adjustment of the scales. I'm not reading you the mail. They have given you a whole series of examples. For months, already with Minister De Block, I had alerted about the difficulties on the ground and double standards, which were in fact the consequence of the IFIC model. Mr Minister, I therefore wanted to ask you about all this, particularly today, to see how, beyond applause, we are going to act in practice. I would, of course, like to add the letter that you have also received in the last few months on the whole of the home nursing sector, which is known to be increasing, since the length of hospital stays is decreasing. As a result, they are increasingly heavy and also older patients with workloads that are increasing very strongly at home nursing level, without necessarily having time or opportunities to meet this burden, which is increasing as part of structural underfunding. Far too many savings were imposed on this sector from 2012 to 2018. Underfunding has also been measured and validated at the level of INAMI. Here, too, the field interlocutors who represent home-based nurses propose a range of measures that are clear and legitimate in relation to the reality of day-to-day care, but also in relation to the way in which they have been harmed for all these years. Minister, my question is very clear and concrete. What about the industry's priorities and the legitimate actions taken by the sector? Are there any plans for progress? Are progress planned or not? Have any things been translated into the budget? Is there a timetable for finalizing these various discussions? Have you worked with the Minister of Pensions on the issue of pension penitibility? What action will be taken with regard to nurses and caregivers, regardless of the sector in which they work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u70	Mr President, it seems to me that the inquiry is identical to an oral question put by Mrs Fonck. I had responded, but she could not have been there at that time. I'll give the same answer. First, my explicit objective is to give all people working in the health care sector the appreciation and support they deserve. These individuals, of course, include the largest group of caregivers, namely nurses. As you know, this legislature began with an unprecedented investment in our healthcare staff: more than EUR 1 billion of structural funds – 600 million for the implementation of the social agreement and 400 million for the White Blouse Fund. In addition, as a sign of appreciation and gratitude for our health care staff during the covid crisis, consumer cheques and incentive premium were added. In the meantime, these premiums have been paid to the care providers concerned. These investments are an important means of achieving the above objective. A series of measures are also beginning to yield results in the field: I am referring, among other things, to the White Blouse Fund, whose resources have been used in part to get the Chief Nurse out of the funding standard. This means that the federal government structurally funds an additional full-time nurse on average in the hospital funding budget. As a result, hospitals can recruit an average of one additional nurse for each hospital service. For example, some heavy services, such as intensive care, can be relieved by additional arms. In addition, professional nursing organizations ask legitimate questions about the attractiveness of their profession. I heard their call and took the initiative to create with the social partners a specific working group "attractive care professions". This working group will accelerate its work in the coming weeks, leading to a series of concrete measures that can improve the quality of the various care professions in the short and medium term. In addition, as far as nurses are concerned, a task force on nursing training is being set up in collaboration with federated entities, professional organizations of nurses and the education sector. One of his driving sons will be the identification of measures to increase the attractiveness of the nursing profession. With respect to your specific questions about IFIC, this system is evolving. About 10% of the functions are reviewed annually. This may lead to a change in the baraemic categories to a higher level. It is the content of the tasks and the description of the IFIC functions that makes it possible to determine a score and an IFIC category, and hence a scale. The positioning of certain nursing functions in category 14 and others in category 15 is the result of this work of description and weighting according to the IFIC methodology validated on a par by the social partners. In the context of the implementation of the social agreement 2021-2022, tripartite discussions on possible improvements to the IFIC wage model with the social partners are under way. This includes identifying new incentives or incentives to support workers who continue to train and specialize in our health care system. This work is carried out by ensuring consistency with the IFIC system in place and ensuring that the solution is properly and sustainably funded. Several working groups are currently meeting. At the level of social consultation in the context of the deployment of the social agreement 2022, there are first of all the IFIC working groups: - a working group for monitoring and improvement of the IFIC model, in which the issue of specializations is also discussed; - a specific working group on the deployment of IFIC in the public sector. Secondly, a working group on the qualitative improvement of working conditions and the attractiveness of health professions. Then there is the inter-federal task force on nursing training in collaboration with federated entities, professional organizations and education. We hope to achieve concrete results from all of these working groups by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u71	Minister, for the first time, we have a timetable. Some measures are planned for the end of 2021. It is very good to set up a series of working groups, but these should not be front-end working groups. We need very concrete measures. You always come back on the billion. For me, it essentially includes decisions from the previous legislature and deals with two aspects. However, it is recognized that, in relation to these two positive aspects, a number of others are equally fundamental. I hear positive things and I hope that this will move forward. On the other hand, I notice completely missing points. I did not hear you on the aspect of penitibility, which is one of the major elements put forward by the sector as a priority. I say again, it is a promise that has been made for years, and not just by passing policies, but by ministers and governments. This point is still in limbo today. When I ask the question, everyone always pretends it doesn't exist. This is a major point, including in relation to the issue of attractiveness. Finally, I am hearing a possible reopening of nursing specializations. I continue to say, Minister, that on IFIC, there are indeed major corrections to be made. Some things had not been taken into account or properly anticipated. This is part of the concertation, it is true, but perhaps some have been set aside too quickly in the concertation. So we couldn't anticipate the mistakes. But now that everyone knows, that we've been saying it and saying it again for months, we have to be able to correct them. There was no word on your part with respect to home nurses. Yet these have also written to you with particular requests. I did not hear you on this point. Finally, I will give one last item before I announce the motion. It concerns the premiums of 985 euros gross per full-time equivalent worker and the consumer cheque of 300 euros. You know I've already asked you about them several times. I had a lot of contacts and insisted that those who had not received them should bring an application at the level of INAMI. But it must be noted that in the field, a whole series of nurses did not in fact receive any reply, either concerning the files first introduced, or even in relation to the appeals filed on time and on time with copies of files. Months pass. I hope that INAMI will be able to deal with these appeals quickly. Accordingly, I have tabled a motion of recommendation to the government with five points. I will not read it, Mr. President, since I sent it by e-mail. I have referred here to the points in a cross-sectional way, but they are reproduced in black and white in the document I have addressed to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u72	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Catherine Fonck and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government - rapidly adopt, in consultation with nurses and caregivers, structural measures to improve the attractiveness of the profession throughout the career; - to ensure, in consultation with the Minister of Pensions, that the tenability of the nursing profession is recognized; - adjust wages, correct discrimination in IFIC functions, review the classification of IFIC functions; - to improve well-being at work and to review the standards of supervision; - to ensure that all nurses have received their premium of 985 euros gross per full-time worker and the consumer cheque of 300 euros, and that the appeals lodged are dealt with promptly." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Catherine Fonck and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, asks the government - in consultation with nurses and health professionals, to rapidly take structural measures to make the profession more attractive throughout the career; - ensure, in consultation with the Minister for Pensions, that the weight of the nurse's profession is recognised; - adjust wages, eliminate discrimination in respect of the IFIC bands and revise the IFIC job classification; - improving well-being at work and reviewing the framework standards; - ensure that all nurses receive their premium of EUR 985 gross per vte and the consumer cheque of EUR 300, and that the appeals lodged are dealt with swiftly." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Karin Jiroflée. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Karin Jiroflée. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gijbels has withdrawn her question. Debates of the European Parliament 55020506C Mr Warmoes's 55021341C were postponed to their question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u73	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, this issue has been raised for some time now. As we know, the situation is changing every week. The issue specifically addressed the Brussels hospital situation, when a significant increase in hospitalizations and contamination was observed and care staff were concerned about it. I will not repeat the debate on regional measures and immunization coverage in our capital when the objectives are not met. Since my question was tabled, specific measures have been taken. Minister, is a more complex situation in Brussels hospitals still feared by the end of October? How many CPAS have opened immunization units? Are specific measures needed for Brussels to accompany intensive care services in the coming weeks in terms of staff reinforcement, logistics and infrastructure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u74	Mrs Taquin, I read the answer that my services have prepared for me. They have prepared a specific response on the role of the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee, a committee that tries to help hospitals by collecting extensive data and which is composed of representatives of all governments, Defence, hospital domes, health professionals and experts. He also gave opinions. Mrs Taquin, you are asking me about the situation in Brussels. I prefer to answer you in general. The regulatory role of the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee works well and needs to be continued. The distribution plan should be used more widely and proactively, for example, by not limiting itself to patients with covid-19. The staff problem is important, as we know. We also know that, in order to strengthen the workforce, the solution of acting is exhausted. Non-care active health personnel have already been mobilized and deployed. The phase and plan to reduce and restart regular activities under the state-of-the-art capability plan will be used again. The crossing at the upper level of the plan must be approached pragmatically. It is necessary to aim for a gradual but timely rise in power. As far as the vaccination campaign is concerned, the Cocom is competent to organise vaccination in the field, for example via CPAS offices. I prefer not to go into an answer on this. But in general, what I can say, Mrs Taquin, is that the situation in the Brussels-Capital Region remains very fragile. We saw a significant increase in contamination and hospitalization, and then a plateau. Today we see a significant increase in other provinces, the Walloon Brabant, but also in the Flemish provinces. There is an outbreak of the pandemic everywhere, not especially in Brussels. However, the level of virus circulation and the level of hospitalization and intensive care remains very high in Brussels. Given the low rate of vaccination, the situation remains extremely fragile. I very much welcomed the willingness of the Brussels government to maintain in October the crisis management measures that existed in September. I believe that this has been a good decision and that we must persevere in this direction. There is obviously also a need to monitor the implementation of all these measures. I also welcomed the decision to use the Covid Safe Ticket in the Brussels-Capital Region. It is an instrument of safety, and also of awareness regarding vaccination. It is important that this instrument be applied scrupulously. We can't relax. I'm not going to say any more in detail. I am studying the evolution with my advisors to see what needs to be done to best respond to the outbreak of contamination that we see across the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u75	Minister, thank you for the explanations you gave me. I take note of the fact that the minister is following the situation closely, which I had no doubt, and that we are still and once again in a fragile situation. I can therefore only support the measures concerning schools that were referred back to by a colleague. It is known that the ventilation of the premises is extremely important. In doing so, Minister, I can only ask the federal government to insist on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u76	Minister, health applications are growing more and more. This new technological contribution for the greatest number, as often, is speeding up certain information, awareness and prevention requirements. This creates a need for adaptation and accessibility to specific and scientific information. We know that the level of health literacy is not enough in our country. In this context, it appears that results and diagnoses are placed on these platforms and made accessible to patients, even before their family doctor. This creates misunderstanding, legitimate fears and obvious difficulties for general practitioners. Have you been aware of any malfunctions in these platforms? Is it correct that medical results are given to patients even before communication to the family doctor? What controls are carried out by the Public Health FPS on these platforms? What controls and analyses have been carried out recently? Has there been any recent consultation with the federations of general practitioners on this issue? Why is it not mandatory that the system inform patients' general practitioners as a matter of priority before patients have access to the data themselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u77	Dear colleague, the applications you are talking about, Mynexuz and Helena, are private initiatives - as there are many - that are not controlled by the Public Health FPS. Each hospital or ambulatory care structure is likely to develop it and the practices of these platforms are far from homogeneous. Regular consultations with stakeholders in the field, including general practitioners, are organised within the framework of the eHealth Platform Access Working Group with a view to achieving harmonisation. However, the fact that these platforms are based on different governance rules and technological architectures is an important obstacle that must be overcome. Laboratory analyses or medical imaging examinations are carried out on the basis of a secure medical prescription. If it comes from a specialist physician, the general practitioner will only become aware of it in a second stage, provided that the patient has consented to the sharing of his or her health data between healthcare professionals who have a therapeutic relationship with him or her. As long as the patient has given his or her consent, the information will be available via the hubs and metahubs system or in a safe. This information is, a priori, accessible at the same time to the patient and to his general practitioner, but it may be that the patient consults the information before his general practitioner. Asking general practitioners to open up access to information for the patient, after becoming aware of it, would be a very important administrative burden for them, and could lead to a situation where the patient himself would not have access to his data. Finally, it should be noted that, a priori, when a doctor prescribes a laboratory analysis or an imaging examination, he is supposed to explain the reason for it to the patient and the information he hopes to have through the results. This should already give the patient guidance on how to interpret these results. But it is also true that efforts still need to be made to improve health literacy, as well as digital literacy. Initiatives are under way in this area, as part of the future evolutions of the mahealth.be portal, through which the patient is invited to consult his or her health data.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u78	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that regular consultations are taking place, that you are sensitive to the problem and that initiatives are under way. I also hear the difficulties, but it is an extremely important subject. In the interest of the patient, I invite you to continue your efforts and I will come back to interview you in a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u79	Minister, medical expenses resulting from accidents in the exercise of a so-called high-risk sport are covered by mutual funds. The framework for care appears to be limited and partially defined by INAMI. A lack of information would be recurrent while accessibility to INAMI's decisions would be problematic according to some people who have found themselves in such situations. So how does INAMI define high-risk sport? What is the precise framework for taking care of medical expenses following an accident in the practice of such a sport? What rules do they regulate mutual care? Is it correct that mutual care is set at 70% of the total medical expenses that have occurred? Are sports excluded from INAMI refunds? Does INAMI establish an exhaustive list of high-risk sports that are covered? If so, is this list shared with the population? Are sports excluded from mutual care? Are there any differences in care according to the mutual care chosen by the athlete? Finally, do you intend to take steps in this regard to better inform the public and to make information on current care more accessible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u80	Mrs Taquin, in general, it seems to me important to point out that there are no measures restricting compulsory health care insurance interventions because of the cause of the medical costs. To answer your questions more precisely, high-risk sport is not defined by INAMI. There is no specific framework for the treatment of medical expenses arising from an accident in the practice of such a sport. The cumulation bans and subrogation rules will be applied if the sporting practice takes place in a professional setting or if the fault of a third party is established. However, these generic rules apply to all sports. The rules governing the provision of health care through compulsory insurance are laid down in the Compulsory Health Care and Allowances Insurance Act, coordinated on 14 July 1994, as well as in its implementing regulations. Thus, the health benefits listed in the health benefits nomenclature are reimbursed. It is incorrect to say that coverage by compulsory health care insurance is set at 70% of the total medical expenses due to the practice of a high-risk sport. There is no tariff differentiation depending on the cause that resulted in medical expenses. Therefore, no sport is excluded from the coverage of compulsory health care insurance, since no reference is made to the cause of medical expenses. As regards differences in care according to the mutuality chosen by the athlete, the compulsory insurance component is identical in all mutualities. On the other hand, the coverage of certain costs by supplementary insurance is different depending on each mutuality. To the extent that there is no limitation on compulsory health care insurance interventions due to the practice of a high-risk sport and that your inquiry is the first received on this subject in the state of my information, we do not intend to immediately deploy any specific communication on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u81	Minister, thank you. I can only tell you that I am reassured by the answers you have given me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u82	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you again about this subject which has occupied our work in the context of the motion for a resolution which we voted on 23 September and which aims to make the vaccine a global public good. In this context, I welcome the decision of Belgium to send 4 million doses to third countries in cooperation with the VOCAX mechanism by the end of the year. In early September, we delivered 187,200 doses of vaccines, for example to Armenia. However, these steps are still insufficient to achieve global collective immunity, as Amnesty International pointed out in its report of 22 September. Amnesty and other associations are denouncing vaccine inequality around the world and are calling on companies as well as governments to provide more vaccines to poor countries than is done today. It is in this context of necessity that I am surprised to see that our country has ordered vaccines for a fourth dose, while the Vaccination Task Force has recently stated that there is currently no indication of the need for a third dose, in any case for those under 65 years of age. Belgium is part of the European Commission's contract for 900 million doses of Pfizer vaccine. Your spokesman stated in this regard that "we have reserved our share in this framework for 2022 and 2023 in order to be sure that we will then be able to vaccinate if necessary". Minister, are you considering helping third countries other than through the VOCAX platform? If so, how? How are third countries chosen in the context of donations made by our country in collaboration with VOCAX? How is the number of doses to third countries determined in Belgium? How will you implement the requests contained in the resolution adopted on 23 September? Are you prepared to go further, anticipating the Big Pharma's refusal to cooperate and giving your government guidelines to proactively act in the event of a refusal of voluntary licensing by vaccine-producing pharmaceutical companies? How do you explain the reservation of these third and fourth doses for 2022 and 2023, when a third dose is not yet widespread and some developing countries have not yet given the very first dose of their population sufficiently? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u83	Mrs Rohonyi, to answer your first question about third dose at home and vaccination in poor countries, know that adequate coverage of vulnerable people at home can go hand in hand with global solidarity for global coverage to stem the pandemic. We are committed to giving at least four million doses through solidarity mechanisms. I am thinking in particular of VOCAX and the European Civil Protection Mechanism (UCPM). The Interdepartmental Conference (IMC) concluded that an additional dose would be required for people over the age of 65 in the coming months. Given the number of doses we purchased, the ICD found that we had a sufficient margin for donations that went beyond the commitment we have already made. Through the UCPM mechanism, we give, on a bilateral basis, doses of vaccine already delivered to our territory and which cannot be offered via VOCAX. An independent committee within VOCAX evaluates, taking into account the priority destinations set by Belgium as well as on the basis of objective and scientific criteria (logistical capacity, etc.).), countries that may receive donations. How is the number of doses to third countries determined? Priority shall be given to the stock intended for the Belgian marketing year. If this stock is sufficient to cover the needs, in continuous consultation with federated entities and federal authorities, excess undelivered doses are proposed for donation via VOCAX. If new needs arise for the Belgian campaign, deliveries may resume within a relatively short period of time (one to two weeks), so that the VOCAX donations can always be compatible with the smooth running of the Belgian vaccination campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u84	Minister, thank you for your answer. Like you, I am convinced that we must not choose between the vaccination coverage of the most vulnerable populations in Belgium and our duty to show solidarity with the poorest populations. However, today, despite the planned donations that have already been made, the doses offered are still insufficient. Spring 2022 was announced for some donations. It is very late to meet the goal of achieving collective vaccine immunity. Moreover, it is not for nothing that the resolution that has been voted on by the European Parliament goes much further than that which we voted in our Parliament. I am concerned about the emergence of future variants by mid-2022. I'm worried about how many people are going to die because they haven't had our chance to get vaccinated. I would like to reiterate Amnesty's call for two billion doses of vaccines to be delivered to low- and middle-income countries by the end of 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u85	"Mr. Minister, according to the projections of the Institut Pasteur, from the beginning of September, France could reach 100,000 cases of contamination per day, half of which would concern children and adolescents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u86	•Do you have recent data on the transmission of the virus by young people to adults?"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u87	Dear colleague, the number of hospitalizations of children due to covid-19 is low. Detailed figures are provided only with some delay and in a non-exhaustive manner. Available figures are published in the Sciensano Scoreboard. It can be seen that, during the week of August 30 to September 5, only 2.2% of hospital co-vid patients were under 20 years of age. These are both patients hospitalized due to covid as well as patients admitted for other reasons with an additional and fortuitous diagnosis of covid-19. All positive tests for covid-19 in Belgium are subject to a reporting obligation and are registered centrally with information on the patient's age. Genomic sequencing (i.e., detection of potential variants) is performed on a random sample of these positive tests. The follow-up of covid contacts in teaching is carried out by the school medical surveillance service which collects the information and transmits it to Sciensano. The vaccination status of high-risk contacts of infected individuals, e.g. parents of infected children, is available to health inspections in order to transmit the correct testing and quarantine guidelines. The guidelines on follow-up of contacts in teaching as well as the general guidelines on follow-up of contacts have been published on the Sciensano website and communicated to the stakeholders concerned. Like other covid-19 procedures, these guidelines were based on scientific advice and validated by the Risk Management Group, in which the federal government and the governments of the Communities are represented. We observe a higher incidence in all age groups and therefore also in the younger age groups in areas with the lowest vaccination rate. However, despite the high vaccination coverage in Flanders, we still see an increase in the incidences in the younger age group in which the virus continues to circulate. There are no recent figures. Transmission of the virus is possible between people of all ages and depends on different factors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u88	Minister, thank you. We have addressed the mental health of young people and we see how much it is at stake to allow them to have many contacts with each other, to have a healthy social life while being protected from the virus. In this regard, we see that the figures are rather encouraging, but I do not think that we can reduce our efforts to raise awareness among schools and parents about the usefulness of the vaccine and about the need to continue to respect, as far as possible, the actions that impede it. Minister, I very much appreciate your efforts to ensure good consultation with the federated entities in terms of prevention and awareness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u89	Mr President, Mrs Gijbels, as far as your first question is concerned, the HTSC Committee is composed of representatives of all governments: Defence, hospitals, healthcare professions and experts. The opinions of the HTSC are based on epidemiological and hospital figures known on the day of the opinion of the HTSC. The analysis and interpretation of such data shall be made within the HTSC in addition to short-term forecasting models. The answer to your second question is as follows. Two short-term prediction models are shown in the weekly report of Sciensano. I shall then come to your third question. On the date of the scaling-up decision, 7 September 2021, the latest weekly report was dated 3 September 2021. Within this report, the prediction of the number of patients at ICU was on 5 September 194 with a confidence interval of 133 to 261 and on 9 September 204, with a confidence interval of 133 to 277. On the date of the decision, 225 covid-ICU patients were present within the hospitals. Although one of the two models predicted a stable trend on 133, it was more likely on 7 September that the upward trend of the second model was followed, with a value varying between the predicted value and the maximum value of the confidence interval. Extrapolation of this trend up to a week later made it plausible that the 300 beds of phase 0 would be exceeded. Within the weekly report of 10 September 2021, the prediction of the number of patients at ICU was 219 on 16 September, with a confidence interval of 145 to 304. This modelling confirms the analysis also made by the HTSC on 7 September. A proactive warning of the hospitals with a demand for scaling up was at issue. Fortunately, a week later it appeared that within the evolution of this pandemic there was another trend break, with the beneficial effect that the scaling could be revoked. Fourthly, the prediction models are predictions with a confidence interval. This confidence interval decreases as soon as the trend becomes clearer. In the event of a rapid increase or decrease, it is at its smallest, with a plateau phase, the confidence interval is the widest. What we ask of the HTSC is to advise and make decisions based on models that do not give any certainty. If the predictions indicate a possible danger, it is appropriate that the HTSC should take this into account and take proactive safeguard measures. If they did not do so, they would be switched too late, with all the negative consequences. This methodology, based on scientific prediction models but complemented by the knowledge, experience, expertise and the progressive insight of the members of the HTSC, has demonstrated its added value several times over the past two years and will not be changed for the time being. Finally, the impact of the initial advice and the reversal of this advice has been kept to a minimum thanks to the enormous flexibility that the hospital sector and its staff have been able to maintain for more than two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic603x.u90	Mr Minister, the question is whether lessons have been learned from this. We once organized a technical session on the prediction models used. Choices are sometimes made, by taking certain factors into account and avoiding others. I was wondering if those models took that into account. There's a big impact when you say hospitals need to reduce their capacity utilisation. I therefore understand that no lessons have been learned from this and that the existing models will be continued.
