ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 November 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 November 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u3	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Michel De Maegd, rapporteur, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u4	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2016/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2016/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u5	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u6	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Kattrin Jadin, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u7	Madam President, Madam Minister, allow me to thank you for finally presenting this text to our Parliament. This morning, I am going to talk a lot about Belgian Luxembourg, a province with less than 300,000 inhabitants. Sometimes we feel we are left behind because we are far from the decision-making centres. As you can see, recently, following our discussions in committee, a Belgian journalist who is employed by the Grand-Ducal press – Nicolas Léonard – calculated the number of days that separated the announcement of the measure allowing Belgian residents working in the Grand-Duchy to do so 24 days a year outside the territory of their employer and the date on which this provision was voted in committee. It reached a total of 2,044 days! I didn't check that information, but I trust him. He did not use this calculation to give a headline effect to his article, but he wanted to highlight what happens when you live in the background of the country. We've got fog now. You know that in this case, you don't see very far in front of you. We do not yet have snow or ice, but I sincerely hope that in the future we will be able to work faster, including when this province has a very low population density. What this journalist highlights is the number of days during which a rule of law may find it unnecessary to legalize its actions, or even justify its failure, while asking a part of its population to keep the slightest restaurant ticket that could prove that it was in its law only one day. Minister, I know that this is a matter for the Minister of Finance. However, when I see, still today, the number of super strict controls that some borderers are experiencing, I ask myself a lot of questions. I ask you, at the government level, to do everything you can - reassure yourself, I do not want to condone tax fraud - so that people can live properly and are not harassed regularly by services that ask them for evidence that they are practically unable to provide. Minister, at the borders of this country, there are people who are asked for evidence when they are subject to tax control. This situation can last for months, months that - as I said - use health and morale, while the state does not respect the rules. I shall briefly return to the history of this important vote today. This vote is very important for the people of my region, since in our communes, and particularly in my commune of Attert, 60% of the working population work in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. This is to tell you that we are being asked daily about what is evolving between the Grand Duchy and Belgium. On 16 March 2015, Johan Van Overtveldt, then Minister of Finance, announced that borderers living in Belgium and working in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, will now be able to work outside the Grand Duchy where they are employed, 24 days a year, while remaining taxed. This amicable agreement shall enter into force retroactively on 1 January 2015. On 5 December 2017, this agreement was the subject of an amendment to the Belgian-Luxembourg tax convention aimed at avoiding double taxation. It is signed by the Belgian and Luxembourg governments - I say "the" governments - but it is not submitted to Parliaments. In May 2019, Charles Michel, whom Mathieu Michel knows very well, announces with his friend Xavier Bettel - whose mother tongue is Luxembourgish, as for me - that a new amicable agreement has just been established between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. It seemed to me to be a very great victory. In fact, the right to work 48 days a year outside the employer country is to be granted, while still being imposed. I no longer count the number of emails, telephone calls I have received from workers from all professions (lawyers, road hauliers, etc.).), which legitimately requested further information in this regard, which, inter alia, wanted to know the date of entry into force of the Agreement. But I had no information to answer them. With this announcement, as was the case with the government declaration of 2020, it was considered that the press was more important than Parliament or even the administration. This announcement was shattered by the following reality: how to spend 48 days while the 24 days previously announced were not legal. Indeed, in order to be legal, the amicable agreement of 2015 should have been the subject of an amendment which should have been approved by the Federal Parliament. That is what the Council of State notes in its opinion on the bill that will be put to the vote today. Let me read out an excerpt from this: "In concluding this agreement, the competent authorities of the Contracting States have obviously exceeded their competence, provided for in Article 25, § 3 of the Belgian-Luxembourg Commission. In principle, this agreement should therefore be referred to as a treaty, which, in accordance with Article 167 of the Constitution, can only have effect in the Belgian legal order after having received the consent of the competent Parliaments, and which is not enforceable against litigants until it has been published in the Belgian Moniteur. The administrative practice in implementation of this amicable agreement applicable to wages, salaries and other remuneration relating to taxable periods beginning on 1 January 2015 is therefore for the hour without a treaty or legal basis. The conclusion of the agreement, to which it is currently agreed, retroactively validates this practice."Thank you, Minister. Indeed, it was time for things to be regularized. I continue my reading: "It remains, however, that improper use has been made of article 25, § 3, of the Belgian-Luxembourg CDI, which, as a matter of principle, is unacceptable." I have addressed parliamentary questions on this matter to successive ministers in the Finance Portfolio. Reading the first answer left me pantois. I thought it was the 2017 or 2018 agreement that was targeted, but it was the 2015 agreement. I have never received a very clear answer. I was told that a 48-day delay wasn't tomorrow the day before. Why, then, should it be announced with great pomp as a historic agreement, as I myself had considered? I have always been cautious in my communications to the press on these answers. As the Council of State notes, no one would have had an interest in having a dispute opened over the situation of thousands of border workers benefiting from this agreement. I repeat once again that these thousands of frontier workers are citizens who live in our border communes in southern Luxembourg, even more so in this part of Belgium called Arelerland (Land of Arlon). Since we are Luxembourg speakers, Arelerland is a reality. A book was even published a few years ago by an alderman from the commune of Arlon, entitled L'Arelerland, a forgotten community. And that's true, Madam Minister. You who manage external relations, you might be able to correct the shot. We have two Luxembourgs. A website now brings together more than ten thousand people who are fighting for the reunification of the two Luxembourgs. We would be very happy to have such an event.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u8	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u9	I don't understand, minister. I'm a certain age and I hear less well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u10	Mr Arens, I was just doing a bit. When you started talking about reunification and community, I saw your N-VA colleagues staring at you with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u11	A story of unification! Through my remarks, I mean that we are luxuries-speaking. Sixty per cent of the working population works in Luxembourg. Imagine what the municipalities of South Luxembourg would be without this job centre in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg! Of course, everything I have said is not very much for the state coffers, but for the taxpayers it represents a great deal. The covid had at least this positive: it made it possible to simplify the situation for many workers and for the administration. The administration was obliged to apply texts that did not have Parliament's approval. The agreements made to allow frontier workers to work at home from the beginning of the covid, until 31 December 2021, are legal and published in the Belgian Moniteur. On 17 August 2021, the government sent the text to the House for consideration. He proposed that the 2015 friendly agreement (24 days) be submitted to Parliament. I was sad last week, Madam Minister, that this item had been removed from the plenary agenda. I was hoping it wasn't because of a problem. Today it is on the agenda and we will be able to vote on it, which I welcome. On 31 August 2021, Minister Van Peteghem concluded an agreement with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and we followed the press conference with great interest since it concerned days of telework and the allocation to municipalities in which frontier workers reside but who do not pay taxes. We were surprised to hear that the number of days of telework was limited to 34, while everyone expected 48 days. The bill that will be passed today regularizes an unacceptable situation both for frontier workers, who have heard everything and anything about the number of days of telework that they were allowed to take outside Luxembourg territory, and for officials of the FPS Finances, who were asked to implement the decision when their conscience told them that there was still a problem of legality. Minister, I am counting on you and you can count on me to ensure that the 34 days are achieved very quickly. According to the comments of the journalist of Paperjam in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, if we take as much time for the 34 days as for the 24 days, it is not until 2027 that Parliament will be able to ratify this convention. So I really count on you to ensure that in the coming months – and at the latest at the beginning of 2022 – we can ratify the agreement reached a few months ago for the 34 days. In addition, I will continue the fight for the 48 days announced in 2019. Minister, I really count on your action so that we can quickly regularize the situation and approve in Parliament every 34 days and prepare for the 48 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u12	Mr Arens, thank you for your statement. Mr Loones has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u13	Madam President, I would like to take the floor briefly. I got to know Mr. Arens' passion in the Finance Committee. There are different kinds of politicians, and I am very much in favour of politicians who stand up with a warm heart for their own region. I was hoping that Mr Arens would have used some patois too, because dialect always colors the debate, but since he has not done so, I cannot put my finger on the West Flemish, which I would like to do. Madam Minister, we are now discussing an agreement with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the very important issue of frontier workers. I know this very well, as I myself live on the Flemish West Coast on the border with France, right next to the area we call the Schreve. From there, too, we see the problems of people crossing the border to work. Things don't always go the same way. That is why you are also working with France on a bilateral agreement. More than that, it was signed on Tuesday. There is now a whole procedure, because that agreement must be approved by all parliaments in this country and also in the French Parliament, so it may enter into force from 1 January 2023. That bilateral agreement contains an element that is not surprising. The taxes go back up, but well, we would have expected nothing else from this government, certainly with regard to the tax burden on movable income. I also wonder why such dossiers, such as those with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and those with France, are not used to show greater assertiveness in the European debate. We all need each other. However, I can see some Member States saying quite clearly that they are very focused on Europe, but in fact they are mainly defending their own interests. I refer to a President such as Mr Macron, who has a very pro-European image, but has a very French-nationalist policy. When I see what challenges we have, I sometimes find it a pity that we do not show that same assertiveness. Let me give a very concrete example: the windmills off the French coast in Dunkirk. France has plans to put giant windmills there, right off the coast, right in the middle of European nature reserve, right in the middle of our sailing routes. This is a tragedy for our economy, for the ports of Zeebrugge and Antwerp. It's not good for the environment. It is also a tragedy for tourism. The Flemish government and Minister of Justice Van Quickenborne have been taken to court for this, but they have no leverage, they have no real power to bring it in. Such files are now typical files that can be used for this purpose. There is a Donner-Donner there, France also needs something to reach an agreement. Madam Minister, I call on you to take this assertiveness to heart and to see whether it can be forced. After all, it is impeccable how we are singing beautiful European slogans and asking them nicely, but seeing that other countries stand up more strongly for their economic and other interests. It's an important theme. Next time I will discuss it in the West Flemish, which I solemnly promise, when Mr Arens will also make his speech in his brilliant dialect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u14	Madam President, I would just like to make a little clarification. The Luxembourg language is a true language. It's more than a dialect. She's officially recognized. I'm still proud, and I'm happy. Ech sinn ichteg frou als de Här Benoit Piedboeuf, lo do, als mir schwätzen... [[?]] Hien schwätzt et net sou gutt wei ech, ma mir sinn awer frou, als mir von déier Provinz sinn. Ass and net wouer, Benoît? Thank you, Villmols.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u15	Madam Chair, I thank both speakers. Mr Arens, as we have seen in committee, there is a great deal of passion for a subject which is not only of interest to you but to all cross-borders, and we know how many of them are. Yesterday, we celebrated the 100th anniversary of the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU). On this occasion, we were able to recall our very strong ties. To return to what has been said here, even when we are countries fundamentally attached to the same values with very similar paths from a historical point of view, it sometimes takes time to realize our common ambitions. We can still see it on recent files. I will make a first comment on the consents. This is something that has been discussed during the passage of these texts in committee, but also in the context of the policy note. We have had a very serious delay in the approval of the draft laws. At the beginning of this legislature, 60 were in the pipeline and today 15 will be completed. That means there's still 45 in the pipeline. Meanwhile, however, there are already 14 new designs. So we're back to the level of 60 hanging designs. The intention is, of course, that the Committee on External Relations, which is working very hard, should remove this delay as soon as possible. You are asking me to send a message to my colleague the Minister of Finance on unnecessary red tape when it comes to taxpayers. I have no difficulty conveying this message, and I will do so with great pleasure. There was the question of how, for example, in the dossier on Dunkirk and more general agreements, could we use more assertive action against France? We support the values of the EU, but the importance of our country is also important. France is acting on its own behalf. I do not see why we should not, of course, do so with the necessary levers. We need levers. We have tried several times to avoid a dispute on the Dunkirk dossier, but we have not been heard in France, which I regret. I raised the problem with my colleague, Mr Clément Beaune, and asked how we could improve the situation in Dunkirk, but there was no answer. It is rare for a country to take legal action against another country, especially Belgium against France, which is very exceptional, but that is what we are doing. I have tried several times to find a solution to the situation myself, but I have established that nothing was possible. That's why we're right where we are. Everyone has the means to defend their own interests, and that is exactly what we are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u16	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I apologise to Mr Arens: I certainly did not want to dismiss Luxembourg as a dialect. On the contrary, he has encouraged me to recognise the West Flemish as much more than a dialect. Now seriously, Madam Minister, I am very pleased, firstly, that your reply shows the ambition of assertively following France's example, and underlines that in your view nothing stands in the way of us taking up this role and function. It will make the discussions in the Foreign Affairs Committee with Mrs Van Bossuyt all the more interesting if that becomes your government's policy. Secondly, you say that you are trying everything and that exceptional legal procedures are being put in place. I acknowledge that and welcome your initiative. However, I regret that you only use the legal leverage, although there was also a political leverage. That's the double taxation agreement. This has nothing to do with the substance, but in politics everything can be linked together. I regret that you do not seize the chance of leverage. In any case, I wish everyone involved in the procedure, at least on our side, every success, so that the plans for Dunkirk are changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u17	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u18	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2158/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2158/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u19	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u20	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u21	Madam President, since this theme is less passionate than Luxembourg, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u22	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u23	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2179/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2179/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u24	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u25	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u26	Madam President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u27	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u28	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2210/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2210/3) The title has been amended by the committee in draft law assenting to Convention No. 188 on Work in Fisheries, adopted in Geneva on 14 June 2007 by the International Labour Conference at its 96th session". The title was amended by the Committee in draft law approving Treaty No. 188 on work in the fisheries sector, adopted in Geneva on 14 June 2007 by the International Labour Conference at its 96th session." The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u29	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u30	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u31	Daniel Bacquelaine, Benoît Piedboeuf, Christophe Bombled, Caroline Taquin, Florence Reuter, Michel De Maegd.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u32	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Anja Vanrobaeys, rapporteur, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there will finally be more financial flexibility for our seniors living in nursing homes. Our bill, on the Orders of the Day today, will allow them to distribute the management of their pocket money as they wish. It is a very concrete proposal inspired by the terrain, which will directly facilitate the lives of the residents. As confirmed by the Organic Law of the CPAS of 8 July 1976, residents of nursing homes who receive social assistance already receive an annual amount of pocket money payable so far in one instalment or monthly instalments. The current amounts are EUR 1 211.31 per year or EUR 100.94 per month. Such a sum of cash in a resident's room can generate covetousness and thus theft, and sometimes violent assaults, especially against the most vulnerable. Our proposal now allows for the weekly payment of this pocket money. Of course, this will only happen if the beneficiary so wishes. The objective, as I said, is greater flexibility, less money in the rooms of the residents and therefore less risk of theft and aggression. This is a request from the field, I repeat. The CPAS Federation has been calling for this since 2009. It should be recalled that some CPAS already practiced it, even if the legislation did not yet allow it. It's now done. As soon as the proposal is voted, I hope unanimously, as in committee, it can be put in place. I would also like to thank my colleagues from other political groups for their constructive work in the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u34	It was intended that Mrs Moscufo would take the floor, but she was not present to defend the amendment she had tabled. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u35	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (681/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (681/5) The bill has two articles. The bill has 2 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u36	Art. 2 • 3 – Nadia Moscufo cs (681/6) * * * * * * * Conclusion of the discussion of the articles: Decision of the article-by-article discussion: Reserved: the amendment and Article 2. Sustained: the amendment and Article 2. Adopted article by article: article 1 Article adopted by article: Article 1 * * * * * * * The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u37	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Vanbesien, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the bill before us today is to correct a situation inherited from the past whose legislative framework was not well defined. Historically, Proximus maintained a database with all telephone calls and addresses of telephone owners. Proximus has asked to be removed from this task, but the new list needs a clearer legislative framework. This database is very important because, for example, emergency services receive 5.6 million calls each year – 15,000 a day – at numbers 100, 101 and 112. Many calls are "white", that is, one person calls these services and then nothing happens. It is therefore important that these services have access to information such as the appellant's address in order to be able to intervene if necessary. These private data, which are centralised by operators, must be subject to legal control. The Data Protection Authority (DPA) agreed to the draft, which is annexed to the meeting document. I would like to share with you a testimony that was transmitted to me last June. A father bought a gsm for his 13-year-old daughter. She was a brand new subscriber and yet she received a series of advertisements the next day. As a result of this event, we have asked for an amendment so that this list is not an opt-out list, as it is called in the jargon, i.e. a list where one can ask not to receive advertising, but an opt-in list, i.e. a list where one must agree to appear and receive information from trading partners. This amendment protects people who do not wish to receive information. In conclusion, the establishment of a legal framework and the progress made in the field of consumer protection mean that my group naturally supports this project. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the minister and the committee colleagues for all the work they have done on this project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u39	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u40	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2257/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2257/4) The title has been amended by the committee in draft law amending the Act of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications with regard to the central number database." The title was amended by the Committee in its draft law amending the law of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications with regard to the central number database." the bill has 7 articles. The draft law contains 7 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u41	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u42	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u43	Madam Chair, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u44	Madam President, I would like to make a brief speech, as I have already done in part in committee. The draft law before us, which we will be voting on later today, is an important protection against unfair commercial practices, especially for our farmers. We fully support the objective of the draft law before us, but we do have some reservations. These will not be new to you, Minister. A first thought is that the King is given wide powers to modify and even supplement the black and grey lists of unfair commercial practices. It is remarkable that this has been included in the draft, especially since the Council of State had given a very clear opinion on this matter which it did not consider possible. However, the government did not accept that opinion. A second reflection, which was also reflected in the opinion of the Council of State, concerns the opinion of the Data Protection Authority. In the draft there are some provisions relating to personal data, and that is why we thought it useful and necessary to seek the advice of the Data Protection Authority. The Council of State had also pointed this out, but the government also ignored the opinion of the Council of State. As regards the protection limit to determine its scope, it has been chosen to take over the protection limit of the Directive. An exception is provided for, which we certainly welcome for the associations of recognised producer organisations and producer organisations in general. The threshold does not apply to them. Moreover, this is a lex specialise and we still have general legislation for those who do not fall within the scope of application on the basis of which they can defend themselves against possible unfair commercial practices. That is a good thing. With this I have outlined our main concerns, but they will certainly not sound new to you, Minister. Moreover, at European level, we have also called for better protection of our farmers against unfair trade practices in the food chain. One final element, it is good that the directive also allows Member States to tailor legislation, taking into account their own legal system. For all the above reasons and because we are in favour of the main objective of the draft law, in particular the protection against unfair commercial practices, our group will, despite some reservations, vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law before you aims at applying to Belgian law the directive on unfair commercial practices in the agri-food chain. This directive aims to protect suppliers of agricultural and food products – particularly farmers, but not only – from unfair commercial practices imposed on them by their buyers. Unfair practices in the preparation of commercial contracts are a reality that exists as soon as one of the parties is disproportionately stronger than the other. These practices were not new, since Adam Smith had already referred to them in his book La Richesse des Nations in 1776. The author stigmatizes "the petty capacity, the monopoly spirit of merchants and manufacturers who are not or must not be masters of humanity". At the time Smith denounced the English monopoly of tea of the Indian Company. We are not far from it with companies such as Google, etc. Some 250 years separate us from the publication of this book. But here, the invisible hand of the market is not enough. It presupposes an infinite number of actors, a free flow of information and the availability of infinite materials. Thus, recently – during the pandemic –, closer to home, we witnessed the relentless domination of fry producers. This sounds silly, but the haunting farmers – who are my neighbours – who supply them with potatoes see their agricultural reality made of hazards relentlessly butt against the unscrupulous demands of the fry producers. Remember, these abusive business practices had been denounced in RTBF's Investigation program. The Directive concerns suppliers whose turnover is less than EUR 350 million per year. This amount remains the same as in the European proposal, and I think it is correct. No, neither Coca-Cola nor Nestlé will be able to use it to pressure distributors such as medium surfaces. What is the progress of this proposal in relation to the original text of Europe? The text establishes two lists of unfair commercial practices: a blacklist that includes unfair commercial practices and a grey list that includes unfair practices without evidence to the contrary. These lists are updated by the King. As Adam Smith already pointed out, the creativity and petty sense of monopolies are limitless. We must therefore be able to quickly add a new practice that these monopolies could have created or invented. Finally, this proposal concerns all perishable and non-perishable foodstuffs. It's a novelty. I am particularly pleased with this lack of distinction because how can we make a difference? A non-perishable food product is kept for six weeks. This is the case with the potato. The distinction would have reduced the scope of this proposal in an intolerable manner and would have led to a multitude of discussions in our courts. For these reasons, I would like to thank the Minister and colleagues for the work they have done. I think this is a positive response to the complaints we have received from farmers, and it is an effective follow-up to this investigation program. The Ecolo-Groen Group will obviously support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u46	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u47	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2177/6) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2177/6) the bill has 18 clauses. The draft law contains 18 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u48	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u49	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Rigot, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u50	Madam President, it is clear that Vooruit fully supports this draft. During the government negotiations, we were asking for a clear passage in the government agreement on an evaluation procedure for the Council of Foreign Ministers. We also asked for the disciplinary regime to be developed into a fully-fledged system of order and disciplinary measures. That passage was made at the time. That's exactly what's going on here. It is also very good that the much-needed extension of the framework at the Council of Foreign Ministers does not just happen, but is linked to the evaluation procedure, a fully-fledged system with a wide range of disciplinary measures. In a previous enlargement of the framework in July 2020, before the current majority took office, I also asked questions about this. I felt that such an extension of the framework should be accompanied by an audit or, preferably, by a structural solution such as the evaluation of the judges of the RVV. For what, I'll tell you what. Everyone's share isn't too much, and so are judges. The majority of judges do their job excellently, but those who do not should be able to address it. That's just normal. As I said in the extension of the temporary framework in June 2020, if measures can be taken against judges with insufficient output, the vicious circle of delay in the file can be broken. That structural solution is now in place. It goes without saying that we are very pleased with this. I would have liked to address Mr D'Haese, who, however, has been apologized here. Colleagues of the N-VA, I very much welcome your support for the draft, both for the extension of the framework and for the evaluation and disciplinary procedure. However, I regret that certain issues still had to be challenged in committee. Your party delivered the Secretary of State during the previous legislature. At that time, the RVV itself indicated that there was a problem, or at least a working point. It was stated that most judges are highly competent, have a great deal of expertise and hard work, but that there was a problem with some of them that could hardly be dealt with or very difficult to deal with. The administration then prepared a draft to do something about it, also on the initiative of the RVV. That was ignored, however. More than that, your party is leaving the government and fleeing responsibility for the migration pact, the so-called loose beast I still haven't encountered. Your party is then in opposition and it is time to clear the cabinets and see what's left in them. There has never been any consultation on that proposal, but it appears to be ready and is therefore being submitted. I am glad that this government did what was necessary and entered it into the government agreement. One year later, it's a fact. So that's not a policy of announcing, it's a policy of doing. That is the heart of the matter for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u51	Mr. D'Haese is in the building and hastening over here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u52	Ouf! Mr D'Haese, sur le fil!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u53	Madam President, I apologise first because I have just come to the finish line here. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for taking on board very good proposals that were initially put forward by us. I'll explain in a minute. We have initially tabled a legislative proposal, almost all of which, with the exception of a few minor detailings, have been fully adopted. It is very important in this country to consider the way justice is spoken in the various sections. It is not by chance that I have previously questioned Mrs De Block about the very significant difference in the statements made by the Council for Foreigners in the period 2017-2019. You will find this objectified in the annual reports. Measuring is knowing. The dates show that there are enormous differences between the linguistic roles as regards the right of asylum. French-speaking judges grant refugee status nine times faster. Flemish judges are nine times stricter on the right of asylum. That's what attracted our attention. Mrs De Block could not really give a satisfactory answer to that at the time. At that time, we looked at how the case law on which anyone is based, regardless of which side of the country, is always based on the same legislation, was so different. This brings to light the delicate nature of what is called enough activist justice. For our group, it is extremely important that justice is done completely independently, professionally and properly. What we do not want is that we are lagging behind. That is why we shall be voting in favour of this draft today. As far as the delay is concerned, I must point out what has happened in the past. Mr Francken, who is unable to be here today for legitimate reasons, has been able to reduce this delay in dealing with the number of dossiers very sensitively. When Mr. Francken started as Secretary of State in 2014, there was a backlog of 32,000 files at the Council for Foreign Affairs Disputes. He managed to bring that down to 20,000 by the end of 2018. Mrs De Block has gotten that number a little bit lower, to 16,500. After that, it went completely the wrong way again. It is important that there is a guide to which that court should stick. We will support the draft because of an important update and legalisation that puts an end to the still existing complex evaluation procedure in the RV. Four different arrangements are in place: an evaluation for the members of the Board and the Presidents of the Chamber, an evaluation for unappointed Deputy Officers, an evaluation for the appointed Chief Registrars and an evaluation for the Registrars. There is now a line drawn. The possibilities of sanctions are also adjusted, with a warning, a reprimand, a suspension and a dismissal. Without becoming too technical, efforts are being made to achieve a level playing field between the various judicial authorities, with the Council of State as a model for the deontology and disciplinary procedure. We are very pleased with that. The N-VA has tabled an amendment. I was not yet present, but I suppose Mr Segers has already said something about this. In the past, he has always supported our proposal, which is why I think he will also support our amendment. In the end, it may not be as bad as one of the others overwrites, but I have rarely seen copy-pastes as in the text before us, Mr Secretary of State. You have only changed three articles, which still have a connection between them. What we need to do is very simple: it has to work. I am thinking of a fine statement by French philosopher Michel Foucault: "Qu'elle est dangereuse quand elle n'est pas utile!" Justice becomes dangerous if it doesn't work properly in all parts of society. Well, it has to work. To know if it works well, one must occasionally dare to objectify things. How come there are such differences between the different parts of the country? That there are differences is normal, that is independence, but if those differences lead to the fivefold or in some cases even the tenfold of judgments, then there is something else going on. That is a fortiori so if the framework extension is the same per language role. We want to check whether this works properly by means of a workload measurement. By the way, that is a question from the magistrates themselves, within the RVV. So let's see how that goes. Maybe we should scale up. Perhaps more magistrates are needed structuralally instead of on a temporary basis. Well, at least we'll know. That is why we are tabling an amendment to Article 14 (2) of the Law of 6 May 2009 on various provisions, last amended by the Law of 16 July 2020, which reads: "The first chairman shall organise a workload measurement every five years, starting in 2022." Well, that's convenient, because at least you'll have a reading. Then we can discuss the efficiency of things meaningfully afterwards. I would like to go on with the text of the amendment: 'the modalities of which are specified in a KB taken by the Council of Ministers. The results of the workload measurement shall be submitted to the Chamber of Representatives." There is nothing anyone can do to ensure that we monitor and adjust the efficiency of judicial bodies in a properly objective manner throughout the country where this is necessary. We shall express our confidence in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u54	Mr D'Haese, you used a French proverb. There is another proverb that you sometimes use: "Mieux vauttard que jamais." I don't want to spare you the results of my first meeting with the RVV, even though I usually keep first meetings to myself. The RVV insisted that, among other things, we should address the evaluation and disciplinary procedure. You're talking about students who overwrite, but I know others. Anyway, I underlined that I would do something about it. The response of the RVV to this was cynical laughter, because the RVV had already asked this question years earlier to the then Secretary of State of the previous government and had made a proposal on it. Unfortunately, nothing happened at the time, which led to a lot of frustration at the RVV. It is, of course, not a bad thing that your party subsequently,tard but not jamais, is submitting a new proposal which is also inspired by the proposals made by the RVV, but I would have preferred it to have happened earlier. We also take into account the comments of the Council of State in the draft. After all, the initial proposal, for which you were inspired by the RVV, had received comments from the Council of State, and we have taken that into account in order to do exactly what is expected of us. You stress that judges must properly implement the law and interpret the law correctly and not become activist judges. I totally agree with that. In order to achieve this, I would have liked to have been the one student who quickly overwrites the text from his colleague, as you say. I would have liked, as has been expected for years, to have passed legislation. In that case, magistrates would not have to base themselves on articles in foreign law referring to other articles which no longer appear to exist. In fact, in the last ten years, foreign law has been adapted so often that judges do not even know what is in foreign law. I would like to be the student who quickly looks away from the predecessor to write, for example, a migration code. It would have avoided the possibility for judges to rule on the basis of crooked legislation. Unfortunately, there was little on the neighbor's paper to watch out for a certain result. Moreover, we need to speed up the processing of asylum applications. We do this in the government at many stages of the procedures and on a structural basis. It is right to refer to the achievements of my predecessors, including Mrs De Block, in order to overcome the backlog. With a view to structural solutions at the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, at the Foreign Affairs Office, at Fedasil and at the Council for Foreign Affairs, we have, firstly, extended the framework temporarily and use the evaluation and disciplinary procedure as levers. There are clear commitments to tackle the backlog. If this objective is not achieved within three years, it will have the necessary consequences: after three years, enlargement of the framework will be reduced. It therefore looks at the efforts made or not to maintain, broaden or even simply reduce the temporary framework. Secondly, the Council's annual report on foreign disputes is also an instrument. I don't have a problem with the occasional planning burden measurement. But making the plan load measurement structural, while there is an annual report together with a clear plan for a temporary framework, would mainly cost more than what that measurement would yield. I am particularly pleased that together, without too much delay, we will be able to get the RV to do what it has to do, namely to function properly, to ensure that the many magistrates who do their work as well as possible every day finally have a procedure whereby everyone will do what is expected of him or her and that we do not see the backlog rise every so much time to be proud that they will be able to fall again, but will be able to see a structural decline.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u55	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your explanation. I did not hear you mention one word, which is very important in the dossier, in particular the measurement of workload. You also say a bit cognisantly that you like to overwrite, that you have a good habit of studying business and that you do not have to look away from the person sitting next to you or in front of you. There's something else I want to tell you. We have a common goal and you're a pilot in the cockpit. I'd like to be your copilot for a moment and point out to you your board tables. You will find them in the annual reports. I refer, in particular, to the relationship between the dictatorships of judgments, as is literally stated in the annual reports. You will find it on page 18. You have to keep that statistics in mind all the time. The annual reports are very concise, which is an advantage. They barely count anything more than twenty pages, but there is incredibly much information in it. If you do not get rid of the differences between the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking roles, you will have a huge problem in this country. You must do everything you can to eliminate these differences. You are doing this now on the basis of equality, which we will support: equivalent language roles that are expanded on an even basis. But we have an influx of an input and an output, which is also objectified in the report, and we are lagging behind. It's like the bottleneck in that backlog that needs to be dealt with. We now have a different right of disciplinary action, but we also need to see who is doing what in that right-making structure. I think that's very important. I would therefore like you, on this proposal, which we can support, to also deal with the amendment on workload measurement. This has been repeatedly requested by the Committee on the Interior. Mieux vauttard que jamais, I agree, but you have taken a lot of time, as is shown by the dates of the various interventions and reports, including the opinion of the Council of State. We can and must bring it to a successful conclusion now, in the interests of the rule of law, but linked to a workload measurement. That is a question that has also repeatedly come from Vooruit. I hope I can count on your support for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u56	Madam Speaker, it's stronger than myself. I am a very interested spectator in this, because I have been an official at the study service of the Foreign Affairs Department for many years. I am going to be somewhat sidelined in the migration debate, because we have very expert people following that dossier, but I remain a very interested spectator. Mr Secretary of State, what strikes me is your assertive communication style. I do like the fact that the debate is being held firmly and that choices are being made. At the same time, I notice that communication is not always proportional to reality value. I've learned a number of lessons in the Foreign Office. One of the first lessons I learned at the time of Mr Wathelet was not to say that he was lagging behind, say working stock. Suddenly there's no problem, there's no lag, there's a work supply. We have seen that the working stock under Secretary of State Francken has indeed fallen in the area of asylum applications. I do not even want to talk about the major asylum crisis. The working stock was initially 13,000 and dropped to 4,800. That's a working stock for a normal period of three months, something the CGVS can handle perfectly. The figures at the RVV were also mentioned. There the working stock under Theo Francken fell by 37.5 %. Mr Secretary of State, I note that your work stock is not falling, but rising. The day before yesterday, 200 people were not registered, while they wanted to claim the start of the asylum procedure. There are families with children who are not registered and sleep on the street. That's the superb stairs of work supply, that's just not taking people in. That did not even happen at the time of the major asylum crisis, when children and families were registered. Mr Secretary of State, I do like your assertive communication style. In itself, you are pursuing a quota policy. I find it interesting to see that from a distance. You set a limit on the number of entries. I am very surprised that Ecolo and the other left-wing parties are making peace with that. In the past, there has always been a strong opposition to this, but now there is a Secretary of State in the government who de facto pursues a quota policy and does not register everyone who is at the door. That's with your aval, with the accord of Ecolo, Green, Forward and the PS. Your government is de facto pursuing a quota policy on the ground, something to which you have always relied so strongly. I welcome assertive communication, but it is also a pleasure to see that it corresponds to the actions on the ground. The second point, Mr Secretary of State, is the measurement of workload, which I do not understand. A few months ago, it was discussed here that the Foreign Affairs Office should be audited. All the Vivaldi parties were in the front row at that time to say that the Foreign Affairs Office had to be put on the roster. However, if an objective workload measurement is simply requested now, then you are going to get rid of it by referring to the annual report. As an official of the Foreign Affairs Office, I co-authored the service's annual reports, so I know the contents of them. It contains very valuable information, and our officials are doing a wonderful job. However, that is something else than a thorough workload measurement and you know it perfectly well. In the past, for example when discussing the judicial district of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde, sp.a with Renaat Landuyt was the first to ask for a workload measurement and for Open Vld Annemie Turtelboom stood on the barricades. Of course, CD&V and our party supported that question. Why can't that then perfectly legitimate question be asked today? What is preventing you from putting these figures objectively? I think I know what's bothering you so much, Mr D'Haese has already appointed it. You are the only one in the government who succeeds in implementing a truly asymmetric policy with one federal law. In fact, I must congratulate you on that. Your policy in Flanders is different from that in Wallonia, although it is based on one and the same legislation. You are the only one who succeeds, and you are implementing that paragraph of the coalition agreement. Of course, you have no merit in doing so, as this is simply a matter of reality. French-speaking judges in the Council for Foreigners, but also in other areas, have different jurisdictions than their Dutch-speaking colleagues. That's why we can't have this workload measurement. It could become too transparent. It would therefore be a good thing for you, the colleagues who have argued in the past for objective figures and for an audit of the Foreign Affairs Office, to support at least our amendment. I find it a pleasure in the political arena to find out who's writing over from whom and who's fast. Yesterday we saw some of that. We submitted a text and Green copied it a year later. However, they prevented it from being voted on yesterday, because the government must vote on it. Mr Secretary of State, Mr Segers, you say that Mr Francken has done nothing about it and has left it for far too long. I took a quick look at the data. Mr Secretary of State, you say that this was the first thing the RVV told you during your very first conversation. However, when I look at the dates, I note that you submitted your bill on 29 September, a year later. So it was in the drawer. They arrived at the first meeting and you waited a year to submit it. A communicative style is interesting, but some operational modesty could be brought into line with that. So far, an interested spectator. I do not want to interfere too much in this debate, there are people who undoubtedly know the details of this dossier much better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u57	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u58	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2228/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2228/4) The bill has 27 articles. The draft law has 27 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u59	Art. 2/1(n) • 2 – Christoph D’Haese (2228/5) * * * * * * * Conclusion of the discussion of the articles: Decision of the article-by-article discussion: Reserved: the amendment Sustained: the amendment Adopted article by article: 1-27 Article adopted by article: 1 to 27
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u60	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u61	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Van der Donkt, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u62	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2211/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2211/3) The bill has 25 clauses. The draft law has 25 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u63	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u64	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Vanbesien, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u65	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2224/3 We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2224/3) the bill has 52 clauses. The draft law contains 52 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u66	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u67	Not related Without report
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u68	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u69	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u70	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2213/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2213/3) the bill has 7 articles. The draft law contains 7 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u71	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u72	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u73	Madam President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u74	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u75	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2214/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2214/3) the bill has 5 clauses. The draft law contains 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u76	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u77	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u78	Pieter De Spiegelaar, Barbara Pas. The Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1474/2) The Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1474/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. Mr Wouter Raskin, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the province of East Flanders is currently the only Flemish province where passenger trains still run on diesel, especially on the lines Ghent-Eeklo, Ghent-Oudenaarde-Ronse, Ghent-Zottegem, Ghent-Geraardsbergen and, of course, the line known to Mr D'Haese, Aalst-Burst. All over Belgium there are only five passenger lines still operated by diesel trains. It is remarkable that four of these five lines are located in East Flanders, the shuttle province to the Brussels-Capital Region. That is somewhat cynical, because the same East-Flemish commuter, like his other fellow commuters, is not allowed to drive into Brussels with his diesel car, while in that same province of East-Flanders still 20th-century passenger trains roam on diesel. So a person would ask for less questions. The Flemish Interest does the same. Colleagues, the regions, local authorities and interest groups have often expressed complaints and reservations about this, not only about the ecological aspect but also about noise pollution. In addition, it is not an insignificant fact that Flanders is a long-time asking party to take the diesel engines off the grid. The question was already formulated by the Flemish government in 2013 through the well-known Flemish Railway Strategy to the federal government. Electrification of the lines in question was an option, but repeated questions from myself, among others, and from some Members to Mr Gilkinet, were simply answered that electrification was not a priority and, above all, priceless. That electrification will probably never happen. That is why this resolution calls for maximum innovation and the launch of a project to encourage the use of hydrogen for passenger transport. The Flemish interest advocates using hydrogen-powered trains for passenger transport on these non-electricised railway lines in East Flanders. It is not uninteresting to know that three of these four lines have Ghent as departure and/or end point, which will undoubtedly benefit the practical layout. The fourth line, Aalst-Burst, can also easily connect to that Ghent centre with a slight change of route. Mr Vandenbroucke, together with me, knows that the region of Ghent, with North Sea Port as its driving force, is one of the pioneers in innovation, particularly as regards hydrogen. Also not insignificant is that three of these four lines trace through rural and quiet areas, mainly Meetjesland and the Flemish Ardennes. Those less polluting and less noisy passenger trains are welcome there. An additional reason for starting this pilot project as soon as possible is the fact that Meetjesland and the Flemish Ardennes are known as Leader+ areas by the European institutions and the Flemish government. Another important addition to this grant channel is the additional measure Countryside Plus, a collaboration between the provinces and the Flemish government. We therefore see in this initiative the possibility of giving these regions and certain cities an extra boost that will and can strengthen the positive, rural and green image and the tourist attraction of these regions. I do not want to sound derogatory, but some of these cities, I am spontaneously thinking of Geraardsbergen and Ronse, do have a less good image in terms of mobility with very poor accessibility and socio-demographic and economic challenges and weaknesses. Such initiatives can enhance the image of these cities. It can give citizens a certain pride and give them the feeling that they are not forgotten. The fact that we did not invent hot water with this resolution proves the numerous examples from almost all neighbouring countries. In Lower Saxony in Germany and Friesland in the Netherlands, trains already run on hydrogen. The port area of Ghent is also a test area for trains on hydrogen. According to the research commissioned by Shift2Rail, a European Railway Initiative, and Hydrogen Joint Undertaking, 30% of diesel trains can be replaced by hydrogen trains and trains by 2030. With this motion for a resolution, we do not want to miss the train of the future. So we want to jump on this innovative cart. In addition to ecology, innovation and providing local and regional impulses, it is also a test of the credibility and internal confidence of this Vivaldi government. In the last few weeks, none less than our Prime Minister has mentioned the possibilities of hydrogen, including in public transport. I quote: "We are already offering sufficient transparency to say that we will invest EUR 1 billion over the next three years. We are already making clear where these investments are going. For example, a quarter of these investments will go to rail. It is crucial, in a country that is and will remain a manufacturing country, to ensure that rail transport can take a more competitive place in relation to the current situation. We are also investing in hydrogen because we know that our country has enormous potential to become a node in hydrogen networks that will be an important vector for energy in the future." A few weeks later, our Minister for Energy, Mrs van der Straeten, with suitcases full of ambition went to the summit in the dreary Glasgow, to confirm once again that it is her goal to turn our country into the central hub of Europe, the rotary wheel for hydrogen. Colleagues of the majority, I suggest that you do not embarrass Prime Minister De Croo and Minister Van der Straeten. Make sure that they did not speak empty words in Glasgow and here, during the government declaration and the State of the Union. Do not betray their confidence and that of the East Flemings and support this resolution massively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u80	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip140x.u81	The next item is the vote on the nomination of the Vice-President of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervisory Board. The next item is the vote on the appointment of the Vice-President of the Office of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. The document containing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you. (2273/1) The piece with the names of the candidates was delivered to you. (2273/1) In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 21 October 2021, members were able to vote from Friday 22 October 2021 to today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 21 October 2021, members were able to vote from Friday 22 October 2021 until 4 p.m. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the counting of the ballots. This will now take place in Room 3. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the vote. This will now take place in Room 3. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting on Thursday, 18 November, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 18 November at 2.15 p.m.
