ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u1	Mr President, Minister, the subject was discussed last time, but there may already be some current news. That's why I'm asking my question. Belgium is now part of the Blue Leaders alliance of more than 20 states, which are committed to protecting 30% of the oceans by 2030. To this end, a number of objectives need to be achieved. In particular, a new agreement on biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction is needed for marine protected areas on the high seas. The target of 30% protection should also be included in the new strategy of the Convention on Biological Diversity 2021-2030. Your policy paper announced that in 2021 it would actively focus on the expansion of the Blue Leaders alliance with new members. You wanted to play a leading role in this matter. We know that the objective has already been achieved in Belgian national waters. Has our country succeeded in attracting new members to the Blue Leaders Group? What will be the precise contribution of Belgium within the European Union and the Blue Leaders to the preparation of future negotiations under the United Nations, with the fourth Intergovernmental Conference on Marine Biodiversity of Areas beyond National Jurisdiction being held in August 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u2	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, since 2019, our country has been one of the pioneers of the Blue Leaders. As you know, this is an alliance of countries that are committed to achieving global protection of at least 30% of our oceans by 2030. Two actions are needed to achieve this goal. Firstly, we need a new and ambitious UN Convention on Biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction, the so-called BBNJ agreement, which will allow the creation of marine protected areas on the high seas. Secondly, the adoption of a new post-2020 biodiversity framework at the next biodiversity stop in Kunming in China is necessary. It will be organised in October 2020. The new strategy should enable the target of 30% ocean protection by 2030. When I joined as North Sea Minister, I committed myself to inviting as many countries as possible to join the Blue Leaders. Thanks to this campaign, which was launched at the end of 2020, Finland, Monaco, Denmark, Nigeria, Croatia, Kiribati, Austria, Sweden, Gabon and Fiji have recently joined the Blue Leaders and in turn organised a variety of events to encourage other countries to join the Blue Leaders. Since the launch of the campaign, we have welcomed a total of 9 new members. I am convinced that we will be able to increase this number in the future. Organisations such as the Natural Resources Defense Council, Greenpeace and the World Surf League have also supported the social media campaign. Recently we also had a fruitful conversation with the Minderoo Foundation, an Australian organisation with a large network within Oceania, to discuss a collaboration with the Blue Leaders. Other countries such as Norway, Switzerland, the Netherlands and Luxembourg also support the Blue Leaders' objective, but do so through the High Ambition Coalition for Nature and People. The aim is to protect 30% at sea and on land. This coalition now has 60 members, including the European Commission. In the context of the actions I have taken, I have also made contact with European Commissioner for Environment, Oceans and Fisheries Virginijus Sinkevičius and Frans Timmermans, Vice-President of the European Commission responsible for the Green Deal, because I also want to have the necessary support at European level for the Blue Leaders. Because of the pandemic, of course, several international events and negotiations could not take place, but we also organised a lot of things online. In response to one of these events, I had a personal meeting with John Kerry, the special climate envoy of the United States. Of course, I have informed him that we are pleased that the United States is once again a member of the Paris climate agreement. In turn, John Kerry complimented our country on the leading role we play on the international stage, both in terms of ocean protection and in terms of reducing emissions to shipping. On April 20, I was also one of the speakers on the Ocean Side Event, entitled How Ocean-Based Climate Solutions Contribute to Net Zero. This event was organized by the United States in the run-up to the Leaders Summit on Climate of US President Joe Biden. Fiji then announced its intention to join the Blue Leaders. I have therefore contacted Fiji again to thank them for this and to introduce them to reach more countries in Oceania together. I would also like to say that we recently organised the very first Blue Leaders Breakfast Club, another virtual meeting in which the Blue Leaders had a conversation with each other to discuss the next steps. I also indicated during my speech that I would like to make a joint statement in which we would like to emphasise the quality of future protected areas. It is in this way that the Blue Leaders distinguish themselves from other alliances: not protected areas on paper, but effective and qualitative protection. The famous Dr. Sylvia Earl, a world-famous American oceanographer, was also present and gave a presentation on the importance of protecting the high seas. Prince Albert II of Monaco also recorded a video to express his support for the initiative. We will also continue these Breakfast Clubs in the future. As far as your second question is concerned, it goes without saying that our country is also a Blue Leader within the European Union. I have already referred to my contact with the European Commissioner and with Frans Timmermans, but also with several European countries: Finland, Sweden and Austria, which have recently joined the Blue Leaders. We are also very active as a country in the preparation of the negotiations leading to the adoption of the BBNJ Treaty. This fourth intergovernmental conference has already been postponed several times by covid. That is why I have asked my administration to take initiatives to maintain momentum and not lose sight of the importance of the Treaty. We organize the so-called High Seas Treaty Dialogues in collaboration with the governments of Monaco, Costa Rica and some NGOs. These are online dialogues in which informal efforts are made to bring the different delegations closer together and to look for substantive interfaces. Each of these sessions is attended by one hundred to two hundred negotiators from more than 90 countries. For this effort, Belgium has received several positive feedback, both from the President of the Intergovernmental Conference, from Ambassador Lee from Singapore and from CARICOM, the Caribbean community at the United Nations General Assembly. Since covid is not over yet and the chance of a physical conference in August 2021 is decreasing, we are already considering a continuation of the High Seas Treaty Dialogues after August. In this way, the dossier will remain on the agenda and delegations will be able to prepare themselves optimally for the time when the conference can finally take place effectively. In addition to setting up marine protected areas, Belgium's ambitions are also high, and we are also trying to give substance to how these areas would be best managed. Belgium will continue to play an active leading role, both at the informal events as well as within the EU structures and the formal UN process.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the very detailed answer. Belgium does indeed play an important role in the protection of the ocean. You have given a very good and detailed overview of Belgium's range of action within the Blue Leaders alliance and the role of Belgium in the High Seas Treaty Dialogues. We will, of course, continue to follow up that dossier. The BBNJ agreement is of course very important, including for biodiversity worldwide.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u4	Mr Loones has indicated that he cannot be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u5	Mr President, honour who is due. It is Mr Loones who has tabled a bill concerning the possible delegation of federal powers over the North Sea to the Flemish government. Mr Minister, with the complex project Coastal Vision, the Flemish government wants to develop a long-term approach to protecting the Flemish coast against sea level increases. The alternatives to be examined are currently identified in an alternative research note. There will also be a public consultation. Through the marine spatial plan (MRP) 2020-2026, which regulates spatial planning at sea, the federal government is also indirectly or even directly involved in protecting the Flemish coast. I am thinking, for example, of the possible realisation of a multifunctional energy island in the Princess Elisabeth zone, especially now that the content of the federal recovery plan has been approved by the European Commission. Many Flemish administrations are also constantly involved in your policy, for example in the advisory committee provided for by the MRP. I'm not going to list them all, but there are a lot of Flemish administrations involved. We know, Minister, that the special law of August 1980 and the law of 8 August 1988 amending that special law have created a greater fragmentation of powers. I do not think you will deny that, because then you would deny reality. Minister, to what extent are the authorities of the federal government involved in the Flemish coastal protection projects of the Flemish government? Is the precise interaction, like this one in the context of the marine spatial plan, actually regulated by law or through a cooperation agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u6	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, you refer to the Flemish coastal protection projects. I would point out that the federal level also supports the importance of a safe and protected coastline and the dangers associated with global warming. In the context of the federal powers for the North Sea and the powers conferred on the Flemish Region, including in the field of coastal protection, good cooperation between the two levels is therefore essential. The preparations for the Flemish complex project Coastal Vision had already started for some time and there was always the necessary consultation between the federal and Flemish authorities. The marine spatial plan 2020-2026 has therefore anticipated this. Annex 3 to that plan lists the actions to which the federal government is committed. She is committed, among other things, to including the defence of the coastline as much as possible in the federal decision-making processes. Specific to the complex Coastal Vision project, Annex 3 also includes the commitment to provide the necessary space within the option chosen within this project if this option is, of course, located on federal territory. It also lays down the conditions to be met in order to clarify the federal level's expectations of Flemish coastal defence competence. For example, both an environmental permit and a building permit will have to be issued for a test island. The potential impact of the project on marine protected areas will have to be identified. I would like to point out that the advice of the Flemish Region was also requested when the marine spatial plan was drawn up. As you have already pointed out, Mr Ravyts, both the federal and the Flemish competent services are represented in the advisory committee which advises on the preliminary draft Marine Spatial Plan. Following initial approval by the Council of Ministers, this preliminary draft is adopted as a draft plan and is not only asked for the opinion of the citizens, but also for the opinion of each region individually. Consultations at this level are going well and smoothly. Conversely, my administrations are also involved in various routes started by the Flemish Region, including the complex project Coastal Vision. After all, my services have extensive knowledge of the North Sea and their expertise provides a not insignificant support for the project. They are on the policy committee that was launched in the framework of the complex project Coastal Vision. There was also regular consultation between my direct staff and that of Minister Peeters in Flanders on the dossier. I say 'was', because last month the Flemish Government decided to stop the application of the complex project procedure, apparently too complex, for the development of a long-term coastal protection strategy and to continue the development of a coastal vision through 'a tailor-made process approach'. Of course, we will also cooperate on this when asked. I mentioned the presence of the federal administrations in the policy committee complex project Coastal Vision, set up by the Flemish government. Under the structure of that complex project, the Flemish government, in addition to organising a public consultation, would also request targeted advice from the federal services concerned. As Minister for the North Sea, I will coordinate the development of this advice between the organisations concerned, in order to arrive at a supported opinion from the federal government. What will be the plan of action now that the structure of the complex project has been abandoned, we have not yet been informed. With regard to your second question, Mr Ravyts, I can say the following. Within the framework of the Marine Spatial Plan, the interaction, and hence the cooperation procedure, is laid down not in a cooperation agreement, but in the Royal Decree of 13 November 2012. In that KB the Flemish Region is invited to designate the Flemish members within the committee. Those Flemish representatives have the same voice as the federal members. The same Royal Decree also provides that the draft marine spatial plan is to be submitted to the regional governments for their opinion. So I can reassure you: the cooperation between the federal and Flemish services is going smoothly and efficiently and I will ensure that it continues to be so in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u7	Also for the federal colleagues it is sometimes interesting to see the crosspollination in the field between the various administrations, Flemish and federal. My question about the defence of the coastline seemed useful in that context. The complex project has indeed abandoned the procedure. We will see how the cooperation gets a start in the new Flemish procedure, and with that we will continue to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u8	Mr Minister, I have already discussed with you a number of times the Colruyt project on mussel, oyster and seaweed farming and the consumption and environmental permit for the sea farms, project zone C. In this respect, I have merely referred to your concerns about the implantation. I am, perhaps like you, very interested in the possibilities for a sustainable EU aquaculture in the Belgian context. The European Commissioner, Mr Sinkevicius, made a plea in mid-May 2021 to green the blue economy. Reference was also made to the desired encouragement of algae production as a more sustainable alternative to animal protein produced on land. There was also a communication from the European Commission on the strategic guidelines for a sustainable EU aquaculture for the next ten years, including reference to the European Farm to Fork Strategy. These include targets for aquaculture. Minister, we must not forget that 60% of European consumption of seafood and fish is being imported. Only 10% come from aquaculture in Europe. Will the evaluation of the marine spatial plan, as announced in your evaluation, take into account the application of a number of European strategic guidelines on aquaculture in the Belgian context? How do you see the role of the federal government in developing aspects of aquaculture in Belgian territorial waters? Of course, there are also Flemish powers in the field of aquaculture. In recent years, a Flemish North Sea Aquaculture project has been running, examining the opportunities for innovative breeding techniques.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u9	Mr Ravyts, as far as your first question is concerned, we are currently working on a revision of the marine environment law, the marine spatial plan of which is an implementing act. In accordance with the coalition agreement, an evaluation of the marine spatial plan will also be carried out, taking into account the guidelines cited in relation to aquaculture. In order to achieve a good and scientific environmental policy at sea, it is necessary to monitor closely all new developments taking place in and around the North Sea. My services are therefore familiar with both the results of the research projects and with European developments. For example, the current marine spatial plan 2020-2026 has already taken into account emerging sectors in the blue economy, such as aquaculture. You are right to say that the great distance from the wind farm to the coast was a considerable technical challenge. This was met in the marine spatial plan by setting up five zones for commercial and industrial activities close to the coast. In the meantime, in one of these zones, the necessary licence was issued to Codevco to grow mussels, seaweed and oysters. Furthermore, the possibility to roll out aquaculture in the first wind farm park zone was extended from two locations to the entire zone. Aquaculture and passive fishing are also possible in the Princess Elisabeth zone. In this case, the distance from the coast could be offset by economies of scale. On your second question, as regards the role of the federal government in the development of aquaculture, I can tell you that competence for aquaculture has been allocated to the regions. However, the territorial competence of the Flemish Region does not extend to sea areas, which gives the federal government the residual competence for marine aquaculture, both for the territorial sea and in the exclusive economic zone. Our role is therefore not limited to providing the necessary space; we are also competent to issue the necessary permits. In order to create a favourable environment in which offshore aquaculture can develop with clear and transparent regulation, we can encourage the private sector to develop such innovative projects. For example, we respond to the call made by the European Commissioner for the Environment, Oceans and Fisheries and Belgium can play an exemplary role in the greening of the blue economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for setting out the possibilities once again. Those possibilities will only increase. There is a real chance that offshore activities will increase, and aquaculture is likely to grow. That makes sense to me. We'll keep following up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u11	Mr President, Minister, Belgium intends to double the capacity of offshore by 2030 through the reservation of the Princess Elisabeth zone. The interest sector, the Belgian Offshore Platform of BOP, is already in favour of triple offshore capacity by 2030, which would cover a quarter of the total Belgian electricity consumption compared to 10% today. Offshore would then be the largest source of electricity production. A socio-economic study commissioned by the BOP could provide 10,000 additional jobs and a contribution of EUR 1.5 billion to GDP. This would also be good for significant CO2 savings. Tripling could also achieve the European targets for CO2 emissions. This requires additional areas in the North Sea and a review of the existing marine spatial plan. The current plan involves only the Princess Elisabeth zone, which allows the current capacity to be increased to 4.4 gigawattuur (GWh). The BOP wants to raise this to 6 GWh. That requires 200 to 300 square miles more, say a third zone. The MRP is already a patchwork. The question is whether additional space can be created. Minister, how do you respond to the BOP's plea? When is the revision of the Marine Spatial Plan 2020-2026 announced in the Policy Paper planned? Will this review also cover more offshore or is it not part of the scope? What are the possible orientations and perspectives for the revision in the light of offshore?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I would like to add my voice to Mr Ravyts' question, which has already outlined that in the coming years a windmill park will emerge in the Princess Elisabeth zone, which will double the wind energy potential to more than 4 gigawatts. In addition, the Belgian Offshore Platform looks forward. It had a socio-economic study carried out to strengthen its demand for a third offshore wind farm. According to this study, the third park could triple wind energy production, create 10,000 additional jobs and contribute EUR 1.5 billion to Belgium's GDP. The coalition agreement also proposes to examine whether additional capacity can be achieved. Last week we also learned that the Belgian Offshore Platform is also working with environmental associations that join in 4Sea. Natural point, Greenpeace and WWF, together with the investors and managers of the wind farms, endorsed a declaration of intent. They say that wind farms can be at sea and must be good for nature. However, they do formulate additional points of interest for this purpose. How did you analyse BOP's study? What elements do you take from that? What initiatives will you take to investigate the possibility of a third offshore wind farm? How do you assess BOP and 4Sea's declaration of intent in general? Do you agree that nature-inclusive designs should be the norm for the construction of new wind farms? What measures will you take to achieve this? Finally, the Memorandum of Understanding also contains an explicit demand for dialogue on the combination of improvement of natural value and renewable energy production in a circular narrative. Will you enter into this dialogue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to answer Mrs Buyst's first question. The results were recently explained by the Secretary-General of the Belgian Offshore Platform to the members of the cabinet of the Minister of Energy and the members of my cabinet. The following elements are important. More electricity from renewable energy leads to a higher CO2 reduction. Accelerated investments in offshore energy also have a positive macroeconomic impact. This study was prepared on demand and with the collaboration of the Belgian Offshore Platform, which also puts the beneficial results in a more subjective light. Mr Ravyts, renewable energy has immense advantages. We must make every effort to achieve this if we are to have some chance of combating global warming. However, as Minister for the North Sea, I am also responsible for the protection of the marine environment and I am therefore also asking myself where I should find this extra space in our little North Sea. My predecessor worked for two years on the revision of the Marine Spatial Plan (MRP) and the result balances the interests of the various sectors active at sea. The Princess Elisabeth zone is largely located in Natura 2000 and this extra space was the maximum that could be designated in 2019 without disrupting the achieved balance. Moreover, the text of the Marine Space Plan states that we must seek international cooperation to develop sustainable energy production at sea. In this context, the Minister responsible for Energy is examining a possible second interconnection with the United Kingdom or a first one with Denmark. The marine spatial plan further requires that alternative forms of renewable energy, such as wave energy or floating solar panels, should be used. A first pilot project on floating solar panels off the coast of Ostend will be launched this autumn. If this test project succeeds, the time is not far away to install such solar panels between the windmills in the renewable energy zones. I look forward to the first results with impatience. In this way, we hope to achieve additional renewable production capacity in our North Sea. My policy paper does not refer to a review of the MRP, but to an evaluation of it. After all, the marine spatial plan came into force only 15 months ago. A review of it at the moment would therefore be somewhat premature. This evaluation will focus on the procedures for drawing up and revising the Marine Spatial Plan. This exercise will be carried out in a broader context, namely that of the evaluation of the Marine Environment Act, the marine spatial plan of which is an implementing act. In terms of timing, we aim at the end of this year or early next year. This summer, the Regions will be consulted on the new draft of the Marine Environment Act. Then we go to the Council of Ministers, the Council of State and Parliament. Then I come to Mr Ravyts' third question. The possible orientations and perspectives of such an evaluation will be based on science. The Belgian part of the North Sea houses the largest nature reserve in our country. Scientific knowledge is needed to enable effective protection of habitats and species. This review will also focus on transparency and legal certainty. We need simple and clear rules. Then there is Mrs Buyst's second question. It will be clear to you by now that I will not immediately take initiatives to look for a third offshore zone in the North Sea. You will no doubt have noticed that the BOP advocates a third offshore area of 300 square kilometres. However, the BOP fails to indicate where that zone should be coloured. If you look at the map of the Belgian part of the North Sea, you can only see that there is only space left in the nature reserve of the Flemish Banks, where many other users of the North Sea are also active. As I said earlier, I am very fond of the idea of more renewable energy at sea or from the sea. I do wonder whether this additional production capacity cannot be achieved by focusing more on innovative techniques and interconnection with other countries. In any case, it is a thorough reflection exercise, which I will make with colleagues in the federal government. In your third question, Mrs Buyst, you ask me how I judge the declaration of intent. I'm judging it as very positive. I am pleased to note that, through dialogue, the parties to the BOP and the 4Sea are now able to reach common positions. That's not weird either. This dynamic has already started under the previous legislature. First, in the development of the long-term vision of the North Sea 2050, a multitude of parties were asked to reflect together on the future of our sea. Later on during the revision of the marine spatial plan, the North Sea Minister put both BOP and 4Sea around the table to determine the conditions under which a wind farm could be built in Natura 2000. Following this dialogue, it was decided to carry out no less than 24 studies, and in the meantime even 28 studies, in order to determine the best framework conditions for this. The content of the Memorandum of Understanding is therefore largely in line with the policy already in place to organise renewable energy together. Mrs Buyst, most of the Princess Elisabeth zone is located in Natura 2000. Only the smallest part of the zone is located outside the nature reserve. The aim has therefore always been to take into account the results of the nature studies in the terms of the tender procedure and the environmental permit for the construction of wind farms. We want to avoid the negative effects, to keep them as low as possible, and therefore to focus on a positive effect. For example, a restoration of gravel beds in the construction of a soil erosion layer or a specific shape can be prescribed for the foot of the windmill to reduce sand displacement through flows. The answer to your fifth question is obvious. I've given the message several times. Only through cooperation and dialogue can positive results be achieved. I will certainly continue to bet on this. Ms Dierick, the National Energy and Climate Plan approved by the Belgian Government, provides 4 gigawatts of offshore energy by 2030. It would be nice if we could generate more, but at the moment we are focusing on achieving the goals as quickly as possible. Or we can evolve to 6 gigawatts and in what way will be the subject of consultations within the federal government, of which Mrs Van der Straeten is a member. I do not quite understand what you mean by support and dialogue. There is regular consultation between the BOP, 4Sea and my staff. The BOP and 4Sea are also on the guidance committee on nature studies and can also provide the necessary input. This is, in fact, a continuous dialogue which is to everyone's satisfaction in a constructive atmosphere. Apart from this, I am, of course, prepared to see what support we can still offer to both organisations when they come up with concrete initiatives to strengthen biodiversity value in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u14	Minister, this was an important answer, since you are a little damper in the expectations of the BOP and are advocating a sense of reality in the area of additional areas in the territorial waters of that country. You clearly say that it will rather be the direction of international cooperation and interconnection, with innovative techniques such as wave energy and floating solar panels. You have once again clearly outlined the framework within which discussions are taking place on the installation of offshore sites in Natura 2000. That's what the Princess Elisabeth Zone is all about.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u15	Minister, we have ambitious climate targets to achieve and offshore wind energy is a crucial element in this. The BOP study shows that this sector offers an economic opportunity, but on the other hand we must also do what we can to achieve the natural goals and protect biodiversity. The great thing about this is that both hands can go hand in hand, which confirms this cooperation of 4Sea. Nature and climate organisations that have found each other before are now also working together with the Belgian Offshore Platform. You said it in your reply: dialogue and cooperation can lead to good results. This fine pooling of expertise also creates an opportunity for the government to get to work and develop the Princess Elisabethzone into a place that provides energy for families and also strengthens and protects life in the sea. It is important, however, that we continue to look forward to new opportunities for renewable energy such as offshore wind energy. After all, you know that the lead time of a new wind farm is several years. It is therefore important that this government not only looks at what is possible for this legislature, it should also consider what could possibly happen in the next few legislatures. To be continued, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u16	Minister, we all want more renewable energy at sea, but we also need to be realistic about finding the right location. I share your view that we need to focus on more innovation. We need to increase efficiency and keep our eyes open for new technologies. I look forward to the results of the project with the floating solar panels. Hopefully it will be appropriate to roll that out further. I am also pleased to hear that there is constant consultation and that you are also open to further support if they come forward with a concrete project. I look forward to the results of the pilot project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u17	Mr Loones has informed us that he cannot be present for this question either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u18	Mr President, once again there is a great deal of political interest in this subject. Mr Minister, on 25 June 2021 you announced that the federal government will go to court to stop the planned new wind farm near Dunkirk, with an impact on the West Flemish coast. You worked out an alternative proposal with a location that moves more north, with smaller, less high windmills, but the French stood firm. The developer's going through with it. At the same time, a complaint is lodged with the European Commission because France failed to consult Belgium at the start of the project. Belgium should have been formally and officially involved. That has not happened or is not enough. In the meantime, we also know that three coastal communities have initiated legal proceedings at the Lille Court and that the Flemish Government will join the federal proceedings. I do not know what that means, but perhaps as coordinator of the matter you can give some explanation. Can you explain more about the legal advice we have received and apparently lead to legal action and a complaint to the European Commission about compliance with the directives? What steps have you taken since 25 May 2021? Have you had any contact with the French network manager? On 25 May 2021, you stated that new consultations were still planned. Has there already been an official response from the developer to the Belgian position submitted during the public consultation? The decision published at the beginning of May included only general intentions. Do you have a look at the further French permit path? After all, challenging the decision after the public consultation may not stop the ongoing procedure. In the context of the licence application itself, a new publication will have to be organized. Will there still be political diplomatic consultations on this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u19	I don't see Mrs. Vindevoghel either. Then I give the floor to Mrs Dierick.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u20	Minister, the Belgian State is fighting a legal battle against the French government's plans for a windmill park in the sea near Dunkirk. The windmills would be just 10 kilometers from the seaside town of De Panne. In concrete terms, it is about 50 windmills of 300 meters high, which would be built 10 kilometers from the coast. Despite the many objections raised by Belgium, among others, the French government decided to continue the project together with the developer, EMD. You would have proposed to them an alternative, namely to build the wind farm 5 kilometres deeper into the sea. This would solve all the problems. Mr. Secretary, I have the following questions for you. How could this situation have gotten this far? What is the French government's position? What objections do they have to your proposal to build the wind farm 5 kilometres deeper into the sea? Can you explain what concrete steps the Belgian State has taken and will continue to take, both legally and diplomaticly? Has the Belgian State in the past offered to participate in this offshore windmill project, which will generate 600 megawatts, yet the energy of half a nuclear power plant? Is it an option that this purely French project becomes a free-for-all project? Can the European energy transition ever succeed if the members of the European Union, and the neighbouring countries, treat each other in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u21	Mr President, I will answer the questions raised by the Members present. First of all, Mr Dierick, the answer to your question why we are taking the developer, EMD, to court, and not the French state, is very simple. The decision of 10 May was taken by the developer and not by the French State. Indeed, on the basis of the results of the public consultation, EMD could also have decided not to continue the project. It wouldn't have taken a lawsuit. As far as the timing of the ruling is concerned, I cannot give a ready-made answer. Much will depend on the number of parties in this case, the judge's decision to merge the cases, etc. We certainly hope for a smooth course of justice, but that is not only in our hands. At best there will be a ruling within eight to nine months, at worst the case will drag on for a few years. I come to Mrs Daems' question on how this could have happened. I would like to refer to the answer I gave earlier in this committee. I would like to repeat briefly that the location was established in 2016 without our country being involved. Since then, we have made many efforts to make the French government and the developer realize that this location is not acceptable to our country. We have also always said that we would not hesitate to take legal action as soon as the need had been demonstrated and there was a questionable decision. This has been the case since 10 May 2021. I have also explained the position of the French authorities in the past. It wishes to consider the relocation only if it has 100 % assurance that the tender, the public contract, should not be placed on the market again and therefore there is no delay in the construction of the park. Any decision of a government may be challenged in a state of law. We cannot therefore give her 100% legal certainty. However, we have shown that the likelihood of a dispute and a delay is very low. In addition, there is an internal French directive, on which the prefet maritime bases itself to stop the relocation. This directive states that for every sea construction there must be five nautical miles, about ten kilometres, from a shipping route in order to ensure the safety of shipping. Moreover, this Directive states that wind farms must not be built in the vicinity of a shipping route. Let this be just what France does by planning the park right on the sailing routes between Ostend and the United Kingdom. The position of the French government is therefore rather cynical. As regards Mrs Daems' second question, the concrete steps we are going to take are the challenge of the decision of EMD and RTE of 10 May to continue building the park. Furthermore, a procedure will be initiated with the European Commission to fail France. My services and those of my colleague Wilmès are currently preparing this slope. Of course, I want to continue to work on a dialogue to find a solution. As regards Mrs Daems' third question, Belgium did not propose to join the French windmill project. We have always offered to make our expertise and study results available. The transfer of the park also allows for consideration of interconnection with the Princess Elisabeth zone. I am certainly prepared to think about a free-for-all project or a joint project, but this is not at the moment. Mrs Daems, I come to your fourth question. I am convinced that the European energy transition will succeed. After all, it is necessary to safeguard the future of the planet. Europe has already taken a huge number of initiatives to support the shift to renewable energy and investment against climate change. Think about the Green Deal. Of course, everything can be better. I therefore strongly believe in the dialogue that can be conducted within the North Seas Energy Cooperation (NSEC) in order to anticipate possible problems regarding locations for future wind farms. Mrs Dierick, at the moment no complaint has been made to the European Commission... on the Treaty... on the Functioning of the European Union. This is a complaint procedure in which the Commission has a year to decide whether or not to fail France. A second possibility is Article 259 of the Treaty. This is a direct complaint from one Member State to another, with the Commission having to take a decision within three months. If the Commission fails to take a decision in this case, we are free to go to the European Court of Justice ourselves. I myself am in favour of this latest short-term procedure, but the decision will be taken in consultation with Mr Wilmès. The proceedings brought before the court in Lille are not suspensive. In itself, therefore, EMD can continue to develop the project. Currently, the company mainly carries out study work to prepare the application for the environmental permit and domain concession. It is not the case that there are already work in progress that should be shut down. Mr Ravyts, the decision to take legal action was taken on the basis of advice provided by both the French law firm we have appointed and our own legal services. The main reason why we appeal against the decision of EMD and RTE is the following. Under French law, we must use every decision to make it clear that we were not consulted on the location of the zone in 2016. If we were to fail to challenge the decision now, we would no longer be able to invoke that argument in the further procedure. In fact, the step towards European default is simpler. France has mistransformed the European directive into an internal regulation and is therefore making a mistake. That is a mistake we are making at European level. As far as your second question is concerned, Mr Ravyts, my colleagues have indeed consulted with EMD. These contacts clearly showed that they too (...) and are bored with the situation (...) the task of building the wind farm.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u22	However, they did not have a say in the choice of that zone, which was already committed three years ago. I can say that EMD appreciated that we had a conversation with them, so that EMD heard firsthand what arguments we have put forward against the French authorities. EMD is currently studying that information and will come back to us after the summer holidays for further consultation. Mr Ravyts, I have still not received an official reply to the position we submitted in the French public consultation. I do not expect that either, because EMD replied in general terms to all the comments made together. As far as the further licensing process is concerned, I can be brief. At present, EMD carries out the necessary studies and studies for the purpose of applying for an environmental permit. In this context, a survey publication will indeed be organised, probably in autumn 2022. It is only at that time, as the French regulations provide, that neighbouring countries must be involved. However, both EMD and the French authorities are already aware that I will also organise a public consultation on our territory, as we did in December 2020 for the first round. On your last question, I can confirm that we will, of course, continue to work on consultation at all levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u23	Minister, you were not quite clear at the moment, but I think the essence has come through.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u24	Minister, there are many substantive aspects to the procedure that has now started in Lille. We can use your answer to ask the necessary questions about the European directives and procedure, if necessary also to Minister Wilmès. I am pleased that the dossier, which is likely to have a major impact on the west coast of my province, is taken seriously. It is also important that you remind the developer of the exact location chosen by the French government. I still hope that the dossier will evolve in the right direction, despite the legal procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u25	Minister, it is very distressing that there is still so little dialogue, despite the raging attempts at different echelons in our country. So we have to go on the legal tour. I am pleased that all possible slopes are being looked at: a complaint against the developer, but also against the French state. I understand that there are two different procedures and that they are being prepared, but the knot still needs to be made with Minister Wilmès. I hope that this will be looked at in the coming days, but above all I still hope that it will not have to come to that and that there will still be a willingness to engage in dialogue so that the dossier is still moving in the right direction. However, it is a dossier that we must look at with a magnifying glass, because it has very adverse consequences for our country. So we have to do everything we can to change things. Finally, I hope that we will have regular feedback on the state of play in the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u26	Mr Minister, we agree that the French wind farm is too close to the coast and that this may cause problems with existing waterways and trails of migratory birds. But we also believe that it should not be the intention for neighbouring countries to start litigation against each other and to fight each other instead of working together. We believe that more European cooperation and coordination are needed. There must be a planned approach at European level to the development of energy in the North Sea. This shows the failure of the current approach. If each country is going to do its own thing in the North Sea, we're not going to get there. We therefore call for a European energy consortium responsible for the development of offshore wind energy in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u27	Minister, the island state of Nauru decided to activate Article 15 of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, the two year rule. This means that in two years' time she wants to allow the Canadian multinational GreenDeep to start commercial deep-sea mining, even though the international regulatory framework, the so-called mining code, has not yet been completed. This means that a multinational without rules will operate the deep sea, which is totally unacceptable. I have raised the issue before, because deep-sea mining is a devastating industry that risks irreparable damage to the deep-sea ecosystem. We therefore asked for a moratorium, a temporary ban, on commercial deep-sea mining. Recently 420 scientists and experts from 44 different countries called for a moratorium on deep-sea mining. The government did not want to go into this so far, but recently Parliament adopted a resolution calling for the precautionary principle to continue to be applied at all times. What do you think of Nauru's decision to activate the two year rule? What happens if the mining code is not completed within two years and the multinational DeepGreen moves into commercial deep-sea mining? What steps will you take to ensure that the precautionary principle is respected? Will you, at least pending the completion of the international regulatory framework, call for a moratorium on commercial deep-sea mining?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u28	Minister, we have learned that Nauru has operated the two year rule with ISA under pressure from DeepGreen. This is therefore article 15 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. This two-year rule requires that negotiations within ISA on a framework for mining, i.e. the mining code, be completed within two years, otherwise it would be forced to allow mining within the current framework, i.e. without a framework. This is very worrying, at least for us. This Nauru decision, no doubt taken at the request of DeepGreen, raises concerns that other companies will follow this strategy when their operating contracts come to an end, which further increases our concern. We know the fragility of marine ecosystems and the urgent need to protect the health of our oceans for our climate and our ecosystems in general. That is why, at the end of June, 350 scientists from 44 countries signed a petition calling for a moratorium on deep-water mining. Minister, what risks do you identify as a result of Nauru's decision? What is the status of the ISA negotiations? Are binding rules on the table to ensure the protection of marine biodiversity? What role does Belgium currently play in these negotiations? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u29	As far as Mrs Daems' first question is concerned, I took note of the decision of the island state of Nauru with mixed feelings last week. Naura says that the mining code has been being worked on for seven years and that it is almost ready. I don't understand the need to call in some sort of nuclear option right now. Nauru also refers to climate warming and the fact that the country as an island state will be one of the first victims of sea level rises. It argues that the exploitation of the deep sea and the metals that can be extracted from it can be part of the solution. These may be valid arguments, but I do not feel that they are sufficient to work out the operating rules under time pressure. I do, of course, support the development of a mining code at international level, so that a clear framework and a level playing field can be established for all Member States. On Mrs Daems' second question, the precise consequences of the action are not yet fully clear. Normally, as a result of Nauru's request, the International Seabed Authority should adopt the necessary rules within two years. If this is not done in time, the board of that authority will have to consider an application for operation and possibly adopt it on the basis of existing international rules at that time. At the moment, the relevant services of our country, in particular the Marine Environment Service, the Continental Plat Service, the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences, DG Shipping and the Foreign Affairs Services, are working closely together to identify all possible consequences and to list what steps we can take as Belgium. After all, the two-year deadline will expire in 2023, the year that our country will be on the board of the International Seabed Authority. As far as the third question is concerned, I will, together with colleagues from the Economics, Science and Foreign Affairs, examine, on the basis of the analysis currently being carried out, what further steps are possible and desirable. As Minister responsible for the marine environment, I have repeatedly confirmed in committee that I will include some basic principles in the new Belgian legislation. Belgium will also be fully committed to achieving the highest possible environmental standards in the International Seabed Authority's Board, and will argue that the precautionary principle should be central to the further development of rules for deep-sea mining. The fourth question concerns the moratorium. I would, of course, like to refer to the resolution adopted in committee and Parliament on 19 January 2021. In doing so, the federal government, and therefore myself, was asked to continue to support fundamental research and data collection in order to gain more knowledge about the deep sea, and to continue to respect environmental legislation and the precautionary principle in order to safeguard biodiversity when drawing up possible operating rules on deep-sea mining. If Mr Daems asks for a ban on commercial deep-sea mining, I would point out that such a moratorium already exists in the facts, as commercial exploitation of the deep-sea is not possible to date due to a lack of legal framework. Mrs de Laveleye, with regard to your first question, negotiations within ISA are under way. A first public consultation on standards and guidelines was completed on July 3. The standards will determine how the environmental impact assessment should be conducted and are binding. The guidelines provide additional or additional information. The results of this consultation will be the subject of further discussion within the International Seabed Authority. The exact schedule is not yet known. We know that two public consultations will follow on other standards and guidelines. In a later phase, the operating rules will be discussed and laid down. With regard to your second question, Belgium is working for high environmental standards at both national and international level. For the time being, the regulations are being developed. With regard to your last question, Belgium does not sit as an effective member of the Council of the International Seabed Authority for the time being, but our country has an observer role. In this way, we can already make our views known. As a sponsor state fully engaged in scientific research, we are already being listened to. Finally, we will also sit as an effective member of the Council as early as 2023 and our voice will of course have even more weight.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It cannot, of course, be the intention that, by the decision of Nauru, we should quickly come up with a weak regulatory framework to ensure that there is a mining code at all, before DeepGreen starts with commercial deep-sea mining. A weak mining code may be worse than no mining code. What Belgium should do is to support the call for a moratorium. We are now faced with the situation that a first multinational will not play by the rules, of course, which still have to be developed. This makes the establishment of a moratorium against deep-sea mining a much more urgent matter. Mr. Secretary, what you're saying is wrong. As a result of the activation of Article 15, there is in fact no moratorium. DeepGreen can start commercial deep-sea mining in two years' time, even if there is no mining code. If you take the precautionary principle seriously, make sure that companies cannot start commercial deep-sea mining before all risks are clear. That's impossible without a mining code. I therefore ask you to change your position and support an international moratorium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic540x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that you are not very enthusiastic about Nauru's unilateral decision, that you do not understand the timing of the decision, and that you trust international negotiations to achieve a mining framework. And that's so much better. However, I must point out that, unfortunately, a bad mining code is not an option. By their decision, they put us in the difficult situation of having to succeed at all costs, and probably with a code that would not match the climate and environmental challenges. I understand, of course, that Belgium does not sit effectively. But as you said, we are a sponsor state. Now that DeepGreen has obtained this kind of quick negotiation, or rather a knife under the throat, my concern is that other companies, including DEME, do the same when it's their turn. At that time, as a sponsoring state, Belgium will have to be able to say, "No, we don't play this game when it's our turn to play." I trust you, I trust our government to be very ambitious in the negotiations. When I say "very ambitious", we must continue today more than ever to listen to scientists calling for a moratorium. If the moratorium is not the line that will ultimately be supported, there must in any case be binding standards, not just guidelines, to protect biodiversity in the future marine code. I think it'll be your line. In any case, we encourage you to do so, and we encourage you to read carefully the petition signed by 350 scientists.
