ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u2	For the oral questions, speaking time is limited to two minutes for the questions, two minutes for the reply of the member of the Government, and one minute for the reply of the questioner. Colleagues, at the beginning of the year, we always make good resolutions. I will stick today to the decision of the Conference of Presidents that, for the attached questions, if three or more questions are asked on the same subject, the member of the government has no more than five minutes to answer. If three or more questions are asked on the same subject to several members of the government, each member of the government has a maximum of five minutes to answer. The procedure had been evaluated after three months of operation and validated. I will therefore stick to that decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u3	Madam President, Prime Minister, after the terrible second wave we have seen, the Belgians' efforts have led to a very, very significant decrease in the number of patients in hospital, and that is so much better! But today, several signals must alert us and even worry. The number of contaminations is rising again, but there are also extremely contagious strains in Belgium. It is therefore, Mr Prime Minister, a real race against time that must commit itself to ensure that these mutant covid-19 strains do not become dominant strains in Belgium. It is therefore necessary to vaccinate even more urgently than is currently the case to protect as many vulnerable people as possible, as quickly as possible. In this regard, each dose of vaccine received should be administered as quickly as possible. I would like to hear from you about this, because this is clearly not the case today. Besides vaccination, it is also important to detect all positive covids, mutations, trace them and also strictly isolate people to protect others. Is it not necessary today to expand our genomic sequencing capabilities? Several laboratories are ready and would be ready. Is it not necessary to test much more massively to track the virus in every corner, including mutations? Is it not necessary to strengthen the tracing capabilities but also to ensure strict isolation of each positive person while accompanying them? The issue of border closure, which is clearly on the government table, also arises, Prime Minister. Non-essential travel is strongly discouraged, but at the same time, measures are not clear to the public. What we are asking you today is clarity. Indeed, either the borders remain open and, therefore, an effective system must be ensured in order to effectively track all covid-19 and even more the mutants upon return, or we leave the borders closed (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u4	Mrs Fonck, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u5	Madam President, Prime Minister, today we are in a paradoxical and therefore dangerous situation. Yes, that's right, the numbers still seem to be under control. Yes, we have moved from almost the worst student in the class to a good student at European level. We must be able to say this and thank the citizens who have been very involved in this effort. However, everywhere around us, fire threatens. Britain and Ireland are in a critical situation. The famous variants are now reported almost everywhere, including in Belgium, including people who have not travelled. So we are at a crossroads of uncertainties because, at the moment we are talking, very clever who can say whether we are facing a real prospect of relaxation or facing a real third wave. Both are possible and that's the whole problem. What I know, on the other hand, and what I remember about crisis management in our country for a year now, is that unfortunately we in Belgium have a rare ability to think that we are on an isolated island. Some people once thought, a year ago, that the virus would not reach us or soon upon the return of the carnival holidays, while it was already wreaking havoc in Italy. Others, in October, may have underestimated the possibility of a second wave. But every time, not only did reality catch up with us, but when it did, it did so in a very hard way only for the other countries. In this regard, your current communication is not entirely clear. Okay, we're walking on the ice, but that's no reason not to have a direction. So my question is simple, Prime Minister. Are we ready? Of course, we are ready to reopen hairdressers and contact jobs. We get it. Your friends at the MR remind him almost every day now, even if they play with false hopes as with matches and as if the other parties too did not want to reopen everything as soon as possible, even tomorrow if possible. So we're ready for the best and the good news, if any. All right! But are we ready for the worst, we who in general are so little? Are we prepared to ban non-essential travel rather than simply advise against it? Are we ready to track down the most dangerous variants with even more vigilance? Will you have the courage to give a clear and univocal message in these times more uncertain than ever?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u6	Prime Minister, in two months' time, our entire globe will be under the spell of the coronavirus for exactly one year. For ten months we have been living with restrictions, restricting our contacts and must be careful. Everyone's tired. Everyone's sick of it. A lot of civilians are very deep. The catering and events sector, the contact professions, students with big dreams, you name it, the reality is hard for everyone. The measures were extended at the beginning of this week. However much these measures run counter to what we want and what we used to be before the corona crisis, they remain necessary to guarantee our care and protect our caregivers. An expected and rather technical intervention led to a lot of criticism. I understand that one. March 1 seems to be an eternity away, but March 1 is not an absolute turning point. It's not a date we have to chisel in stone. You have immediately informed us that there will be a new meeting of the Consultative Committee next week. As always, the situation is closely monitored on a daily basis. The criticism earlier this week underlined in particular that our citizens and businesses have only one wish: a perspective. What brings the near future? It is virtually impossible to answer that, Prime Minister, especially when dangerous variants are emerging all over the world, including in our country. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we must remain absolutely optimistic, especially when we have been getting positive news over the last few days about vaccination, its timing and the possibilities we have. Prime Minister, what perspective can you offer the citizens of our country? Can you confirm that the government will continue to support the entrepreneurs for whom uncertainty is debilitating every day through these difficult times?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, we have received a great deal of good news over the last few days. There was good news about accelerating the production of vaccines. There was also good news about deliveries, which take place faster than we initially expected. Together with the Minister for Health, I made a call last week to increase the rate of vaccination. It is good to see that action has been taken everywhere in our country, especially with the commitment of our cities and our communities, of people on the ground, to prepare us to vaccinate a wide audience at very high speed. It is very encouraging to see how we are getting ready for the large doses of vaccine we are going to get. We hope that with the registration of AstraZeneca and possibly soon that of Johnson & Johnson, we will have access to very large volumes of vaccines in the coming weeks. I do not need to repeat it: there is cooperation between the different governments in our country. Federally, we are ensuring that there are enough vaccines and that they reach the vaccination centres or residential care centres as they are today, while the Länder are fully organising the administration of the vaccines. The cooperation is going well, just as it went well in other areas, for example when we had to get the second wave under control. This week, a lot of questions were asked about the Ministerial Order. I would like to take this opportunity to clarify some aspects. Last week's Consultation Committee was an evaluation moment. We decided to keep the measures in force, except for a small exception: car schools and examination centres. In addition, it has been found that it was too early to make an overall assessment and to decide on certain professions. However, I would like to be very clear about a number of dates on which decisions have been taken. We want to be very clear about the date for international travel. Until then, therefore, the crocus holiday will continue to apply the rules that apply today to international travel. They're highly unwelcome. Those who do so must be tested on days 1 and 7 if they return from a red zone. That person must also respect the quarantine. We want to be clear about this. Those rules apply until after the crocus vacation. Who would consider travelling during the crocus holiday, we would like to point out that the rules will apply until after that holiday. Let me be clear, too. It is strongly advised not to travel internationally. Another moment we have discussed has resulted in a kind of clause de rendezvous, namely 22 January 2021, in order to be able to evaluate measures currently in force in certain sectors, for example for non-medical contact professions. That's the deal. The ministerial decision is a translation of those agreements. I understand that many people are asking for a perspective and a clear target date. We must dare to admit that today's reality makes this impossible. It is impossible to give today a date on which this will happen, especially in view of the current concern about the B1.1.7 variant. The only thing we can guarantee is that we carry out the evaluation on a daily basis and that we ask ourselves on a daily basis whether we should keep to the strict measures that are in force today. You can be sure that we will not keep these very strict measures for a day, because you can also expect us to be particularly careful. As far as the variant is concerned, it shows that we are faced with new situations each time, whether in our country or in other countries. As you said, we do not live on an island in Belgium. In relation to cross-border travel, I think we are very clear. We have very strict rules. At the regional level, quarantine control is now being carried out in a pronounced manner. I think that's a good thing. We also asked our expert group to assess and consider whether further action is needed. We are awaiting this report in the near future. I would like to emphasise one last element. Keeping the general rules away, not visiting each other unnecessarily, wearing a mouth mask, washing hands, which have brought us so far, are still the best measures in relation to the new variant. If you want to avoid contamination of the classic variant or the B1.1.7 variant, the same measures apply. It has to be clear. Travelling abroad is highly inadvisable. I cannot understand that it is not clear: when it is said that it is strongly discouraged, it seems clear to me! Mr Pillen, there are many support measures for companies. The extension of the double right of bridging for self-employed workers until the end of February is on the table of the Council of Ministers tomorrow. An agreement has already been reached in the nuclear cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u8	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. If I were you, I wouldn't dare talk about speeding up vaccination. Just compare us to other countries. The conclusion is then drawn very quickly. It is true that you are trying to catch up, but let me tell you that this will not be enough. For example, do you find it normal that tens of thousands of doses of vaccines are still in the freezers? No, it's not normal. You have to administer them as quickly as you get them, to protect every person. Beyond words, we expect you to act, and much more efficiency and agility. In terms of variants, are these the same measures? Yes. But there is probably a need to strengthen the genomic sequencing policy in our country, with more laboratories. These are ready. Moreover, we are constantly running behind the virus. A real offensive strategy is needed to ensure that these mutant strains are not dominant tomorrow in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u9	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Most of all, you answered about vaccination. Let us be very careful: we all welcome the upsurge and acceleration, at all levels of power, which have taken place since last week - under pressure from the healthcare staff and the federal opposition, we must say. But indeed, the good news is coming to us regarding the acceleration of deliveries. But in Britain, too, they have had vaccination, and for much longer than we have, and they are still in a critical situation. So we're going into this race against the clock with a certain delay, and I'm worried. I am also concerned when, with regard to foreign travel, you tell us that "lively not recommended" is sufficiently clear. I am not so sure; the expression was already used during the Christmas holidays, and tens of thousands of people still felt free to leave. This gave the scenes of crowds and fuss that we saw during the checks on the return, at the airports and at the stations. I fear that if the situation, unfortunately, worsens and if, to be clear, increases in hospitalizations appear, it is necessary to have a language that is clearer than "alively not recommended".
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u10	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the answer. Policy while conditions change every day is particularly difficult, but the government does it. You were right to praise your colleagues from the Länder. You were also right to praise all the mayors and ships that are currently working very hard in the cities and municipalities to roll out the vaccination strategy. With vigorous actions, we have been able to improve the original vaccination timeline effectively. The message that we will continue to support our entrepreneurs was very clear. Thank you for that. Hopefully we can get back to normal life very quickly, and everyone in Parliament is hoping for that. We must not stop the harsh restrictions one day too early, because that would be irresponsible, but it is even more important that we do not keep them for too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u11	Prime Minister, I am standing here on an important matter, a matter which should concern us all: freedom of expression. That's not a left-wing matter, it's not a right-wing matter. Freedom of expression You agree that is a fundamental right, but it is under pressure. It is not up to the government, to political opponents, to impose rules on what one may or may not say. We do not need a Ministry of Truth that is supposed to fight fake news, but it is not up to multinationals, big tech to censor politicians, journalists, cartoonists. It's not gonna stop there. Even ordinary people who throw a family photo with Sinterklaas and Black Piet on Facebook fly thirty days in the Facebook prison. Mr Prime Minister, it is a horrific development that political opponents are going to judge what one may or may not say, that multinationals are going to judge big tech what one may or may not say. Call me old-fashioned, but the norm "the only standard "the Constitution" must be. That is the best guarantee for our freedoms. If big tech, like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube, does not want to respect our Constitution, then we must take action, as is happening today in Poland. There we are making an anticensorship law, because Poland knows, like no other country, what it is to live under a dictatorship. That is why my party will table its own anti-censorship bill. Are you, Prime Minister, as a liberal, prepared to support such a proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u12	Madam President, Mr Van Grieken, there are recent developments which are indeed problematic. A Twitter ban for life is problematic. Freedom of expression is one of the many fundamental rights enshrined in our Constitution, which were characteristic of a constitution that was ahead of its time when it entered into force. Our country has a long history of housing people who had an opinion that was not tolerated in other countries. The challenge for us will be to ensure that these fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression, continue to apply offline, but also online. There must be a legal framework for this. They're taking care of that. At European level, there is the Digital Markets Act and the Digital Services Act. It goes to the European Parliament, where there will be extensive discussion, and then to the European Council. In that European Council, I see supporters, like Mrs Merkel, who has also said very clearly that some of the things we see today go far too far. Let me be clear: a political and social debate must be open to sharp opinions and contradictions, because certain rules that apply offline must also apply online. Calling for violence can't be, calling for racial hatred can't be. I think we can agree on that. We need to ensure that people who break the rules can be prosecuted for cases that are clearly crimes, but it is not up to a CEO of a private company, which then has a monopoly, to make a final judgment on what may appear online and what may not. Only a judge can decide that. That is the case in our country, and it must remain so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u13	Mr Prime Minister, thank you for your reply and I am glad that after seven days you have come to the understanding that it is not up to multinationals to silence elected politicians. I really didn't understand you, Prime Minister. You cheered, as a liberal, when a volunteer organisation like Mothers was condemned for refusing help to some people because of their religious opinion. You cheer, as a liberal, when an employer is condemned for hiring the one he wants. You, as a liberal, applaud the conviction of a landlord who chooses who to rent out. However, you kept silent for seven days when a multinational politicians, journalists and cartoonists discriminated against. I'm glad you're making that turn now. People who now pretend to protect democracy by restricting freedom of expression must be aware that without freedom of expression there is no democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u14	Mr Prime Minister, last week we expressed our concern about the rule of law in the United States, and rightly so. However, I am also concerned about the rule of law in our country. I hope I won't be alone with that. Indeed, it is strong that today people are being removed from social media without judgment. You should have brought that up quickly and vigorously. But that's not enough. I am a little concerned when you refer to the European Digital Services Act, which will just force media platforms to act proactively without the intervention of the judge, who will only be able to judge afterwards. That is, of course, against our Constitution, which already makes censorship impossible. I can assume that, as you said last week, the Constitution is your measure and that you will therefore fight this Digital Services Act on this point. I'd like you to confirm that in a moment. No prior censorship. No, judges don't intervene afterwards. They are the ones who must first assess any illegal use. Then I'll have to talk about the corona measures, too. There is suddenly a ministerial decision that the Minister says: I did not think that people would trip over it. Neither did I, because it just wasn't announced. That was 48 hours after a minister said that the realm of freedom would be on the doorstep again. Another example, remember that when the turkey was already in the oven people were suddenly told that twelve-year-olds would be counted for the Christmas party. These are a few examples of careless behavior. In the Netherlands there is talk about curfew. This is happening in Parliament, Prime Minister, where it belongs. Yesterday we heard from the Minister of Justice that they are working on a pandemic law. They've been working on that for months. But it wouldn't apply to this corona crisis. Now there are only two possibilities, and hence my question. Either that pandemic law is needed, and then she's needed today. Either it is superfluous, and then we won't need it tomorrow. Would you like to shed some light on this, because the Minister of Justice has created uncertainty about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u15	Madam President, Prime Minister, the Corona approach has no legal basis in Belgium, unlike in other countries. In order to be able to restrict fundamental freedoms for a long time and drastically, we are going back to a law of 2007, which was actually intended to deal with temporary disasters such as fires and explosions. The extension of the limitation of those fundamental freedoms is even trying to do so in secret, without any communication. This government decides to issue a ministerial decision to extend these measures until 1 March, but no minister feels it is worth informing the citizens. So, Prime Minister, my first question to you is: why did this government keep quiet about the extension that was decided upon? I would like to hear from you a statement other than that of the Minister of the Interior, who claims that ministerial decisions on corona always have a validity of about six weeks, which is simply not true: the facts are very easy to contradict. She also mentioned this extension as technical and a matter of foresight. In imposing restrictions on people you are far-sighted, but you would have been more forward-looking when it comes to mouth masks or vaccinations. Nor is it forward-looking, Prime Minister, that after 11 months there is still no pandemic law. The impact tax is done much faster! The pandemic law was announced in the meantime, but before we have seen one letter of the draft, your Minister of Justice states that it is not the intention at all to use it during this corona crisis. Will you whistle back Minister Van Quickenborne, Prime Minister, or do you agree that this pandemic law is for a future crisis and that all these far-reaching measures can easily continue to be unconstitutional? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u16	Thank you for the questions that were largely answered for both of them in the previous issues that I have dealt with. I will discuss the legal basis in detail, and I will deal with the new questions in the end. It is clear that we live in exceptional circumstances. Exceptional measures shall also be used in exceptional circumstances. The government relies on two pillars for the measures taken. The first is the Civil Security Act of 2007. This law allows the government to take measures to protect the public, including in the field of public health. The second pillar is the law on police service of 1992. This law empowers the Minister to maintain public order in situations of general interest, if required by the general interest and if the entire territory is involved. We use these two pillars for the ministerial decision, for legislation in line with the framework of the Constitution. The measures are very drastic. I agree. They are very far-reaching measures on the freedoms that we all have. I didn't go into politics to decide how many people you can have at home. I didn't go into politics to tell self-employed people to close their cases. I did go into politics to take the necessary measures. The transformation over the past eight weeks, of a situation in which public health was in great danger and the entire health system was on its way, shows that the measures are proportionate and have an effect. Let's use that as a measure. If there had been measures that had no effect, I could accept criticism. However, these measures have shown that they protect the health of our citizens. That's what a government can be expected to do. We are doing everything we can to protect citizens' health, and that is why we have taken these measures. I want to be clear, too. There is always room for debate in Parliament. Moments like this, moments in committee exist for that. Everyone also has the opportunity to check the measures we take against the Constitution or higher standards. Many have done the same. Many cases were submitted to the Council of State. The Council of State has ruled on several occasions and has sometimes whistled us back. With regard to the services of honour, the Council of State has said that we went too far. We have adapted the ministerial decision accordingly. This is how a rule of law works. We base ourselves on two legal bases. We are open to a political debate and we are listening to what the courts have to say about the measures we have adopted. The government is also sensitive to a debate. Some say that drastic measures such as these should have a broader legal basis. I'm sensitive to that debate. Times change. We are now faced with a very exceptional situation. However, we must ensure that we do not undermine the stability of the current measures, which have a legal basis and have been reviewed several times by the Council of State and have been found proportionate, in an effort to create a new legal basis and thereby put people's health at risk. These concerns are shared by ministers in this government. In the evaluation that is being carried out, new pillars for the legal base are needed. We will, of course, look at the Constitution and other rules, but we must also ensure that we do not destroy the legal basis that saved us from a medical catastrophe at a delicate moment like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u17	Mr Prime Minister, I am concerned by your statement that we should, above all, consider whether a measure works rather than whether that measure is legally in order. You say that your hope is for a European Digital Services Act, but it goes against our Constitution and against the ban on censorship and acts against the person who places the illegal content, but not against the person who places the content. I do not find that reassuring at all. I hope that we will be able to debate this in depth in Parliament, because you are going the wrong way now. Allow me to quote: "If the rule of law stagnates here, then it will not be by a mob storming the Palace of the Nation in the Rue de la Loi. Here it will happen accidentally, with one sentence, hidden in the Belgian Official Journal, and raging, while a large part of the population is watching shoulder-picking." That is not a quote from an opposition member, but from a journalist who is in your hug bubble, a journalist who supports your government, but who is now attacking you because of the carelessness with which you operate. If I were in your shoes, I would start to be particularly concerned from that point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u18	Mr Prime Minister, you did not answer my question about a total lack of communication regarding the decision on the extension. The course of events has been unconstitutional for 11 months. That's not a legal prank. You say you have to listen to the courts. Well, judges in this country cite the unconstitutional nature of your corona measures as a motivation to dismiss criminal proceedings against offenders. Do you really think that this will help to ensure compliance with the measures, Prime Minister? You're shaking no now, but you're gonna have to read what a judge in Charleroi decided in October. Exceptional situations do indeed require exceptional measures, but in a rule of law this must be done properly. All the rest of your answer was to say it with the winged words of Gwendolyn Rutten, blah, blah.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u19	Madam Chair, Minister, one might think that my question is very relevant. In fact, it is tragically daily for many citizens, for many families who, for months, have had as their only resource, because of the obligation to shut down their business, only temporary unemployment of crisis which has been revised to 70%. In exceptional circumstances, with such an income, one can last a few weeks, perhaps one, two or three months. But for some, we will soon be celebrating the first anniversary, in other words a year, under this regime. It is extremely complicated for many families to have only 70 per cent of their usual income as a resource, and the situation is even more difficult when one is a single parent family, when one is a single woman or man with several children, with proportionately larger and larger costs, which are not taken into account when allocating the amount of temporary unemployment. There are also extremely humane SME bosses who contacted me to let me know that they had made it a point of honour, from the beginning of the crisis, to grant the additional 30% so that their staff would not be affected by the choices and decisions relating to the cessation of their business. They were able to do so for two, three or even four months, but today, given the prolongation of their activity, they are no longer able to disburse these 30%. These bosses are making ink blood for the families concerned, and they feel that they are personally helping to weaken them a second time. The prolongation of the crisis and the closure measures must be accompanied by an increase in financial aid for the affected families. Minister, in the package of measures to be taken (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u20	Mr Prévot, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u21	Madam President, honourable Member, I thank you for your question, which is indeed a burning issue for a number of people in our country. You recalled this, since the beginning of the crisis, the previous government and the majority in which you participated in the expanded Kern, Kern +10, had decided to increase temporary unemployment benefits in the context of this Corona crisis from 65 to 70% with a supplement of 5.63 euros per day of temporary unemployment. The current government, given the length of the crisis and its impact on the population, has decided to take complementary measures, in particular to help those most affected by the crisis, especially workers who have experienced and are still experiencing large and long periods of temporary unemployment. First of all, it has extended to all companies and therefore to all their workers the possibility of seeking temporary unemployment corona. Then, as you know, the government decided on 6 November last, with an implementation before the end of 2020, to liquidate a protective premium for workers who have experienced long periods of temporary unemployment: 10 euros per day of temporary unemployment beyond the 52nd day with a minimum lump sum of 150 euros but which can go beyond 1 500 to 1 800 euros for workers who have experienced large periods of unemployment. One could also recall the funding of the Social Fund horeca to allow the payment of year-end premiums for workers in the sector. Finally, a last measure recently decided is the guarantee of a full daily supplement of 5.63 euros for part-time workers who, in our country, are mostly women or single-parent families which at more than 95 % consist of single women with children. This is the last step taken by the government to support and defend the purchasing power of those who are most affected by this crisis. I will, of course, remain attentive to the continuation and continuation of measures to ensure that these pressing needs are met. Other measures are currently under discussion within the government. I will be concerned about the fate of those who are particularly affected by this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u22	Minister, thank you for this statement of all the measures that have already been taken. It is an advertising page that is always timely to be able to recall what the government has been able to do. But that wasn't my question. My question was not about questioning what was done. In my question, I told you that notwithstanding these measures, this remains for many families insufficient. I urge you, since you say that you want to be attentive to this issue, to ensure that the government, in the coming days and weeks, can take further steps to pull up the amount of this temporary crisis unemployment, and perhaps provide corrective mechanisms when there are additional difficulties such as a single-parent family situation or having a dependent child or parent with a disability. We know that these are situations that need a stronger response from your government. You'd do good to many families who need it a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u23	Madam President, Minister, the social partners will soon be negotiating wage increases in our country over the next two years. Today, the Central Council for Business announced the maximum wage margin. Do I understand correctly, Minister? It would be 0.4% increase in wages in two years. Do you realize how small that impact will be? Rack fillers or cashiers at Colruyt already have low wages and Colruyt does not seem to me to be a company that has abandoned in this corona crisis. Those workers have a low wage and may then negotiate a maximum storage of....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Do you know how much that's effective? That's two coffees a month for the working class, for the people who stood in the line of fire during this corona crisis. If we were to increase staff wages at Colruyt by 5%, it would still be only one third of the dividend paid to shareholders in 2020. So that 5% is reasonable. That blockage is too crazy for words. Those workers are again the victims of the 1996 wage freeze law. This is a unique law in Europe that makes it possible to block wages. Minister, that law is unfair. There must be room for real storage. Do you think that 0.4 % is a serious wage margin? Are you going to let it be that low? Or do you support our proposal to apply the maximum wage standard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u24	Minister, it is today that the Central Economic Council presents its technical report, which is to serve as a basis for work on the Interprofessional Agreement (IPA). Negotiations can now begin. The announced wage margin is 0.4% excluding indexation and baraemic revalorisation, as of course. It is well known that we live in an open economy, highly dependent on exports. For this reason, it is necessary at all costs to maintain the competitiveness of our businesses compared to that of our neighbours. I would point out that there is still a historical wage handicap that needs to be addressed. Some of my colleagues are advocating the outright abolition of the 1996 Act and ignoring the resulting legal vacuum. For others, the solution would be a suspension of the IPA for the period 2021-2022, allowing negotiations to take place at sectoral level. For our part, the negotiations of the social partners must be open to broader reflection. In other words, the IPA negotiations must take place in conjunction with those of the welfare envelope, as is traditionally the case in our country. Minister, you were able to read the report of the Central Economic Council. Can you confirm the margin that has been decided and that will serve as a framework for negotiations? Furthermore, as I have pointed out, it is our tradition that the negotiations of the social partners on the IPA and the welfare envelope take place in parallel. It comes to my mind that, despite everyone's wishes, that would no longer be the case this time. What is the situation in practice? If so, what do your government partners think? Minister, you are in charge of both Labour and the Economy. For this reason, you have to look after everyone's interests: to support the purchasing power of citizens, but also to ensure the competitiveness of our businesses and, therefore, to safeguard employment. How are you going to fulfil this role as guardian and achieve a fair balance in the uncertain economic context we know? Finally, what is the expected timetable in these two files?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u25	Colleagues, thank you for your questions on important issues. The technical report of the Secretariat of the Central Council for Business will be published officially today. As you know, this report covers, among other things, the maximum margins available for wage cost development. As you also know, this report should have been available by 15 December 2020. However, this year, due to the crisis, the Central Economic Council was unable to provide its report in time. This is quite understandable, given the measures taken in Belgium, but also in our neighbours, to help businesses and workers. This aid is fully justified in view of the crisis that we are experiencing, that we have been through and that we are still going through. But, of course, it makes it difficult to compare the evolution of wage costs, in particular because of their diversity, since some countries have favoured direct support for workers, as is the case with us, through temporary unemployment systems; others have opted for aid to enterprises through wage subsidies, particularly in the Netherlands. As you know, the 1996 law, as amended in 2017, provides that it is the social partners who must then set the wage margin under the IPA, in the context of a negotiation which, if by accident it was sometimes linked to the distribution of the welfare envelope, is in any case not directly linked to it under the law. Only in the event of disagreement between the social partners can the government be called upon to intervene in the final analysis. As I said earlier, I strongly support social dialogue, which is one of the fundamental pillars of our social model. You will understand that I do not want to interfere in the ongoing discussions. I want the social partners to exercise their full competence in determining this margin and will therefore not comment on the report and the ongoing negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u26	Minister, social dialogue must come from two sides. Now the social dialogue is actually starting, the 0.4%. We do not want to talk about 0.4%, we simply have to get rid of that chain. You're not gonna start a social consultation with the knife on the throat, are you? That's just absurd. Minister, your spearhead was the minimum wage of 14 euros. How will you achieve that if you do not want to go beyond that 0.4%? Relance starts with purchasing power. The biggest losers of this crisis are the middlemen, the catering industry and the people who are going to work because they have suffered the greatest loss of income. If we want to get out of this impasse, we will have to invest in purchasing power. Otherwise, the economy will really not recover from this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answer. As can be seen, the 0.4 per cent wage margin proposed by the Central Economic Council is relatively conservative. Finally, it seems logical to allow our economy to stay afloat by relieving our historical wage disadvantage and, I repeat, by saving as many jobs as possible. I understand that you were under some pressure from the unions to deviate from the line proposed by the Central Economic Council. But as I said, you are also the Minister of Economy, and as such, your role is also to preserve the competitiveness of our businesses. I agree with you, your role is not simple, and we will have to find the right balance between the two. The solution is certainly to be found in negotiations which will take place between the social partners, and which will cover both the interprofessional agreement and the well-being envelope. In this way, the reflection will be more comprehensive and ultimately more balanced. The social partners have traditionally negotiated this way. Let them work on the basis of this approach. We will support you in this process.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u28	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk to you today about a social shield. Social protection means being able to grant both rights and income to those who are dismissed (I am thinking of the Renault plan), it is being able to support companies that are experiencing difficulties because of the corona, with temporary unemployment, it is also being able to pay allowances on time and on time to those who are entitled to it. Yesterday and today alone, three plans for collective redundancies were announced: 64, 47, 125! 64 jobs lost at Solvay in Neder-over-Heembeek, 47 jobs at AGC (Seneffe), 125 jobs at L'Oréal in Brussels. These are in addition to plans already known for several months (Lunch Garden, Ryanair, Sodexo). All these numbers are really cold on my back. These hundreds of people find themselves unemployed, sometimes in connection with the covid crisis, sometimes not. With an economy that is rowing for the time being, growth is expected to be 3.5% in 2021. But GDP was less than 6.7 in 2020. Dismissals will be no less frequent in 2021, alas. So there are a lot of job losses, and at the same time, we receive dozens of testimonies from unemployed people who are entering a case at CAPAC, waiting for an answer and, of course, their allowance, sometimes since May, sometimes for simple oblivion, for complex cases. Among them, many artists actually live an administrative hell. Minister, CAPAC is out of date and it is really not for lack of goodwill or mobilization of all services. The workers are exhausted. You have already committed resources to help them, and that goes quite well in the right direction, but it is not yet enough, in the face of the distress of those who are waiting for an income. There is another element of the social shield on which I would also like to question you. You announced the freezing of the decline in unemployment. Thank you very much for moving this issue forward, but why until February 28 only? The social contract underlying degression is that the allowance is linked to an active job search. This is a measure that really protects workers. It must continue (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u29	Mrs Cornet, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u30	Madam Member, thank you for your important question. Like you, I get up in the morning and sleep in the evening with, in the viewfinder, the unemployment figures, the number of dismissals, the number of social plans and the number of closures. It haunts my days. It haunts my nights. As Minister of Economy and Labour, I can assure you. Of course, we must do everything, no matter what the cost, to ensure that the consequences of this health crisis are the least sensitive to the population as a whole and to our economic fabric. First of all, as the Prime Minister said earlier, and as the Minister of Health will probably say in a few moments, there will be respect for the measures and a constant fight against this pandemic. The best way to save our economy, to defend the work in this country, is to make sure that the fight against this pandemic is successful. It must, from morning to evening, animate our thoughts and support our actions. I think we need to remind him every moment in each of our speeches. It's essential. Health and economy go hand in hand. You're talking about the social shield. Let us agree that it works in Belgium! It is the fruit of our history, the fruit of fighting, the fruit of progress on the streets, on the barricades, but also within this assembly and between the social partners in the context of social consultation. It's important to remind him. It's not all right, of course. There are still difficulties which, from an individual point of view, are unacceptable and unbearable for those who face delays and defaults in payments or administrative harassment. I agree with you. We must do everything possible to eliminate as quickly as possible the backlog in the payment of certain allowances, even if – and I would like to repeat it here, I have already said in committee on Tuesday or Wednesday – substantial efforts have been made by social services and public services to respond to an influx of requests for temporary unemployment and allowances in our country. I would like to pay tribute to those who worked day and night, including weekends, including holidays, in those services that you have cited to ensure that the delay can be resolved as quickly as possible. We must of course continue to put all the energies in place to make up for this delay and to ensure that every person who is entitled to an allowance, to a replacement income in that country can benefit directly from it. Finally, a key challenge will also be to succeed in our recovery plan that we have negotiated with and build with the federated entities. It will be essential for our economy and for the workers of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u31	Minister, thank you for your extremely proactive response. Although I have been sitting for a short time, I know you are sensitive to this question, because you have already expressed it. I saw it perfectly. The fight against the pandemic is indeed the first initiative to be taken to create this shield which, as you say, works. We must therefore continue to activate it by drawing it further and further, as the meaning of history wants. I wanted to insist on the people who are moving at the moment in the Renault plan. You have answered this question in part. I hear your voluntarism with CAPAC and invite you to extend the commitments that were made in 2020, in order to fill the backlog in the course of the year. In addition, you have recently broken a taboo in the press by communicating about the recovery of aid to companies that are licencing while earning profits. I congratulate you. Perhaps this theme should be questioned in times of crisis. In any case, my Ecolo-Groen group and I stand by you to move forward on these issues and push this social shield to go one step further, whenever necessary. Indeed, strong support measures for those who are suffering (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u32	Madam Member, thank you. Your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u33	Minister, we will not be safe until everyone is safe. Those aren't empty words. As much as some parties would like us to believe that we are safe, if there were a wall around Belgium, today we are being pushed with the noses on the facts. As long as the virus is around here, in our neighbouring countries or on the other side of the world, we run the risk of mutating the virus. Minister, that is exactly what is happening now. A variant from South Africa and a variant from Great Britain make the medical world worried. In London there is a very strict lockdown. Yet the hospitals are crossing and the ambulances are lining up. That is the effect of a variant of the corona virus that is much more contagious than what we see here. Colleagues, when things went wrong in China, it was said that it was not our case. When it went wrong in Italy, it was also said that it was not our case. Now it's going to go wrong in Britain. Now, please, let us acknowledge that it is our business. After all, it is our business. The mutations are here: fourteen infections with the mutation from Britain and even one infection with the mutation from South Africa have already been detected. The main concern is that the patients concerned have not all been abroad. So they were infected by others, who either haven't been tested or haven't gone into quarantine or both. That's extremely dangerous. What will we do, Minister, now that we find these changes in Belgium? How long will it take before we may be confronted with a dominant variant? How do we prevent this being the most important thing that will damage our vaccination campaign?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u34	Madam President, Minister, many of us look at the covid figures every day. Some indicators, such as hospitalizations and deaths, continue, for the time being, to decline, but unfortunately not quickly enough. The number of contaminations appears to be rising somewhat, although it is known that more tests are being carried out, which is important to note. It can therefore be said that the number of positive tests is not currently blazing. Given these elements, the level of attention in recent days is maximum. It is all the more important that the variants of the virus interfere in the management of the pandemic. I am thinking here of the South African variant, the English variant, but also of others, perhaps, who are particularly contagious and have unfortunately ravaged other countries. Minister, today we are facing two emergencies. First, vaccination. It has been noted that with the federated entities, you have given a real boost in this area, which we can only congratulate you by inviting you to continue in this direction. Secondly, it is necessary to avoid the spread of these variants, especially at a time when the figures can switch from one side to the other. This is all the more important because a further outbreak of the epidemic would complicate the vaccination campaign and make it impossible for certain measures to be so relaxed. Minister, what about the recently introduced genomic surveillance? How many variants have been discovered to date? The World Health Organization reported that the English variant had been detected in 50 countries and territories and that the South African variant had been identified in 20 countries. It is known that Carnival holidays are approaching and that travel abroad could be the flaw in controlling the spread of the virus and these variants. Let us remember the first wave and do not repeat the mistakes of the past! Finally, Minister, do you consider that the surveillance of people returning from abroad is sufficient today to prevent the spread of the virus and variants in particular? Are additional measures envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u35	Madam President, at a time when we are finally facing the prospect of a return to a normal and free life, we are faced with a new danger, including a variant of the virus, B1.17, which affects the British and perhaps also the Irish in a very deadly and terrible way. An analysis of the genome has shown that there are also some samples associated with that variant of the virus. The national reference centre has established this. Fortunately, so far, these have been isolated cases. I asked Professor Herman Goossens, the chairman of the task force testing, to set up a pilot experiment, where we could play on the ball much faster. Just before I came here, Professor Goossens gave me a report of the results, which I would like to give you immediately. The experiment is that one does not do sequencing of the genome, but that one can predict very well on the basis of a well-built PCR test whether we are dealing with the dangerous variant. That happened on a series of patients in Antwerp. These are fairly recent cases: all tests were taken after 2 January. The method is to search for suspicious samples based on what is found in the classical PCR tests and then to apply a specific PCR test which appears to be a very good predictor of the presence of certain variants, in this case the B1.1.7, which is also confirmed by the sequencing of the genome. The report I have just received from Professor Goossens reports 17 researched clusters of patients. Based on the first PCR test, it could be said that it was a suspicious sample and a suspicious case. Nine out of the seventeen were fortunately not confirmed as referring to the B1.1.7 variant, the British variant, eight out of the seventeen though. This is about 18 cases. Six out of eight have been effectively confirmed with sequencing of the genome. The two others show only the prediction based on this specific PCR test. Let us assume that the preliminary result of eight of the seventeen suspect cases will indeed be identifiable with the B1.1.7 variant. Of these eight cases, there are three clusters, without any connection with abroad. Five others do have a foreign link, references to Lebanon, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Dubai. Thanks to a very proactive local health inspector, Dr. Smits, the patients in question have been contacted immediately. She and the GP were also reportedly very satisfied with the fact that they were contacted. From this we can conclude that the B1.1.7 variant is also circulating in Belgium, more than what we knew this morning, and that it is not always related to travel, but sometimes it is. If there is a link with travel, the United Kingdom is not always affected. This variant is more widely distributed. Indeed, based on PCR testing, we can quickly identify suspicious cases and then identify them with good predictive values or it's about such variant. Based on PCR testing in the federal test labs, we know that there is a significant increase in positive samples with an S-gen drop-out. That is one of the indications that such a suspicious variant is in play. This is not always the case, but it is an indication. I am concerned about this and I must be concerned about all of us. We are faced with a new danger. I asked the Government Commissioner to immediately integrate Professor Goossens' data into the analysis and I expect an update of the analysis and advice on what to do with this by tomorrow evening at the latest. It seems clear to me that it is important to play briefly on the ball, even shorter than we have done so far, both with regard to the analysis of the samples - what we can do - and with regard to the follow-up of the patients in question. I'll finish. Traditional hygiene and safety measures are as suitable for these variants as for the viruses we already know. Traditional measures, such as distancing and wearing masks, are as effective against these mutants as against other mutants we already know. We must bet on that first. I will not prejudge further action. You asked me, quite rightly, but I'm not going to get ahead of decisions. I'm waiting for the analysis and the proposals. Safety, hygiene and, as Mrs Jiroflée said, quarantine and isolation, controlled by local authorities, are absolutely essential. I hope to have a more detailed result of these analyses and opinions tomorrow. Of course, we will take all the necessary actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u36	Thank you very much for your comprehensive answer, Minister. I am glad, on the one hand, that you are playing so short on the ball and, on the other hand, that your answer does not really reassure me. I do believe that testing, tracing and quarantine remain the key words. Quick testing, tracing and quarantine! In the meantime, let us all wear the last pieces of discipline: keep our distance, wash our hands, and try to stay safe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answer, which includes several important elements. First of all, I would like to thank you for the moment. Variants should be closely monitored. Indeed, they should not spread, putting a brake on the vaccination campaign, which, as I said earlier, is speeding up, and for which you and the federated entities are making a lot of efforts. This problem will really have to be solved and these variants will not be spread. I hear that there is no systematic or direct correlation with travel, but I still ask you to pay particular attention to it. It will be remembered that during the first wave, the return of the Carnival holidays blew up the figures of the covid-19. You'll have to be careful. Those who will travel abroad during this Carnival holiday will have to observe strict compliance with the measures recommended by the government. I conclude with the barrier gestures that remain more relevant than ever for these variants as for the strain of covid-19. I can only encourage you to continue your efforts and thank you for all your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u38	Madam President, Minister, where is the collective indignation? Where is the statement by the President of the Chamber at the beginning of the session? Where was the Prime Minister's moral finger to condemn yesterday's riots? None of this. Unlike the events in the United States, the riots in Brussels seem to be worth a lot less attention. Madam Minister, while the citizens and the many mayors in this country respect and try to enforce the strict corona measures, a Brussels mayor felt it necessary to allow a 500 demonstrators demonstration on his territory. The risk was very high that it would get out of hand. Madam Secretary, the result is similar. It was a night of riots, destruction, arson and wounded police officers. The list that was passed to me will probably be longer. There was damage and fire in the aerial station of the Brussels-North police zone. Six police vehicles were damaged. There was damage to a tram and bus booths. There were destructions to a pharmacy. There were several garbage can fires and damage to city furniture. There were several damage to shops and parked vehicles. The sad low point is that there were several wounded in the police force, a police officer being beaten so hard that she is still hospitalized and likely to have to undergo surgery. Madam Secretary, this is unacceptable, isn't it? Surely no reason should be an excuse to allow such excesses? I was standing here last week with my conversation following riots on New Year's Eve in Brussels. You blamed me for repeating myself. We are now a week later and unfortunately I have to repeat, because we got more of the same: rogue immigrant scum that attacks our police, burns and damages buildings and vehicles. So yes, Madam Secretary, unfortunately I have to keep repeating myself. When do you come up with actions to stop these recurring riots?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u39	Madam Secretary, on Saturday, the 23-year-old Ibrahima Barrie died of cardiac arrest after being arrested by the Brussels police. The circumstances are not quite clear yet. It is, I believe, a good thing that the public prosecutor and the P Committee have immediately opened an investigation into involuntary manslaughter, because it must be terrible for the next of kin not to know what happened to that young guest. Yesterday a wake was organized, which was allowed by Mayor Kir despite the corona measures. However, the wake quickly became a manifestation of 500 people, leading to 116 arrests and heavy riots. We see it happening in our capital. No one likes to see it happen. Heavy stones were thrown at the police. Molotov cocktails were thrown to a police station. That is absolutely irresponsible. Too much. Too much is too much. However, the circumstances are not yet known, but I heard a counselor giving his own vision a few minutes before the wake: "If Ibrahima had not been black, he would still have lived. My white children would never have happened to such a thing." It goes without saying that such statements do not calm the moods. I do not make statements about who has made mistakes and who has not, but for CD&V violence by the police is certainly unacceptable, but also violence against the police. I therefore call on you, Madam Minister, to apply the letter on zero tolerance and systematically prosecute the perpetrators. To finish, I have two more questions. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u40	Madam President, Minister, yesterday we were all once again witnessing destructive violence, here a little further, in Saint-Joost-ten-Node. A peaceful wake became a demonstration and resulted in common urban riots. Five police officers were injured, 116 were arrested. There's a lot of material damage, including a police station that was set on fire. The reason was the unfortunate death of Ibrahima Barrie and I would like to express my sincere condolences to his family on behalf of our group. We have to wait for the ongoing investigation into what happened there Saturday night. If there is police violence, it must also be severely punished. We are in favour of zero tolerance for police violence, but we are equally in favour of zero tolerance for violence against the police. Open Vld is the first to stand up for free speech and the right to demonstrate, but that must never degenerate into violence and riots. This must stop because violence can never be accepted. Every act of violence and polarisation threatens our democracy. I refer to what happened last week in the United States. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. What is the status of the investigation into what happened at the police station on Saturday night? The mayor of Saint Joost-ten-Node apparently admitted that demonstration. Was a risk assessment made by the mayor and the chief of police? Was there a tolerance limit and were there agreements with backup? I've seen the footage of the demonstration, the demonstration and the riots. They didn't go coronaproof. You have a ministerial decision of 28 October on corona. Will you act in this matter? Will you stand bourgeois for the officers who were wounded?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u41	Madam Minister, first of all, of course, I would like to express my deepest sympathy to the victim's parents and family. Madam Secretary, last week you felt that I was unnecessarily concerned about the New Year's riots. I think it is high time you too started worrying. The mayor of Brussels, who allowed the demonstration, has a huge responsibility for me, all the more so because social media had already been called into hatred against the police in advance and because the family's attorney also grudged and conjecture about an ongoing investigation. I understand the intentions, but perhaps one should have been more careful with the framing of the manifestation, the wake. The temperature in Brussels has recently been so heated that the result was written in the stars. The images speak for themselves, the destruction is enormous. Your colleague and yourself are doing a bombastic announcement policy of harsh words about zero tolerance. Show us that you will do it. Will you and the Minister of Justice act hard this time and send a strong signal to the perpetrators of violence, to the people and, above all, to the Brussels agents, who had another hellish evening yesterday? In order to rectify the situation in Brussels, more will be needed than empty promises. Send a strong federal signal to our capital, where the Brussels government and the mayor are failing. Madam Secretary, where is your fiercely announced zero tolerance? Will you, as has already been announced, pose a personal bourgeois party? I'm just expecting a simple yes or no. What will you do to play the ball briefly so that the perpetrators can be arrested and the Justice Department can do its job?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u42	Madam Secretary, the death of a 23-year-old young man is first and foremost a tragedy, a great human tragedy that causes a great deal of suffering to family and friends. We therefore wish to express our sincere condolences from our group. There are many questions, but on the other hand we must have confidence in the research. At first glance, the investigation was well underway: an investigating judge was appointed, the P Committee's Polls department was involved, the investigation was, of course, withdrawn from the Brussels context, an autopsy was carried out, all the camera images were seized and so on. That must guarantee that the truth is out of date. If I may say so, lessons were clearly drawn from the Chovanec case. To get answers, we need a serious investigation. There will be no answers from riots, destructions or arson. Violence can never be an answer and we must always condemn it. The attitude of the family, on the other hand, was worthy and serene, all praise for it in these very difficult circumstances. The family didn't want that violence and even tried to stop it. Hail for that. A lot of questions remain about, among other things, the speedy or slow delivery of medical assistance in the Commissariat, about communication with the family, about transparency. Most of all, I'm wondering why Ibrahima was arrested. All kinds of these are doing the rounds. Did it have anything to do with drugs? Apparently not. Was there a crime committed? Apparently not. Was the curfew violated? Obviously not, because the arrest took place at 7:00 p.m. Is it possible that the young man was arrested because he was filming a police operation? That can and should never be a reason for arrest, because it is not a crime. In short, transparency and communication are needed, and they need to be there quickly. Madam Secretary, I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will divide my answer to the questions you have put to me into two parts. I would like to say in advance that those two parts are equally important to me, in so far as they would create uncertainty about them. First of all, I think it is appropriate to express our condolences to the family, the relatives and the friends. A young person has died in circumstances that are unclear, and that is, of course, terrible. The riots that broke out last night were preceded by a first peaceful static demonstration for the police department in which Ibrahima Barrie died last week. That demonstration came at the request of Ibrahima's family as a tribute, and also to ask for clarity about the circumstances of his death. Moreover, I believe that we have already seen in other cities of this country that such a question is coming. The mayor of Saint-Joost-ten-Node had given his consent to that static demonstration. I would like to stress that, on the basis of the ministerial decision, Article 15 (9), which effectively states that if the mayor makes the analysis, a static demonstration is still possible. This is, of course, in line with our Constitution, which is so dear to you all and which respects freedom of expression and demonstration. The demonstration took place in the first place in a relatively peaceful manner, thanks also to the internal security service. She didn't get out of control until after. As regards the facts and circumstances of the death, and the situation that preceded it, I cannot give you any details today because, as has already been said here, an investigation has been initiated by the P Committee of Surveys under the direction of the Public Prosecutor's Office. We must wait and see before we can make a statement on this. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the P Committee were immediately on the spot and seized, among other things, the images of the facts. So, Mr Depoostere, I can assure you that I have already come up with some action, which you have just questioned. There has indeed been an immediate response. I would like to thank the Public Prosecutor and the P Committee for their speedy action. That is a clear signal, based on what we have learned in the past, that a death after a police intervention is taken seriously, and that the necessary action is taken immediately. In the interests of a proper investigation, of course, we must respect the secret of the investigation and I must wait with you for the results of the judicial investigation. The Commissioner-General has already asked for access to the file. On this basis, any disciplinary or order measures may be taken if necessary. In the meantime, I call on everyone to preserve serenity. Incendiary statements in one direction or another do not contribute to this and do not help to wait for the results of the investigation. Last night's riots are completely unacceptable and undermine the call for peace and calm that initially came from the victim's family. The police have made 112 administrative arrests and 4 judicial arrests. I would ask my colleague, Mr Van Quickenborne, to follow this dossier closely. I also call for a swift prosecution, because if the public prosecutor and the justice department follow this up quickly, that will be a clear signal for all hotheads. The intervention also called for assistance from the federal police. In the entire force, both local and federal police, there were 15 wounded. One policewoman was seriously injured. We need to maintain the zero tolerance line for violence against the police, and I've asked the General Inspectorate to review the circumstances. I will also do what is necessary to set myself up as a bourgeois party with regard to the members of the federal police, and I invite the mayors of Brussels and Saint-Joost-ten-Node to do the same with regard to their policemen. I would like to thank the police for their actions because it is not obvious to risk their own security for the safety of many others and public space. They deserve a big plume and our full respect for that. I understand that the loss of a family member causes a deep pain and that there are many questions, but I will never accept that those feelings are abused by others to destroy, to set fire or to set things on stilts. That is why I will continue all my initiatives to monitor zero tolerance and, within my competence, do everything possible to avoid such situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u44	Madam Minister, for the umpteenth time I hear too much non-committalism in your reply. The demonstration got out of hand. The rioters are some hotheads. Madam Minister, we will not solve this situation by organizing tea parties with this ethnic scum that keeps making our streets unsafe. Madam Secretary, I am sick of it, and the population is sick of the fact that every time ethnic scum goes on the streets to destroy shops and cars. I'm sick of it, and the people are sick of having our policemen play boxing ball on such facts. I am tired and the population is tired of hearing political decision-makers say a lot of words over and over again, without any action following. Madam Minister, confidence in you and in your policy will be as high as the number of votes you obtained in the previous elections: 0.0.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u45	Madam Minister, thank you for your condolences to the relatives, but also thank you for clearly condemning the riots here. It is clear: in this capital there is a cat-and-mouse game going on and we must all try to do that. I ask you, all your colleagues but also the Members of this House, to do the following. Make sure that we can invest in enough people in those neighbourhoods, that we can support the government, that we get as little of those riots as possible, but also that we can enter into dialogue, that we can organise the good understanding between young people and the police again. I am convinced that after this dialogue we will be able to tolerate each other again and that we will see much less riots. I am glad that you strongly condemn this and that the people who did it will be severely condemned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u46	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your answers. Colleagues, every death is too much. However, that can never or never be a reason to use force against the police. Except for the victim and the wounded cop, there's a whole bunch of victims. Those are all those people with a migration background, who do their best every day to integrate here and who want to cooperate here, do their best and work on their own career and future in our society. Because of that small group of rioters that did damage yesterday in Brussels, all these people are also a bit victimized. After all, they are being watched today and tomorrow and checked by many people, which is unjust. Madam Secretary, the mayor of Saint Joost-ten-Node must attend a course in risk analysis. A wake in front of the police station where the person in question died is really not a good idea. Maybe you could give him that. When he gets here, I'll tell him the same thing. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it is very clear to my party. Violence by and against the police is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u47	Madam President, Minister, first of all, I am pleased that you have answered the question on bourgeois elections and that you will ask yourself a bourgeois party. Eventually I got a yes, albeit after several attempts. Secondly, as Mr Vandenput has pointed out, the mayor has made a very serious error of assessment in this respect. It is very interesting and very important that you address him to that. After all, this cannot go on. We must, of course, wait and see today's investigation. It's only right that you can't tell me now. We fully understand that. Afterwards, however, acting quickly will be very important. We must work on that. A task force can be set up. However, that should not happen in two or three months' time, but today or tomorrow. The perpetrators must be apprehended. Justice should be able to do its job. Such facts must never happen again in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u48	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer. However, let us also zoom out once in a while in this House and, apart from the concrete facts, think carefully about what is actually going on. There is great distrust in the field between a group of young people and the police. One group feels endorsed and discriminated against by the police. On the other hand, policemen who have to act on the ground on a daily basis in often very difficult circumstances are confronted with violence against police. Both are unacceptable. In the long run, however, they end up in a vicious circle. So the question is, how do we get out of there? There must be renewed trust in the police. The police must be able to give that confidence by acting correctly on a daily basis. That's the challenge. That's what the government agreement says, that's what your policy papers say. In us you will find a partner to work in depth there too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u49	Madam President, Madam Minister, the corona measures were implicitly extended, without communication or motivation and without any democratic debate. We wouldn't have known if a awake citizen hadn't noticed it in the Belgian Official Journal. However, this Vivaldic coalition promised that there would be a new political culture and that people would communicate openly and honestly to the citizens. You are also Minister for Democratic Renewal, but I think this is in stark contrast to what this government has decided, in particular not to communicate. You have indeed decided not to communicate about the extension. If that is the harbinger of democratic renewal, then I will hold on to my heart. Your fellow Minister Vandenbroucke said in committee that the realm of freedom is in sight, but what do we see now? Society is locked up again for six weeks. Much has also been said about these six weeks, because it seems that this is the average duration of a ministerial decision. You referred to it as some sort of formality or automatism, which in reality is not automatic. We must not take this lightly. This is not an implied extension of, for example, an internet subscription. These measures are very significant for many people, including many self-employed and small entrepreneurs who are now bleeding heavily financially. I'm also ships in Zelzate and I get a lot of testimonials from self-employed people that they can't do anymore, that they're almost through their reserves. That shows the failing policy in fighting the coronavirus. We suck from one lockdown to another with over-stringing and relaxing, as a kind of on-and-off button, because after ten months we still have no well-functioning source research and no full test strategy. This does not mean that we are not in favour of the measures. On the contrary, we are in favour of measures to prevent the spread of the virus, but we are in favour of specific and targeted measures. Hence my questions. Can we finally have an open and democratic debate on the (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u50	Your speaking time is over, Mr De Vuyst.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u51	Madam President, I said a few things yesterday. The Consultative Committee met on 8 January. A press release followed to inform those decisions. The measures remained in force. A change was made only for the driving schools, because of their essential character. In view of the Krokus holiday, it was decided to maintain the measures until 1 March. That decision of the Consultative Committee must be translated into a ministerial decision, as has been the case for many months now. You are asking whether that six-week period has actually been raised by me. I assume you want to believe me as quickly as the journalist in De Standaard, who should have done his homework a little better. It is true that the previous ministerial decisions had an initial validity of six weeks. The previous ministerial decision of early December also applied for six weeks. This does not alter the fact that, in the meantime, amending ministerial decisions can be taken. It is those amending decisions that were taken into account, which led that journalist to a false conclusion. I'm not gonna waste any more energy and time on that. The Ministerial Decision of 12 January, which was necessary to extend the measures, was a purely translation of the decision of the Consultative Committee of 8 January, in which all governments were represented. I understand the commotion about that date. I specifically said that yesterday. I think we should learn from that and do it better. That's not up for discussion. I think that we should not focus on the date of 1 March, but on the ongoing evaluation we are making on the basis of the daily figures on which adjustments are needed. We had set up the Consultation Committee on 22 January to consider whether we should give perspective to certain professional groups. Moreover, there is now also the fact of the variant that has emerged. The question is whether we need to take additional measures for border traffic, not to close the borders, which I do not prefer, but to see if we can keep that new variant out. I think this is the most important message. This will enable us to process that legal basis, including for the future. Again, I understand that there are many questions about that legal basis. I simply refer to the Council of State and what I have said on several occasions. I do not think that this should be an objection to continuing these measures. We hate to do it, but it's necessary. We all want to get rid of the virus as soon as possible. That is why we must have and comply with these measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u52	Madam Minister, you have taken your answers to the debate on the validity of a ministerial decision. In the end, it was mainly about communication. Parliament has not been informed. There has been no democratic debate about it. We can't just lightly prolong those measures, can we? We are in favour of a number of measures, but we are in favour of finding an alternative to that lockdown and taking targeted and adapted measures. It is a whole package of measures, including very far-reaching measures in the foundations of our rule of law. The measure to damage the principle of the inviolability of the home, in the context of residence is extended and the investigating judge is sidetracked. The drones remain in the street view. Democratic rights are also restricted. For example, colleagues from Swissport workers who have been made redundant cannot undertake solidarity actions for them. Madam Minister, we call for this debate to take place in this Parliament. Hopefully there aren't two sizes and two weights left. A lot of self-employed people are having a hard time, but a lot of employees in large companies are also afraid to get infected...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u53	Your speaking time is over, Mr De Vuyst.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u54	Madam Chair, Minister, on December 30, 2020, the Consultation Committee (Codeco) established new rules for the return of red areas for testing and quarantine. The Walloon Region and the Flemish Region have therefore put in place a procedure to ensure that the identity of the recalcitrant persons identified by the regional health inspector is transmitted to the competent mayor via a secure platform. Nevertheless, it seems that several mayors are asking for clarification and that in Wallonia, the platform sometimes presents difficulties of access. In the Brussels-Capital Region, none of this. The mayors of the Brussels municipalities do not have the listing of persons who do not comply with the measures. The Brussels-Capital Region therefore seems not to implement the Codeco decisions. In Brussels, however, the situation is very serious. There was a 94% increase in contamination between the end of December and now. In Etterbeek, for example, the incidence rate increased from 167 to 345 cases per 100,000 inhabitants between the end of December and today. However, the mayors are obliged to take specific measures on the basis of the Royal Decree of 28 October 2020. The mayor of Etterbeek has therefore made an order for the regional health inspector to cooperate with his municipality. Minister, was the role of the mayor in the repressive follow-up of recalcitrant people to the measures decided by the Codeco of 30 December 2020 well mentioned by this Codeco? If so, can you give us any clarifications? If not, should the next Codeco not specify how the follow-up of recalcitrants should be organized?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u55	Madam President, Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to welcome the vast majority of citizens who respect the measures we have imposed to combat the pandemic. With the particularly virulent variants coming from Britain and South Africa, it is imperative today to redouble our efforts. In this fight, we, the mayors, have an essential role to play. We must make every effort to ensure that the measures imposed by the different levels of power are respected. We must make every effort to reduce the number of contaminations. Since this week, we have received the names of people who do not respect the quarantine, or who do not comply with the requests of the various contact tracking centres, particularly in the context of travel returns. Minister, how do the mayors react to this information? In my view, on the one hand they can make use of the communal services, the social services, to enable the citizens concerned to better understand, to better respect the quarantine. For example, in my municipality, we offer a service to help with shopping. But on the other hand, for those who deliberately refuse to respect the rules, at some point the police may have to intervene. In this context, Madam Minister, the mayors are seeking clarification on the legal possibilities available to them to monitor compliance with the measures. Minister, could your services propose a harmonized framework in which mayors across the country could act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u56	Mrs Gilson, Mr Thiébaut, thank you very much for your questions. As you know, quarantine rules fall within the scope of preventive health care and therefore the competence of the Communities – where they apply differently. Nevertheless, within the Conciliation Committee, we have insisted that these rules should be harmonised between the Communities. Their respective representatives on the JCC undertook to take initiatives to that end. In short, quarantine controls depend on the Communities, which give their instructions to the mayors. In Flanders, from this week onwards, they may receive, if they conclude a protocol with the Flemish Agency for Health Care, data on persons residing in their communes who must be quarantined, the duration of which may also be communicated to them, as well as the addresses of the persons concerned. Under certain conditions, the mayors may decide to share certain data with the local police for control purposes. I understand that Walloon mayors are kept informed, via a platform, of people who flagrantly violate the quarantine rules, but also that the legal basis for this data transfer still needs to be examined. As far as Brussels is concerned, I understand that additional health inspectors are monitoring compliance with these measures and that the competent minister is meeting with the mayors today to discuss the next steps. In the German-speaking Community, there is cooperation between doctors and mayors in monitoring this obligation. It is impossible to control by doing door-to-door. A quarantine inspection will also be carried out as part of regular inspections. Local authorities may, depending on the applicable rules, verify compliance with the quarantine obligation. In any case, I have taken note of your questions. I shall continue to insist on the need for monitoring the implementation of these measures by the mayors, each on behalf of his Community. I'll send the message to the concertation committee. This is essential, because quarantine is necessary to fight the virus. To that end, we must therefore harmonise the legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u57	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As a liberal, I obviously advocate the empowerment of everyone above all, in the efforts to limit the spread of covid-19. Repression is certainly not the only way to enforce the measures by our fellow citizens. However, it must be noted that, unfortunately, for a minority of people, this is a necessary approach. In less than a month, it will be the carnival holiday (krokusvakantie). I thank you for ensuring uniform application of the measures throughout the country, in all regions of the country, as soon as possible, as Minister of the Interior. It's essential. The fight against the pandemic, and also the equal treatment of Belgians before the law, are at stake.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u58	Minister, thank you for hearing our requests. We live in a complicated country. We have an opportunity every day to see this, especially in the context of the fight against the pandemic. I therefore stress the need for consultation between the different levels of power. As you said, quarantine control depends on the regions but is imposed by a royal decree. Initially, it was a federal decision and the mayors were also asked to play a role. It is therefore essential, in our struggle, that concerted action be taken and that we all work together to achieve a result as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u59	Madam President, Secretary of State, it is clear to everyone that a political friend is not the right person to decide, without any control, who will or will not receive a humanitarian visa. Such a system is rotten and leads to abuse, or at least can lead to it. The Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless was put out of play. The Foreign Office didn't have a single look at the files. The Secretary of State's office didn't refuse a single file. Moreover, there was no follow-up when they arrived here in Belgium. While visa applications submitted to embassies require a highly documented dossier, this was apparently not necessary in the parallel Francken system. Where are those files? Even such a simple question has not been answered all this time. I'll tell you, they don't exist. This was an accident waiting to happen. The Secretary of State may therefore spare us his bewilderment. This was his responsibility. He chose a system without any control. Even agreements with Mr Kucam were totally lacking. This was a blank check, this was a safe passage. Mr Secretary of State, you rightly announced more transparency in the press, but that alone is not enough. We are not going to be able to derive abuse from post-visa figures. From the figures, for example, we could not conclude that, under the Kucam system, more than a hundred people were travelling from Belgium and disappeared completely off the radar. Because indeed, where are they? No, we need a resettlement plan for each humanitarian visa issued in advance. With such a plan, we also immediately identify who will succeed in Belgium and who will guarantee it, so that we can be sure that asylum is applied for immediately and that integration is also done immediately. Mr Secretary of State, will you indeed work on such a plan for each humanitarian visa issued?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u60	Madam President, Mr Segers, the Kucam arrest is quite clear: one of my predecessors has worked with a smuggler, a member of a criminal organisation. It is true, as you say, that this is not the way to work. At least it's not a sign of good governance. Working with individual intermediaries can cause problems. For a piece a political choice was made in that sense. Saying that this is regrettable is one aspect, but another aspect is that the Secretary of State is the ultimate responsibility of the political choices made regarding the persons with whom a humanitarian visa is co-operated. The humanitarian visa is necessary and we must make use of it. To this end, I would like to work by three different methods, perhaps known to you. The humanitarian visa may be issued in the case of resettlement, to which it is necessary to cooperate with recognised organisations, in this United Nations. The humanitarian visa is also used in individual cases, for example for medical reasons or for a person left behind while the rest of his family is here. This can also be done by working with a reliable partner, in particular the Foreign Affairs Office. Finally, it is also possible to work with recognised organisations in the context of rescue operations without having to pass through individual intermediaries that are known by chance. In the past such cooperation took place, for example, with Sant' Egidio, which set up a rescue operation for 150 Syrians, Christians and Muslims. Their beliefs did not matter, but their degree of vulnerability. We want to use this method. You can charge me for that method by being transparent. You are now asking a question about this and Mrs Lanjri asked about it in the previous legislature. I therefore promise annual reporting. We must also ensure that the ICT system is sufficient. To this end, I need to work with the Foreign Affairs Office and the Foreign Affairs Office, so that information can be grouped much better and then communicated transparently with Parliament. After all, Parliament and its citizens deserve fair and correct communication, fair and correct policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u61	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your commitment. Transparency is indeed very important. I am glad that you will provide transparency. At the same time, I would again like to call for a resettlement plan for each humanitarian visa issued. Canada already proves that it can, so you don't have to reinvent the wheel. Citizens and organisations applying for visas in Canada also guarantee the reception and integration of refugees. In this way, people with a humanitarian visa, such as Mr Kucam, will be avoided from the radar and at least they will be sure that asylum applications will always be made. In addition, it also ensures that newcomers quickly learn the language and find a job. Now, that's really fair migration without backdoors. That's controlled and human. That's good governance with head and heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u62	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u63	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 January 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 January 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u64	The next item is the counting of the ballot for the appointment of the alternate members of the boards of directors of UNIA/MYRIA. The next item is the inclusion of votes in order to designate alternate members of UNIA/MYRIA boards. Nominations were announced in plenary on 17 September 2020. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 17 September 2020. The document containing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you. (1583/1) The piece with the names of the candidates was delivered to you. (1583/1) In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 17 December 2020, members were able to vote from Monday 4 January 2021 to today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 17 December 2020, members were able to vote from Monday 4 January 2021 until 4 p.m. today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u65	The next item is the counting of the ballot for the appointment of the French-speaking federal mediator. The next item is the vote on the appointment of the French-speaking Federal Ombudsman. Nominations were announced in plenary on 23 April 2020. Candidates were announced at the plenary session on 23 April 2020. On 17 November 2020, the Petitions Committee held a hearing of the candidates. Ms Dominiek Sneppe reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 9 December 2020. On 17 November 2020 the candidates were heard by the Petitions Committee. Ms Dominiek Sneppe reported on this hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 9 December 2020. The document containing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you. (1694/1) The piece with the names of the candidates was delivered to you. (1694/1) In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 10 December 2020, members were able to vote from Monday 4 January 2021 to today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 December 2020, members were able to vote from Monday 4 January 2021 until 4 p.m. today. The two youngest members present (Dries Van Langenhove, Melissa Depraetere) are invited to attend the counting of the ballots. This will now take place in Room 3. The two youngest members present (Dries Van Langenhove, Melissa Depraetere) are invited to attend the recording of the votes. This will now take place in Room 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u66	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Samuel Cogolati, Wouter De Vriendt, Séverine de Laveleye, Malik Ben Accour, Vicky Reynaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u67	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. This is not (Rgt 85, 4) (524/4) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (524/4) The title has been amended by the committee to "proposal for a resolution to support a United Nations binding treaty on business and human rights" and a European initiative on the duty of vigilance". The title was changed by the Commission to "Proposal for a Resolution on support for a binding UN Convention on Enterprise and Human Rights and a European initiative on duty of care." The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Michel De Maegd, refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u68	Madam President, the draft of the future treaty on business and human rights has had a positive evolution compared to the 2018 zero draft, but still contains elements that cause concern and are fundamental enough to be clarified. Human rights violations would also include environmental issues, which are always sensitive and, of course, extend the scope of the Convention very much. The principle of forum non-conveniens is introduced by the transnational nature of the text, which would allow the victims to shop to the most appropriate court to raise their case, to the detriment of the defending party. This increases the possible liability of companies, which now have to cover themselves against whatever their business relations or companies are doing somewhere in their supply chain. We understand the objective of calling large multinationals into order using impure subcontracting, but it also increases the threshold for small companies wishing to undertake international activities. Companies need to conduct a broader due diligence study on human rights in order to detect risks, take measures and report on them publicly. Sanctions would also be imposed for non-compliance with those standards, regardless of whether this is related to a specific human rights violation, in other words, a possible broad civil and criminal exposure for companies due to damage caused by subsidiaries or subcontractors, in whatever jurisdiction they operate. This brings with it the necessary nervousness and uncertainty for transnational companies and potential treaty states that may see their case law undermined.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u69	In other words, the potential impact and consequences of such an instrument are currently difficult to grasp. During the sixth round of negotiations, the EU indicated that the text was not yet a legal basis for negotiations and that there was a problem if many important industrial countries, such as the US, remain sidelined during the process. For Green and sp.a we had to participate fully in the drafting of the treaty and do everything in our power to ensure that the instrument was adopted and implemented as soon as possible, regardless of the final form. They wanted to continue even without the EU, if no compromise could be found. Fortunately, the other government parties were able to temper them in this. Colleagues, human rights are essential and, of course, we also call for strict compliance, regardless of whether they are states, individuals or companies. However, please be careful to give carte blance to major international instruments that create new rights and obligations on the left and right, of which we cannot yet predict the possible consequences. Do not agree to this until you have seen the end result. We owe it to the citizen to be careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u70	Colleagues, with the resolution we have tabled, together with Samuel Cogolati of Ecolo-Green, colleagues from the PS and the sp.a., we want the Chamber to insist on compliance with human rights by companies. That is a debate that is currently under way and is, of course, very complex. It takes place at different levels of policy: in the Chamber, of course, but certainly also at the level of the European Union and at the level of the United Nations. This is very important, because there is currently little provision for legislation and regulation. There are therefore many gaps in international architecture. I would like to emphasise the word 'international', because everything takes place in a context of globalisation: in an international economy with companies operating in different countries, and in fact, from the principle of the universality of human rights, they should respect human rights throughout the chain, including in the subsidiaries in the different countries where they operate. However, to ensure that this is done and, if necessary, to take action, the necessary legislation and regulations are currently lacking, hence the resolution before us, so that our country can position itself in the debate. The globalisation we are talking about is definitely winners and losers, but we see that the losers are left to their fate too often. They could be victims of disasters, farmers whose land is being taken away, exploited workers, people suffering damage from dangerous chemicals or pesticides, etc. It is therefore a question of human rights violations involving companies, sometimes Belgian companies, and often they go unpunished. In practice, the complexity of transnational companies and the lack of binding international regulation often lead to impunity, and this must stop. Companies that violate human rights must be held accountable. Victims are often unable to move to the country of the company's headquarters or to the country where the company operates. There is no point of contact for example to claim compensation. Companies must be absolutely transparent about their role in their own country and beyond. It is necessary to report on how they show respect for human rights in the entire production and supply chain. Not only to take legal action when necessary, but also to the consumer, transparency is an absolute necessity. Consumers want to know whether the food and clothing they buy are ethically produced products. The government agreement is a lever for us in this respect, because it contains an important passage, in particular that the government will play a leading role in the development of a European legislative framework on duty of care. Where possible, a supportive national framework will be developed for this purpose. That is a clear ambition. There is also the passage in the coalition agreement which states that Belgium will only accept new trade and investment agreements when high social and environmental standards are applied and binding. We should do it in our country for the time being with an action plan from 2017. That was certainly a step forward at the time, but it still stuck too much in the non-binding. The debate has evolved, certainly internationally, which means that we can move forward in all these different areas. Not only in Belgium, by the way, look at other countries. In Switzerland there was a narrowly lost referendum, France has a national law on duty of care, in Germany there is a lot going on. At the level of the United Nations, there are directives from 2011, but at this moment a binding treaty is being negotiated. A number of negotiating rounds have already taken place, but for us it is also important for the European Union to take an active part in these negotiations at the UN. While we are talking about the European Union, there is also a wide range of movements and a legislative initiative in the pipeline. The big trigger in that story is European Commissioner Reynders, who bears the responsibility there and has come up with some good plans. Only recently we see that it will be important to persevere and maintain the right course, because from a number of parliamentary groups there are protests and attempts to weaken the texts and to achieve due diligence light, a light version of the duty of care that is still needed. Of course, we know the classic slopes in such cases. The text would be watered down or threatened to be watered down, for example by no longer allowing victims and NGOs to bring companies to justice if they violate human rights. Another classic is falling back on a purely grievance system. Colleagues, these are, however, stages that have already passed. We can no longer accept the current situation, in which companies are getting rid of it, by pretending not to know anything about malpractice in their sub-contracting at the bottom of the chain. The call for a strong duty of care is becoming louder at all levels of policy. We must fill the gap in international architecture, which is also in the interest of companies that already work ethically. This is evident from the contacts we have had in preparation for the present parliamentary text. Companies that already work ethically ask and beg to have a level playing field, so that other companies also have to meet the same high standards, so that the companies that operate ethically are not competing away. In the resolution, we call on the federal government to act as a pioneer and recognise the urgent need for an international legally binding instrument, to regulate the activities of transnational companies and to ensure respect for human rights in the supply chains, in subsidiaries and in their investments. In the resolution we also call for a Belgian coordinated position following consultation with civil society with the United Nations and an active role of our country at European Union level, so that a European mandate can be established in the negotiations and the European Union acts as a bloc. In the resolution we also ask the government, if the European Union continues to refuse to adopt such a common position, to accept it and to actively participate in the negotiations for a binding UN Convention either individually or with a number of other European countries. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we hope for a strong majority in favour of the text. It is clearly a work in progress, but every stage is important in our opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u71	Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor to this text, which is obviously a very important text for us. I would like to thank the colleagues who participated in the drafting of the report and I have a special thought for my colleague and friend, Malik Ben Achour, who should have spoken today but could not do so. So it is with undisclosed pleasure that I speak on behalf of him – I hope so, with as much talent as he does – and on behalf of my group. It is a text that my group had already co-signed under the leadership of civil society during the 54th Parliament, and which was intended to recognize the need for an international legal instrument, legally binding, to regulate human rights in companies, in the context of international law. Indeed, in view of developments at national and European level in the field of human rights, coherence with the international level remains paramount. We had to ensure that we did not miss the boat and that the process was already too advanced to make substantive contributions as Belgium. The United Nations Convention is an essential and powerful tool for moving progress from the European level to the global level, in order to end violations of human rights and the environment by companies around the world. It will also create a level playing field for companies at the global level. European Commissioner Didier Reynders recently stressed that a duty of vigilance for companies should be a key element of the European Green Deal. We welcome this and stress that environmental crises, such as climate change, biodiversity loss and deforestation, do not stop at borders. A global ambition is more necessary than ever to meet these challenges. The European Union has an obligation enshrined in the European Treaties to respect the principle of multilateralism, an obligation which it defends and enforces in other areas, such as trade and investment. The European Union must defend this value in the field of human rights and the environment by participating in the process of negotiating a binding treaty and must play its role as a world leader by engaging in the process and encouraging its partner countries to engage in it. Belgium will therefore have to take a leading role in this area at European and global level, and I welcome this. In addition to this international context, in Belgium there is an intense mobilization of civil society in favour of the establishment of a Belgian national law on the duty of vigilance. In October 2020, trade union organisations as well as many civil society organisations active in the defence of human rights and the environment signed a memorandum on the Belgian national law on the duty of vigilance. This memorandum calls for an ambitious national framework applicable to all companies active or established in Belgium, enabling companies to be held accountable throughout their value chains and to ensure access to justice for victims. It also explains the essential elements that should be incorporated into a national law so that it can provide effective protection for people and the environment throughout international value chains. That is why my group believes that progress at European and international level must be pursued together. These different laws complement and reinforce each other. They are all needed for global governance in business and human rights. Actions at national level produce and intensify momentum for robust action at supranational level. They prepare States for European legislation. Waiting for the action of the European Union means prolonging a situation of unfair competition within each Member State. On the contrary, national legislation and its evaluation and implementation will help to increase the quality and effectiveness of European and international legislation. Finally, Belgium would not be the first country to move in the direction of a national law on the duty of vigilance. On the contrary, national legislation on the duty of vigilance and the duty of corporate responsibility already exists in Europe or internationally, such as in France, the United Kingdom, Australia or Canada. It can therefore be seen from this florileg of countries that the adoption of national legislation does not fall under a Bolshevik or communist regime. I am therefore very pleased today because my group is on the initiative of such a text, a proposal for a national law which we are going to defend and which will contain two main pillars: a duty of vigilance and a duty of responsibility for companies throughout their value chains. It will require additional effort from large companies as well as companies active in high-risk sectors or regions. These companies will have to draw up a plan of vigilance in consultation with the trade union organisations within the company as well as with civil society organisations whose purpose is to defend human rights, workers and workers or the environment. This vigilance plan can be based on recognized European and international standards, such as the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the eight ILO Conventions and the OECD Guidelines for Large Enterprises. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution before us calls on Belgium to play a leading role in developing an internationally legally binding instrument on the respect of human rights by companies. I would like to stress that it goes without saying that respect for human rights is fundamental and should apply to everyone. At international level, however, there is currently no support for this binding instrument. After six years of negotiations, no compromise has been found and the European Union has recently decided to refrain from further participation in the negotiation process. For once, rather a rarity, we agree with a statement by the European Union, namely that the present text negotiated by a number of states does not provide a proper legal basis. We are surprised that, on the one hand, the proposers are apparently pro EU if it suits them but, on the other hand, they are willing to put the EU aside to form ad hoc coalitions with other Member States. The call in this resolution for Belgium to play a leading role in the creation of an international legally binding instrument in order not only to enforce human rights by international companies but also to punish these Belgian or European companies leads to legal chaos. If a group of people in Latin America believes that they were the subject of human rights violations and hold a company with seats in different EU Member States responsible for such violations, then the binding nature of the undertaking in question will enable them to be prosecuted in any Member State in which they have their registered office. A treaty that creates more uncertainties than it fixes does not contribute to the legal certainty that businesses need. These uncertainties are the result of an unclear scope of direct obligations for companies, not least the problem of extraterritorial jurisdiction, which in itself undermines the sovereignty of a country. Apart from the question of whether we really need additional multilateral agreements, not many industrialised countries have so far been warm to this treaty. This means that multinationals will, in ratifying the treaty as it stands, follow the path of the least resistance and move their seat. Our companies will be careful to take action in countries where they face a lot of additional obligations and legal uncertainty. Our group will therefore not support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the development of a universal legally binding instrument on international societies and other business and human rights is considered by all to be particularly complex. In addition to technical and legal difficulties, the possible implementation of such an instrument raises even more questions. And the positive effect on respect for human rights on the ground, which I believe is our priority, will always remain to be proved. As a reminder, the question of business respect for human rights has been the subject of discussion at the United Nations since 1970. In 2005, Dr. John Ruggie had been appointed Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations on business and human rights. After six years of consultations with all stakeholders, he had presented the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. These guiding principles decline the responsibility of States to protect human rights, the responsibility of companies to respect human rights, and the need for these two actors to provide remedies and remedies for victims of violations through 31 principles, which were adopted unanimously by the Human Rights Council at the time, in which Belgium sat, that is, in June 2011. Belgium has always defended the following position: States are the primary ones responsible for the protection of human rights. It is also the States that draft, sign and ratify the human rights conventions. They have a duty to implement the measures necessary to fulfil the obligations contained in those conventions. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the creation of respect for human rights by companies, our country – the Federal State and the Regions – has taken on its responsibilities by raising awareness of the importance of respect for human rights in their operations in Belgium and elsewhere, by developing a series of initiatives to encourage and help Belgian companies to implement their obligations to respect human rights in their activities and by providing remedies for victims of violations. Colleagues, you know that the discussions on these conventions are laborious. A second version has been under discussion since last summer. Some colleagues have reminded him. A negotiating session will also begin on this subject this year at European level, at the initiative of Commissioner Reynders, should we recall that? Without discouraging itself in view of the complexity of this topic, Belgium has always advocated the constructive participation of the European Union in the discussions of the Intergovernmental Working Group. Let us not forget that many of the issues raised by the draft Treaty fall within the exclusive competence of the Union with regard to trade policy and mixed competences. It is therefore not clear how specific Member States can act. Not from a political point of view, of course. I would like to remind you of our willingness to promote, in a cross-cutting way, respect for human rights, including in commercial matters, through our businesses, also when they have to deal with foreign companies. It is, of course, from a legal point of view that this is complex. Madam President, our government agreement is clear on all these universal and European legal texts, whatever the difficulty inherent in their drafting. As I recall, the Government is committed to participating actively and constructively in the negotiations on the future United Nations convention on business and human rights. The government will play a leading role in the development of a European legislative framework on due diligence. To the extent possible, a national support framework will be implemented to this end. This position was reaffirmed by our Foreign Minister when we had our general policy discussions. She highlighted the following: firstly, in recent years Belgium has been at the forefront of a European position in this field. I am pleased that the initiators of this motion for a resolution have also raised it; secondly, the European Union is speaking on our behalf during the negotiations on a legally binding instrument in Geneva; thirdly, this treaty is not yet finalized and a new round of negotiations will therefore be planned this year; fourthly, Belgium actively and ardently supports Didier Reynders' initiative. Its objective and conditions are as follows: to continue to build a multinational framework and develop a level playing field there; to pay particular attention to the development of SMEs; to ensure that regulation is supportive of those already in force. So this is for the practical aspects of this question! This motion for a resolution is therefore intended to encourage the government to maintain such a pragmatic, realistic and voluntary position. The MR Group is open to discussion with a view to a national legislative framework that would be consistent with the content of a national business and human rights action plan. In our view, a first step would be to assess its implementation and the concrete results it would achieve. It is on the basis of these conclusions that we could then ask the government, in cooperation with the federated entities, to develop a national support framework – as called for, moreover, the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the PVDA naturally supports this resolution. It is committed to the conclusion of a treaty which will also oblige companies to respect human rights effectively in addition to States. That treaty will tackle a huge problem that permeates our economy from below to above. This is how we eat chocolate produced by child slaves worldwide in Côte d'Ivoire. We often wear unconscious clothes that are sewn by underpaid and overworked workers in inhumane working conditions in Bangladesh. We use products containing palm oil and soya for which large-scale, illegal deforestation takes place that destroys biodiversity and drives hundreds of thousands of people off their soil to slums in the cities of Indonesia and South America. The list is endless and depressing. In the United States, companies benefit from private prisons where they sell slave labour to other private companies such as Google, Microsoft and Walmart. Companies like AXA, Airbnb and Booking.com do business with Israeli colonies in occupied Palestinian territory. The list is endless. It is a dangerous illusion that we as an individual consumer have the power to change something meaningful. In capitalism, shareholders and investors have a lot of power and their only goal is to maximize turnover, profits and dividends at the expense of people, environment and climate. This, of course, also creates inequality, both within and between countries. This inequality is increasing. Of course, companies will never regulate themselves. This goes against the main objective of maximizing profits at any price. Regional, national and supranational authorities must therefore intervene in order to do so. It is high time that organisations that are in private hands, but often have far more power than the states in which they operate, were forced to respect human rights. This United Nations initiative is certainly a step in the right direction. We therefore fully support this resolution. We must, of course, ensure that we do not undermine the Convention by also concluding trade agreements allowing the same companies to initiate proceedings against states through out-of-state courts because those states do want to comply with those human rights, the so-called ISDS circuits, Investor-State Dispute Settlements. This will enable public authorities to be successfully charged with loss of profits, precisely because those states want to fulfil those obligations and those international conventions and treaties. As I said, you can count on our support for this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u75	Madam President, I believe that colleagues have already given ample illustration of what this resolution is about. In short, in some countries multinationals abuse the weakness of governments to exploit workers, expropriate countries, expel people from their homes and ignore fundamental human rights. PVDA's colleague has just given a number of examples. Often the victims cannot resist because there is no effective legal system or because they simply do not have the financial resources. Not only the workers of the companies or the inhabitants of the countries concerned are potential victims, but also the companies which are in good faith. They too are the victims if no rules are laid down regarding compliance with a minimum of standards and rights and therefore there is no level playing field between companies. This level playing field for companies is important, because how can we advocate it in the framework of trade and investment agreements, as in the context of the agreement with the United Kingdom, but at the same time say in general terms that it is not important? It's an en-en-story. The current UN treaty rules are not sufficient because countries are currently not obliged to introduce regulations that prevent companies established in their country from committing crimes abroad. That is why we need a binding UN convention. To clarify, the UN Convention, if it were to come into force, lays down preventive measures for States that are willing to accede to that binding UN Convention and lays down rules on the application of a duty of care by States, lays down preventive measures for States to prevent human rights violations and lays down a way in which access to justice is guaranteed. Because the current UN treaty rules are not enough and because human rights violations continue in some countries, our group believes that Belgium should actively engage in negotiations on the future UN Convention on Business and Human Rights. That is why our group has co-signed the resolution before us today. The resolution asks the federal government for three things: the recognition of the need for a legally binding instrument at multilateral level, the commitment to these negotiations, and in particular the definition of a Belgian position, in consultation with the Länder and civil society, on the texts before us at UN level. The latter is in the third point. So we are not asking the federal government to approve anything. The problem, however, is that Belgium has so far been on the sidelines in the negotiations and has not been sufficiently active in the talks. This also means that we do not defend our interests as a country, nor our values. Following the adoption of the present resolution, Belgian diplomacy does have a mandate to act on the basis of the Belgian position which is further defined in Belgium through the specific channels, including the Länder. By the way, we are already doing this, particularly in the context of Belgium's contribution to a European public consultation on this subject. Colleagues have already indicated that this is not only being discussed at multilateral level, because a proposal for European legislation on human rights and business is also being prepared at European level. In this respect, we are also faced with a choice. European regulation will be developed and we have a choice to wait until we have to implement or implement it, or to opt for an active defence of our values and our interests at European level. Since this is also an initiative of our own Belgian Commissioner, I think it is important to take a leading role so that we are not the laggard but the leader in this area. That is why my group supports this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u76	What a consensus today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u77	Madam President, with my group, I welcome the adoption – which will undoubtedly take place earlier in this House – of this resolution, which aims to encourage Belgium's active participation in the drafting of a binding international treaty on business and human rights. As many colleagues have said, the discussion on this draft resolution began a number of years ago, in 2014, and has been dragging. The boost that has been given is, of course, welcome. It is now clear that the times in the world are not necessarily for the promotion of human rights, including and especially in the area of economic activities. Economic forms of slavery such as forced labour, unacceptably healthy labour or child labour, for example, still unfortunately have good days ahead in many countries. Such a treaty is therefore indispensable. It is good for human rights. It is good for the dignity of every human being who contributes to the prosperity of the international community. It is also good for companies that are already making efforts to respect human rights. Moreover, it allows – it is important – to create a level playing field between companies, and thus a priori to better protect those who are concerned with human rights. We also welcome the efforts made by Commissioner Reynders – several colleagues have already mentioned this – to ensure due diligence in respect of fundamental freedoms within the European Union. As a member of the opposition, however, I have a small regret. This resolution sometimes breaks down a few open doors. It is about implementing the government agreement, developing a common position of Belgium to send to the UN rapporteur by February so that it is taken into account in the continuation of the negotiation process. It is to be hoped that a resolution will not be necessary every time a government agreement is needed, otherwise perhaps we will be a little congested! That said, it is understandable that this resolution goes a little further. But she could have gone even further. It could have envisaged a role for Belgium not only as a subsidiary, not only within the European framework and within the international framework, by proposing a Belgian law, like France, Germany or Switzerland, to strengthen the duty of vigilance of our companies. If I mention this point, it is because, as several colleagues have mentioned, Minister Dermagne has stated in particular that the government agreement did not contain any specific reference to a Belgian law on the duty of vigilance, but that a Belgian law was not excluded. Mr. Dermagne said he was available to Parliament to discuss a national due diligence framework. I really think, ladies and gentlemen, that is what needs to be done now. My group and I are ready to participate in an effort to ensure that there is a Belgian law. This should have been mentioned also in this resolution, which does not mention it. I believe, like others, that this is a step in the right direction, but that we can go even further. You will certainly be able to count on me so that we can act at the national level as some of our neighbouring countries have already done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u78	[[Madam President, I have heard Mr Dallemagne's proposal.]] I do not know if he has been attentive to my speech, but I have just announced the tabling of a bill to that effect, drawing in particular on foreign examples. A text is therefore being tabled and will be submitted to the members of the Committee on the Economy in the coming weeks. I therefore commit myself to continuing this fight with all the progressive forces of this Parliament and the others, if we can convince them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u79	I congratulate the honourable Member on his initiative, but I would have been more reassured if this initiative had been mentioned in the text of the resolution. I am somewhat concerned that this is an initiative of a political party but does not seem to be supported in a resolution submitted by the majority. I take note of this initiative, but I would have liked the resolution to go further today, now, in such a way as to reassure you that we will indeed be able to move forward and that it will not be merely an announcement but a text voted on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue with this logic of consensus! My group is indeed fully committed to this motion for a resolution before us this afternoon, as it aims to engage the Belgian authorities in a process of active participation in the negotiations of the future United Nations convention on business and human rights. Indeed, like international trade, which must become more of a lever for sustainable development, it is up to us to do everything possible to ensure that transnational and multinational firms are at last more respectful of human rights and the environment. The basis for the future international treaty in this area, which would be binding, was introduced to the United Nations Human Rights Council in 2014. Tomorrow, this text will make transnational companies responsible for human rights violations and environmental destruction throughout the supply chain. This will provide a legal remedy for victims of multinational human rights practices and will ensure that they respect social and environmental standards. The work on the adoption of this binding international treaty remains long and complex, but underlines the essential evolution towards an awareness of economic actors in favour of respect for human and environmental rights at the beginning of the twenty-first century. It is pleased that our country is firmly engaged in this process of strengthening democratic standards and human rights at the international level – a process that does not intend to be an instrument of generous recommendations, but rather a legally binding tool. This duty of corporate vigilance and diligence, to which the European Union intends to devote a legislative framework, constitutes progress transcending ideologies which, hopefully, will reduce inequalities and improve the plight of populations facing abuses by transnational firms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, you know how much I care about this motion for a resolution. I have to tell you, I'm pretty proud of it. Indeed, the work in committee has made it possible to strengthen the text, with no fewer than 17 amendments adopted. It is a resolution that will send a very strong signal, not only to the European Union, but also to the United Nations, just as it will be a signal in favour of a national framework on the duty of vigilance. First, I'll make a small preliminary remark. It is important to remember that the majority of private companies and multinationals obviously respect basic ethical standards, human rights and the most basic environmental standards. But what's the problem? The problem is that a small minority, an exception, some private companies and some multinationals take advantage of ever-longer and more complex supply chains, and take advantage of some countries where there is no judicial system in place, in order to avoid any protection of human rights. These companies are now taking advantage of the system and are actually undermining the majority of private companies that respect the highest standards of human rights. Some examples are well known. You remember the collapse of the Rana Plaza, a multi-storey building that housed dozens of clothing workshops, which killed more than 1,100 people in 2013. I am also thinking of textile companies that continue to use forced labour, slavery systems, especially in the Xinjiang province where the Uighur minority is persecuted by the central Chinese government. I am thinking of some multinationals that continue to import palm oil and thus contribute to deforestation, for example in the Philippines. It is ultimately these unfair practices, the most serious violations of human, social and environmental rights that we want to combat very concretely through a European and international legal framework on the duty of corporate vigilance. As Mr Dallemagne pointed out, this process has been going on for a long time at the United Nations. It started in June 2014. It is really important to put the double bites and finally move forward. This text says something very important. While it is impossible for the European Union to reach an agreement and a very clear mandate to support the discussions in Geneva on this treaty on business and human rights, Belgium will explicitly support – if necessary individually, but if possible with an ad hoc coalition of Member States – these negotiations for a binding treaty on business and human rights. Indeed, what is the purpose of this treaty? It serves to avoid less telling legislation from a few states that would, in a way, be dumping human rights. At European level, I think it is important to stress this, Commissioner Didier Reynders, whom we met a few weeks ago in the Committee of Opinion on the European Union, committed to launching a European directive on the duty of vigilance. As we know, France has already moved forward. Frankly, I think she could have gone even further, but the framework exists and it's happy. Germany has also advanced. Britain has adopted the so-called Modern Slavery Act and recently – this week – bans all products from the forced labour of the Uighurs in China, which I was talking about. There is legislation in the Netherlands against child labour in supply chains. I believe it is important to be able to take this train in Belgium too and to act at our level in favour of a much stronger regulatory framework, also for private companies. Indeed, it is not normal that globalization has turned into a kind of pyramid of irresponsibility. This is neither logical nor legitimate. We had to be able to say it very clearly, loud and clear, and that is what we are doing today through this resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that there will be a large number of us today voting in favour of this text to send a very strong signal not only to the European Union but also to the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u82	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u83	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Christophe Lacroix, Patrick Prévot, Karin Jiroflée, Vicky Reynaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u84	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. This is not (Rgt 85, 4) (467/4) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (467/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u85	Madam Chair, I refer to my written report. You didn't see me because I wasn't in my place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u86	Madam President, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in which I sit for our Assembly and where I am, at this very moment, rapporteur on the issue of discrimination against LGBTQI in the South Caucasus, has just tabled an overwhelming report. In this region, which brings together Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia, the population seems particularly hostile to the acceptance of LGBTQI people. According to the latest current survey, 60% of respondents had a negative opinion about them and more than one in two, or 52%, also felt that homosexuality was an innate disease. According to a study conducted by the non-governmental organization Nafas LGBT, "more than half of the respondents believe that homosexuality is the result of a disease and 28% believe that it is a personal choice". It is essential, through this motion for a resolution and through our daily parliamentary work, to recall the importance of combating any form of direct or indirect discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, gender or sexual rights, as conservative forces everywhere try to weaken and deny these fundamental rights. Full respect for human rights is never achieved and remains an everyday struggle. This work must therefore be carried out both within our country and in all the countries making up the European Union and the Council of Europe as an intergovernmental organisation, a global pioneer in the field of human rights and a guardian of them. This will therefore be done through independent monitoring mechanisms which assess respect for human rights and democratic practices on the territory of the Member States of the European Union and the Council of Europe in a binding manner. It is in particular for this purpose that I have requested the hearing of the European Commission, so that it can present its first report on the rule of law in each of the 27 Member States and the hearing of the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights. While the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe has not yet come to the Committee on External Relations to present the state of law and human dignity in the member countries of the Council of Europe, it is nevertheless true that the Commissioner for Justice of the European Commission, Didier Reynders, came at the end of December to present the fruit of his work, because, to every lord, he was one of the pioneers of this request for peer review of the rule of law in the member countries of the European Union. In this debate, we were very pleased to see the determined way in which former Deputy Prime Minister Didier Reynders seized this matter and how important the accuracy of his report is. During the debate with him, we were able to have rich and productive exchanges. The text of the resolution is topical and is perpetual, since it reminds us once again that while legal advances in favour of LGBTQI people are essential and must continue throughout the Member States, we must also ensure that these advances translate into real social equality in everyday life. Moving forward through the law is good. But moving forward on a daily basis in the emancipation of the collective consciences of each individual and of a society is even better. However, it is well known that, in the area of homosexuality, in some Member States of the European Union, until the 1980s, there were persecutions and criminal proceedings against LGBTQI people, but also that, until 1990, homosexuality was still considered a mental illness by the World Health Organisation. As a result, it has only been 30 years since this standard was amended and changed. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the happy and recent initiative of the European Union, in particular the European Commission, which unveiled its first plan to combat the hatred of LGBT people. We are also seeing worrying trends in some Member States, particularly in Poland, where areas without LGBT ideology have been decreed in some cities, and where pro-LGBTQI protesters have been arrested. According to a 2019 study by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity is increasing in the European Union: 43% of LGBT people say they feel discriminated against, compared to 37% in 2012. If I may, I will return for a moment to the worrying statements of the Polish President who, during his election campaign, declared that he had signed a charter for the family aimed, among other things, at defending the institution of marriage as the union of a man and a woman and protecting children – mean: protecting them from homosexuals and LGBTQI people – by prohibiting the spread of LGBTQI ideology in public institutions. It is quite catastrophic to note that, in a Member State of the European Union, a President of the Republic who is supposed to embody the State, and therefore all his fellow citizens and fellow citizens, still allows himself to make openly homophobic statements, of unheard of violence, and for which Vera Jourová, the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights, responsible for respecting values such as fundamental rights and the rule of law, replied to the MEPs at a hearing, "to find sad that, in Europe today, senior politicians decide to target minorities in order to achieve political gains". The reading of this President's words can indeed give us a real nausea! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will end by saying that we rarely talk about love in this House. We rarely talk about love because love is probably not the vector that unites us here. We can have affinities, sympathies for one or the other, antipathies too. I will not go so far as to say that we can have hatred of a parliamentarian. As far as I'm concerned, I don't hate anyone. Sometimes I feel resentment, sometimes anger when I hear some words, Madam President, but never hatred. We are here in the temple of respect and dignity. It is in any case in this way that I consider parliamentary work to be growing. But we rarely talk about love, if ever. Now, when a man looks at another man or when a woman looks at another woman, it is simply because he loves him or because he loves him, because he wants him or because he wants him, because that person is, at that moment, the most important person in his eyes. I mean: the person with whom she wants to establish a home and, perhaps, to welcome children, and thus spread all around her petals of happiness and love, inclusion and universalism. Through this text, in all its lines, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is the word "love" which must be read and which must guide with intensity all the struggles that we wage to ensure that all human beings – regardless of their sexual orientation – flourish with grace, dignity and freedom. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u87	It will be very difficult to surpass Mr Lacroix. I'm impressed by his passionate speech. In any case, the Labour Party also supports this motion for a resolution. The rights of the LGBTQIs were also enshrined in the self-explained enlightened Europe only very recently and have not yet been acquired and unanimously accepted in society, nor in Western Europe nor even in our country. Violent incidents are also taking place here with the regularity of the clock; here too, discrimination has certainly not disappeared. We are therefore pleased that the preamble to the proposal refers explicitly to France and that it specifically calls for Belgium and the regions to keep a constant watch over legislation and to take the warnings of the Council of Europe seriously and, if necessary, make legal adjustments. Unfortunately, the LGBTQI rights are also too often used in Parliament to distribute hardly disguised Islamophobia and racist sneaks to non-European states and populations and to present Europe and Belgium implicitly or explicitly as superior exponents of enlightened values and standards. However, the motion for a resolution acknowledges that this is unfortunately a damaging illusion, which diverts attention from the raw fact that there is still a great deal of work to be done in Belgium and in Europe too. We therefore wholeheartedly support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in Chechnya LGBTQI are dealing with extreme repression and violence. In Istanbul, gayprides were repeatedly banned. In Kiev, extreme right-wing movements threatened a massacre during a gay pride. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, the first gay pride was welcomed with indulgences and threats of violence. In Azerbaijan, LGBTQIs are subject to serious discrimination. In Poland and Hungary, conservative governments declare the LGBTQI community an enemy of traditional society. These examples, all of them from the past year and all of them from Member States of the Council of Europe, demonstrate the importance of a sustained fight against any form of discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender or sexual rights. All over the world, including within the Member States of the European Union and the Council of Europe, but also in our country, people are trying to deny these fundamental rights. Every day there are voices to deprive people who are otherwise grounded of their rights to marry or to have children, not to treat those people as equal, not to accept them. Every day people are attacked because of their orientation and sometimes they are dealt with by violence. In our country too, people are simply beaten up on the streets because they are grounded differently. This is completely unacceptable to most parties and most people in this Half-Round. The non-discrimination of LGBTQI is a fundamental part of our policy. Consequently, it must be a fundamental part of our Belgian foreign policy. Given the evolution I have just outlined, it is also necessary to be proactive. That is precisely what the resolution of the PS colleagues, whom we have signed with, is working on, this proactivity within the Council of Europe, where we must also call for the adoption of a control mechanism to combat homophobic and transphobic hate speech. That is why our group supports this resolution. That's why we co-signed them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u89	Madam President, I would like to say that my group will support this resolution. One can only be concerned, indeed, at the evolution of the human rights situation with regard to LGBTQI people in certain Council of Europe member countries. The situation is worsening in many countries in this regard. We are thinking of Poland, with its "LGBT free zones", and of other homophobic mechanisms and declarations of the politicians of this country, whom Brother Lacroix recalled. Of course we are also thinking about Russia, Turkey, Azerbaijan. Many cases have been recalled in a number of countries and in our own country, indeed, we are surprised and shocked that there are still homophobic attacks. Combating such discrimination must undoubtedly be a priority in the coming years. This will not be easy, because prejudices remain important and numerous. It would be appropriate to be able to hear regularly from the Government, here, on the state of progress in Belgium's efforts to preserve these rights and to strengthen the fight against discrimination against these people. Our group will pay particular attention to this issue. We wanted to congratulate Mr Lacroix on his initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, for several years, as has been said, Europe has been facing a growing, insidious evil that is interfering at all levels of our society to the very heart of our democracy in our Parliament. Of course, I want to talk about intolerance. This intolerance affects on a daily basis those who have characteristics that some consider so different from themselves or from their conception of society that they would justify cruel and inhuman treatment, a society that is on its own and ultimately prefers to designate scapegoats rather than to offer everyone and everyone respect, dignity and the same opportunities for emancipation. The Socialist colleagues' proposal rightly reminds us of that. Europe, or at least part of Europe, is closing on itself. We must act to reverse this dynamic, to defend an inclusive society where everyone has the right to live his love – Mr.Lacroix referred to it with a certain eloquence – but also his sexuality, freely, without coercion or fear. Some European states have, in fact, embarked on vast campaigns to stigmatize the LGBT community. I regret that these countries such as Poland and Hungary, which are so dear to my heart, today embrace the path of conservatism, hatred, xenophobia, homophobia, transphobia or misogyny. The edifying Polish anti-LGBT zones are now contaminating Hungary, which severely restricts the rights of its LGBT citizens to the point of providing very recently in its Constitution that marriage can only take place between a man and a woman. Recent news, however, shows us how much these actions actually hide only a vast hypocrisy. They are, of course, not the only ones, and the authors of this proposal rightly stress this. Indeed, several States Parties to the Council of Europe, an international forum based on respect for human dignity, acceptance of the other and diversity, repeatedly violate these fundamental principles. As has been said, Russia, Turkey, several states today legitimize homophobia in both the private and public sectors. These States deprive many victims of their right to a fair trial, security, freedom of expression, private and family life. We can only illustrate this better by the placement of Kadyrov, who was protected by Vladimir Putin, at the head of Chechnya, whose objective he has never hidden is the pure and simple eradication of gays. That's all! While these homophobic attacks are carried out in some states, at the highest level, they are carried out in an individual but equally serious manner in our neighbouring countries and even in Belgium. UNIA again presented to us yesterday its recent evaluation report on anti-discrimination laws and it emerged that in 2019, UNIA reported an upsurge in harassment and discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender in Belgium. For example, 133 files were opened, for 84 in 2017 and 125 in 2018. Although ILGA-Europe considers Belgium to be one of the most LGBT friendly countries in Europe, alongside Luxembourg, it is essential to continue to promote these values in our country, but also beyond our borders. It is equally important to do so, as the proposal states, in consultation with civil society. Let us not forget that alongside these retrograde governments, there are more and more associations and young people who dare to stand up against these governments. Our anger must therefore be transformed into strength and support for them. That is the meaning of this motion for a resolution, which my group is looking forward to supporting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u91	Madam President, according to the adage, "which does not say a word of consent", but I would be remiss if I did not say a few words about the resolution of my colleague Christophe Lacroix. There is little to add to this testimony of sincere work within the Council of Europe. I know, Mr Lacroix, that you are ardently defending many subjects, but certainly also those relating to human rights. For my part, I have always been a fan of equal rights and no special rights. I believe that the principle of equality should involve the equal treatment of all men and women. It must be noted that in Europe, too, we are far from it. Although many rights have been acquired in the past, although many battles have been fought, there are new dangers in the countries of Eastern Europe, Central Europe and even in our own country. That is why this resolution not only has its full meaning, but deserves support. It goes without saying that the MR Group will support her ardently.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u92	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u93	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Goodie Liekens, Marianne Verhaert, Vicky Reynaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u94	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1588/4) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1588/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u95	I refer to my written report, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u96	Madam President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Goede Liekens. I don't know if she's listening to us today, but I'd really like to send her our best wishes from our assembly and wish her a lot of love and well-being. Ladies and gentlemen, this text is indeed important and I sincerely thank the first signatories for this because I believe that we cannot remain passive in the face of the increasingly frequent attacks by some partner states, sometimes even Member States of the European Convention on Human Rights, but also of the European Union. I am thinking in particular of Poland and Turkey, which have very recently indicated their intention to decline in the protection of women's rights. The Istanbul Convention was adopted in 2011, signed by 47 European countries. The treaty is simply intended, legitimately, to prevent, prosecute and eliminate violence against women and to protect the rights of victims. And madness, because it is frankly a pure madness, is that some states would now want to go back and eliminate this protection of women's rights. However, ladies and gentlemen, this international treaty in force today is more relevant than ever. All the online statistics, which I have consulted again to prepare my speech, are exploding. It's dramatic! I have noted an outbreak of rape, an increase in disappearances and a 30 per cent increase in domestic violence in Cyprus and France. Calls for aid are exploding both in Flanders and Brussels and in Wallonia. Today, the home has become the most dangerous place for women. It is therefore important that we, as parliamentarians and representatives of the nation, can affirm today that leaving this convention would be a huge step backwards. That would be pathetic. That would be pitiful. That would be ridiculous. Poland is gradually becoming a hell for women. Turkey is apparently in the process of becoming so too, and we must explicitly reject it through this message and signal that we are going to send this evening by voting on this text by Mr Goedele Liekens. Last but not least, it is a wish that I should like to make: the European Union has yet to ratify this text. I think it's very important. It is also explicitly written in the resolution. I think that's one of the last requests. We call on the European Union to sign and ratify the Istanbul Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u97	Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor on this issue as important as the previous ones, especially since it concerns violence against the most important part of our society, that is, women. They are in fact the majority compared to men, who often subject them to violence, including domestic violence. I talked about love earlier, I'll talk about the sun, if you don't mind. I feel lyrical today. I will speak of the sun because, through Goedele Liekens, our colleague who is at the initiative of this text, it is each time a ray of sunshine that we have in committee and in plenary. I don't know why, but this woman, since I met her, has touched me with her grace, dignity, smile and humor. In addition to his work, these are really significant elements. Goedele, courage in the trial you live! We think about you very often and we're at your side. Let's land on the text. The Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, which we all call, in our jargon, the Istanbul Convention, is now being called into question by various States, as Mr Cogolati mentioned: in particular Turkey, Poland, but also Hungary. Hungary is expected to lead the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe in May 2021. This is, however, rather paradoxical, although it seems to call into question this convention which was signed in Istanbul. It's paradoxical, you see. It is an ironic return, but completely abominable, of history. This is a very worrying situation, as this Convention is the first and, so far, the main legally binding instrument providing a comprehensive legal framework to combat violence against women and domestic violence. This Convention makes it possible to increase the various areas of prevention, protection and support, substantive law, procedural law, immigration, but also international cooperation in this fight. The fight against violence against women must be given priority in terms of public action, as it affects all women, but also because such violence has an impact on society as a whole in various fields, be it health, social or economic. I will give you some updated figures from Amnesty International. The number of femicides observed in Belgium in 2020 is 17. In addition, 17.47 per cent of Belgians were reported victims of sexual violence and 53 per cent of rapes were reported to have been discontinued. Between early 2017 and the end of 2019, 105 femicides left at least 67 orphaned children, and 11 children were murdered in a context of domestic violence. One in three women in the world face physical or sexual violence, mainly from an intimate partner. The number of girls and women who experienced sexual or physical violence from an intimate partner in 2020 is 243 million worldwide. Of these, underage children account for almost 50%. One in eight countries has implemented measures to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on women and girls, according to UN Women. At the same time, new forms of violence are emerging and recognized, such as gynaecological and obstetrical violence, revenge porn and cyber-harassment. According to Amnesty International, 3.56% of Belgians are aware of at least one person who has suffered serious sexual violence, a violation of fundamental rights which is very insufficiently reported, as a result of prejudice and social stigma. Finally, a study carried out by the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp indicates that just over 48,000 women and girls whose nationality is that of a country where female circumcision is practised lived in our country as at 31 December 2012. Of these, slightly more than 13,000 were considered to have been excised and slightly more than 4,000 were considered to be potentially at risk of excision. In addition, some 500,000 women in the European Union are said to have undergone female genital mutilation. There is obviously no shortage of initiatives in Belgium, since an interministerial conference on women's rights was set up in February 2020 to coordinate policies in this regard. At the intra-French level – I have no doubt that this is also the case at Flemish level – a plan to combat violence against women was adopted on 26 November by the three governments of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, the COCOF and the Walloon Region. Strong responses are foreseen in this regard. In conclusion, it can be pointed out that through this resolution, our Assembly confirms its unwavering support for the Istanbul Convention, which remains the most comprehensive and advanced international legal instrument for preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. The Istanbul Convention effectively sets high standards and adopts a comprehensive approach, focusing on prevention, victim protection and prosecution of perpetrators, and integrated policies. It places the rights of the victim at the heart of all measures taken and implemented. It also promotes gender equality and the fight against gender stereotypes. It is what can be called a form of gold standard for the United Nations, which uses it as a reference standard for its international work. To date, the Istanbul Convention has been ratified by 34 Council of Europe member states and signed by 11 other states as well as by the European Union. Monitoring of the implementation of the Istanbul Convention is carried out by the Group of Experts on Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, known as GREVIO. The Council of Europe recalled – it is therefore important for our Parliament to look at this resolution and the vote today – that the involvement of national parliaments in the follow-up is provided for in Article 70 of the Istanbul Convention at national level. It is therefore important that we join the Council of Europe in pursuing this important fight. Unfortunately, the Istanbul Convention is often misrepresented by its opponents as an attack on family values or as the promotion of hidden objectives. These misconceptions and deliberately misleading interpretations for political purposes undermine the added value and high potential, as well as the considerable results achieved in recent years by its application. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude my contribution to this important debate by affirming with conviction, determination and passion that violence against women is a crime. This is one of the most widespread human rights violations, the most unworthy, the most abject, a form of gender-based discrimination and a manifestation of deep-rooted inequality between women and men. It occurs regardless of the social status of the perpetrator or victim. Moreover, no country is spared this scourge. Violence against women cannot be justified or normalized under any pretext. It is our imperative duty and the highest moral value to support this text. [[Applause from the European Democratic Group]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u98	Mevrouw de voorzitster, colleagues, Goedele – if you look at us – thank you very much for this important initiative! It seems to me very useful to place at the centre of the discussions a current topic, essential and burning, given the evolution of some Member States of the European Union with regard to the Istanbul Convention, as well as countries that have initially ratified it and are now holding back from it. For this reason, I hope that the Liekens motion for a resolution will receive strong support. In any case, it will receive that of the MR group. One of the first objectives of Belgian foreign policy is the issue of human rights – and we have talked about it a lot this afternoon. While progress still needs to be made in our country, we are nevertheless among the good students in the fight against violence against women. It must therefore play an active role in that regard and use bilateral and multilateral channels to ensure that States evolve together in that regard. As I said, some members of the Council of Europe have still not ratified the Convention – Bulgaria, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia and even the United Kingdom. We must therefore urge these countries to do so without delay and remind them that any violence against women is contrary to the values enshrined in Article 2 of the Treaty of the European Union on which the Union is founded. We must also recall that, unfortunately, the European Union has not yet ratified this Convention, and despite the European Parliament's insistence on doing so, some Member States are still struggling to ratify it. Let us also mention Poland, which had originally issued its ratification and accession to this Convention, and which is now thinking of withdrawing its signature – it is serious. Think also of Turkey, it was recalled earlier – where the ongoing reflections aimed at returning to some of the achievements of this Istanbul Convention must alert us. One last element in order not to prolong the debates, Madam President, since many things have been said, but we are obviously waiting – as always in the resolutions, moreover – for concrete actions and we also urge all those who are in a position to give at some point more weight, more vigour to what should be the protection of women and also the fight against violence against women. We urge them to be very willing to do so. For it is true that the covid crisis has shown that there is violence, a significant increase in domestic violence and that there is also a need to raise awareness – including among the states that have signed this convention – of those responsible to continue to fight this scourge, to really inform and communicate adequately that no woman has to be subjected to violence in our country, but also in our liberal democracies and that equality must be ensured, including in these areas, I would remind you. We will also recall that violence against women has an impact on the suffering of victims. The consequences in socio-economic terms, for example, are also important indicators. All these elements, Madam President, obviously lead me to tell you that we will support this resolution with great will and that we will, of course, also ensure the practical implementation of the measures that could be taken to – I would remind you – combat this scourge of violence against women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u99	Madam President, the Labour Party naturally shares the concerns expressed by the present motion for a resolution. We are concerned about the way in which the important convention referred to is being countered and undermined by a number of states outside and, above all, in Europe. Violence against women, including femicide, is taking on enormous proportions worldwide. It is almost endemic in every culture and unfortunately also in our country. International conventions and national legislation alone cannot, of course, stop the pandemic of violence. It is equally important that, in addition to the sometimes rather abstract condemnations of violence against women in the convention, its text should also be translated into concrete policy. The legislation that combats and punishes this form of violence must not, of course, remain a dead letter. That is why we will also keep the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity in her promise to draw up a national action plan to combat gender-based violence in the coming year. In doing so, the recommendations of GREVIO, the body that also monitors compliance with the Istanbul Convention in Belgium, should be implemented and sufficient resources should be made available to do so. Economic violence is often at the root of partner violence, or at least increases the risk of it, an element which was lacking in previous speakers' statements. This economic violence is mainly reflected in the pay and pension gap and in the unequal distribution of paid and unpaid labour. This will usually make women more dependent on their partner, making them more vulnerable to partner violence. These underlying issues also need to be addressed. Of course, the Istanbul Convention is not a panacea, but it is an essential part of the solution. Its signature and ratification are therefore absolutely minimum requirements and we will therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, many of you have already addressed Goedele Liekens. That is right, because Goedele, as we know her, brought this resolution forward with great enthusiasm and enthusiasm. Dear Goede, I know this theme is very close to your heart. Of course, I would also like to explain this topic, but I especially hope that you can be back here soon, because we miss your smile and enthusiasm. Ladies and gentlemen, all over the world, people are forced home because containment measures are needed. It is still the only way at present to minimise the damage caused by the current covid pandemic. After this dark and difficult period, fortunately, there is finally light at the end of the tunnel. Unfortunately, home is not a safe place for everyone. Many victims of domestic violence are in isolation in a dangerous environment, locked up with those who abuse them, without escape and without or with very limited access to emergency services. Figures show that, since the outbreak of the coronavirus, violence against women and children, especially domestic violence, has increased enormously. In our country last year it was even about an increase of more than 70%. Since the start of the pandemic, the World Health Organisation noted an increase of 60% in emergency calls from female victims of domestic violence in Europe. Many states have therefore started to work and have recently brought their legislation on sexual violence even more into line with the guidelines of the Istanbul Convention. With this convention, states commit themselves to tackle and prevent violence against women and domestic violence in all its forms, to protect victims and prosecute perpetrators. At present, it is therefore the most important international legally binding instrument in the fight against sexual violence. The various positive efforts made in Europe over the last few months are in stark contrast to many negative developments. Just now, Poland and Turkey have announced their intention to withdraw from the Istanbul Convention. In addition, Bulgaria, Slovakia and Hungary are putting an end to the ratification process of the Convention. That countries, in this case for the majority of EU Member States, are avoiding this in these difficult times, is a disgrace. The fact that countries use the pandemic as an excuse to reverse the progress made in women's rights in recent decades is an even greater disgrace. Europe must be one block against the elimination of this kind of violence. Through this resolution, we call on the Turkish and Polish authorities not to withdraw from the Treaty, we call on the European Union to ratify and, last but not least, on other EU Member States which have signed, but which have not yet ratified, to ratify. Now more than ever, victims of sexual and domestic violence need our support. It is a duty for all signatories to this Convention to give them this support. Signing a paper is too easy, now it's time for action. Thank you all for the extensive support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with an understatement, I could say that it does not look as good when it comes to violence against women. The situation is also worrying in Belgium. The previous speakers have just quoted the figures. At least one woman in four has already been the victim of partner violence. I repeat, one in four. For many women, violence is therefore the frightening reality on a daily basis. We have not even talked about femicide or the murder of women. Femicide is demanding more victims than terrorism in our country. It'll be your own daughter, but she'll be raped. It'll just be your own mommy getting beat up. The problem is not only in Belgium but also in other countries. The Istanbul Convention is therefore a very important instrument. It is a Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights, but it is also the first European instrument to impose mandatory rules specifically designed to prevent gender-based violence, protect victims of violence and punish perpetrators. The States that have co-signed the Convention agree to take measures to prevent such violence and to protect the victims. They also agree that crimes against women are punishable. The evolutions that are emerging are therefore worrying. Poland and Turkey want to get out of the treaty. Other Eastern European Member States, such as Hungary, have not yet ratified the Convention. The fact that they are questioning the content of the Treaty, although these are matters which should not even be controversial, is worrying. That is why the resolution before us is important, for which I would like to thank Mrs Goedele Liekens. Because certain Member States of the European Union oppose the Convention, ratification of the Convention as a whole has not yet been settled. The European Commission considers the accession of the European Union and the Istanbul Convention to be an important priority. However, it is also aware that the accession of the European Union to the Council of Europe will continue to be blocked, partly because certain Member States are blocking it. The European Commission will therefore come forward with new proposals as part of its work programme 2021. It will itself come forward with proposals at European Union level to combat gender-based violence. Those proposals will be launched in the fourth quarter of 2021. The amendments I tabled to the resolution before us are therefore intended to support the European Commission's proposals in principle. It is therefore a proposal to extend the list of so-called Euro-crimes to specific forms of gender-based violence and to propose additional measures by the European Commission to prevent and combat specific forms of gender-based violence, including sexual harassment, abuse of women and female genital mutilation. We have included in the resolution that we will support the future proposals in principle. This does not mean that we should support the content of these proposals no matter what, but it is about the principle that we should also regulate them at European level because we are not sure that the Istanbul Convention will be implemented throughout Europe. That is why we have tabled these amendments. Our group supports this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u102	Madam President, like many colleagues, I would like to have a very special thought for the first author of this resolution, Mrs Goedele Liekens. On behalf of my group, I wish her much courage in her fight for the time being. I would like to say how much this resolution sounds today as an alarm signal. The announced withdrawal of some States from one of the few binding international legal instruments to combat specific violence against women is obviously shocking, at a time when such violence is growing all over the world, owing in particular to the constraints resulting from confinement. Among others, two important members of the Council of Europe, Poland and Turkey, announced suddenly, last July, their willingness to withdraw from this convention. Others have still not ratified it or no longer wish to do so. This is unacceptable! Thanks to this resolution – I hope, in any case – Belgium stands alongside the women of these countries, those who have suffered or might suffer from violence, but also those who are afraid, to tell them that we do not accept the setbacks in their countries and in all countries in the fight against the specific violence that women suffer because of their gender. I would also like to say a few words about Turkey, which we are talking about at the moment. The signal given is particularly disturbing and symptomatic of the human rights situation in this State. Indeed, it is worrying to note that this country, which was the originator of this Convention ten years ago, which welcomed the Member States which wished to bring the latter, which was its first signatory, to a successful conclusion, could now be the first country to withdraw from it. This is one of several indicators of Turkey's tremendous backwards in terms of human rights. Under the threat of European sanctions, President Erdogan said he wished to reconcile with Europe. I'm asking him to do something. An announcement by his Ambassador in Brussels that he heard the voice of the Belgian Parliament today and that he would give up coming out of the Istanbul Convention would be a first step.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said, but unfortunately we will never say enough, violence against women is a societal scourge. It is a scourge that affects all segments of society, all generations, all regions of the country and the world. It is a scourge that has been in our work ever since the beginning of this legislature, because, as we must say, we have a great deal to deal with these defenders of a society that they believe should still be dominated by patriarchy. I therefore thank the authors of this proposal, including Mrs Goedele Liekens, and I agree with the wishes of some of my colleagues for a good recovery. This parliamentary initiative was necessary to send a signal to some states that we do not accept their actions or failures that undermine women's rights. What other proof do we need that the thousands of women who went down the streets of Turkey last August to denounce the Erdogan government's will to end this Istanbul Convention altogether? What other proof do we need that the hallucinating figures we have from the United Nations, WHO, the European Commission, Amnesty International and many other national and international organisations, while knowing that, behind these figures, there are human lives and even broken destinies? What other evidence do we need that the significant increase in emergency calls from women taken hostage by their violent spouses during confinement in this home, which is no longer a place of appeasement but a place of fear and horror? Today, both Turkey and Poland are considering withdrawing from the binding Istanbul Convention. Today, several signatories such as Bulgaria, Slovakia and Hungary have definitively ended the ratification process. Is it only necessary to remind them that this Convention enshrines absolute fundamental rights that guarantee every woman her physical and mental integrity? Under no circumstances can these rights be considered as an adjustment variable. For the ultra-conservative authorities of Turkey, Poland and Hungary, this convention would undermine the values of the family. On the contrary, this convention protects families and among them the most vulnerable. That is why we cannot allow these governments to diminish the rights that the convention grants to these many women and girls who are already suffering from the lack of support and protection at national level, especially in a period so troubled by the health, social and economic crisis that we are going through and that will leave traces. We must also see the extent of domestic violence during confinement in Belgium to see how much violence against our partner is still commonplace, even in our country. Mr Lacroix rightly referred to femicides, of which – according to the census work carried out by the associations, failing to see the State accomplish the same task – the number was twenty-four in 2020. So it wasn't seventeen, but it doesn't matter. The main point is that this figure is only the tip of the iceberg. In this respect, I had tabled a bill, which is still on the agenda of the Justice Committee, to criminalize femicides. The Minister of Justice has promised us to assess with the government the opportunity to do so. In addition, I had tabled a motion for a resolution, adopted last June, in which it was already stressed that a national emergency action plan should be adopted to help the victims of this shadow pandemic as quickly as possible. The aim is also that, whatever their region, whatever their police area, whatever their socio-economic level, every woman is respected, assisted and protected. It was indispensable – and that remains so. Indeed, the less this violence will be prevented, the greater the socio-economic inequalities between men and women – as a relevant colleague pointed out – and the more this violence will continue, or even increase. We therefore find ourselves in an infernal cycle which must absolutely cease. It is for this reason that respect for and implementation of the Istanbul Convention is paramount. That is the message that I sincerely welcome to address to these States, supporting this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u104	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u105	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Marianne Verhaert, Tim Vandenput, Christian Leysen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u106	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Jef Van den Bergh, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is in a twofold context. On the one hand, the introduction in 2016 of provisions aimed at penalising, by administrative fines, non-compliance with the laws on navigation, with moreover an upward revision of certain amounts of these fines. Today, it is a matter of no longer sending some of these, the least burdensome, fines back to the prosecutor's office in order to speed up the taking of sanctions. That is one of the objectives of this proposal tabled by my colleague. On the other hand, this proposal, I must also say, is part of an unfortunate overall tendency to discharge prosecutors from some of their tasks, given the overall lack of resources for justice. This is a trend that must be combated, but in the long term, by a gradual refinancing of the Belgian justice system. Until then, we are in an in-between, and we can only note that this lack of resources in the judicial world is detrimental to the speedy enforcement of the law, including for minor navigational offences. For our group, this is not a good signal, in terms of deterrence, particularly in the fight against pollution. In committee, we were able to obtain figures from the Administrative Fines Department of the Directorate-General Navigation of the Mobility FPS. This system operates with almost 500 offences detected per year, with penalties that can be pecuniaryly severe. Furthermore, in terms of hindsight on the 2016 system, we know that most of the minutes relating to violations of the navigation laws are systematically transmitted by the Public Prosecutor to the Administrative Fines department of the said Mobility SPF. Shortening procedures through this provision will hopefully have a more deterrent effect on behaviour and pollution, as long as the means of control follow, of course. This decriminalization should also make it possible to rethink the role of the Public Prosecutor's Office for the most serious environmental offences. In this connection, it should be recalled that criminal proceedings are always possible in cases of double offences, involving in particular environmental legislation. This is the case with the offences referred to in articles 15, 16 and 17 of the Marine Environmental Protection Act, offences relating to incineration, dumping and dumping of waste. These offences are punishable by fines of between 100 000 and 1 million euros or by imprisonment from two months to two years. The continuation of this type of prosecution, particularly with prison sentences, seems to us to be a strong symbolic element. Therefore, for our group, the balance is achieved in terms of efficiency and adaptation to a context stemming from the history of this legislation introduced in 2016, but also by maintaining heavy sanctions in relation to environmental pollution. It is important to have effective legislation to protect marine environments. We must continue to work on this issue. In this connection, I would like to recall Vivaldi's very strong ambitions in this area, particularly with regard to the desire to include ecocide in our Penal Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u108	Madam President, the PVDA voted against this proposal because we think that the depenalisation of environmental pollution is a bad signal. Certain infringements are no longer subject to prison sentences; in future, only fines will be imposed by administrative means. We believe that this is a wrong signal for the protection of our maritime environment. Administrative enforcement does not take victims into account: there is no civil parties in administrative or administrative enforcement. As an injured party, therefore, the procedure is not involved. One does not even have the right to be informed. In the event of damage, compensation must be obtained through a separate civil procedure. If an NGO becomes aware of a deposit at sea with far-reaching consequences for nature, the NGO will no longer be able to face a bourgeois party as a result of the proposed legislative amendment. However, such a procedure is much more accessible than civil proceedings for compensation. We still have a number of reasons of principle for not welcoming depenalisation. To this end, a power which actually belongs to the judiciary ends up in the hands of the government. In the case of very small facts with lower penalties, the transfer is not necessarily problematic, but far-reaching depenalisation, with also heavier crimes as may be the case here being dealt with by the civil service, is not appropriate from the point of view of the separation of powers. The tendency to subject cases to civil enforcement is also part of a vicious circle, where more and more resources are going to administrative enforcement and less and less to criminal enforcement at the expense of the public prosecutors, who are actually heavily understaffed. If more were to be invested in the parquets, it would also be possible to speed up enforcement. We regret that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has gone so far along with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the system of administrative fines in the event of infringements of federal shipping laws was introduced by Minister De Backer through the law of 25 December 2016 and is now in force for four years. In a first stage, it was intended to provide only for administrative fines as an alternative to criminal fines. Let me stress once again that if there are mixed infringements, such as a discharge, Mrs Vindevoghel, there can still be criminal proceedings. This is only about infringements of the Shipping Act. In the meantime, on the basis of experience gained, we can bring into force a second stage, namely the depenalisation of certain infringements which can only be punishable by a fine and which are therefore better completed at administrative level, or infringements which have been found to have been passed on by the public prosecutor to the competent department by default. It is therefore a matter of strengthening and improving the system, keeping the time between the infringement and the sanction as short as possible by allowing the competent department to act immediately after receipt of the minutes without having to wait for the decision of the public prosecutor. The time between the finding of the infringement and the imposition of the sanction measure is thus greatly reduced. For example, intrusions in the wind farms will be dealt with directly by the competent department. In addition, there is one competent authority, one single procedure, one decision, and one final appeal. All with respect for the rights of the defense. Further depenalisation of infringements is also in line with the international trend towards decriminalisation of seafarers. In addition, this bill improves the administrative prosecution procedure by, among other things, facilitating the procedure with foreign suspects, namely: if no legal representative is designated in Belgium, the ship's agent is suspected to be the legal representative of the suspected offender. In addition, the option to choose a place of residence has been made possible, so that all notifications to that place of residence in Belgium can be made. It is also stipulated that the costs of the proceedings can be passed on to the offender and that the minutes for de-penalised infringements should only be delivered to the competent department, thus reducing the administrative burden on the competent inspectors. In addition, the competent department is given the possibility to obtain all information from all administrations free of charge in order to make a correct decision. Finally, the scope for sanctions of the Research Council for Shipping is also being changed. The disciplinary body for seafarers will be able to impose compulsory refresher or refresher training, compulsory simulator time and/or examination. Colleagues, at times when the courts are overburdened, especially now with appeals against corona fines, this additional depenalisation of infringements of federal shipping laws and their implementing decisions will be a welcome relief. As the Maritime Code entered into force between the presentation of this proposal and the final vote today, we have had to improve the legislative proposal with several amendments, often in order to amend references to legislation which has since been lifted or amended. This proposal is therefore fully in line with the new Maritime Code. I would like to express my thanks to all those who have contributed to this proposal and have made sure that this proposal has been adapted to the changing rules. The system of administrative fines has proven to support an effective enforcement policy by combating impunity. I do not think anyone can object to this, and so I expect that this bill can be approved with your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u110	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u111	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (743/8) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (743/8) The title has been amended by the commission in "Proposal for a law amending various laws on navigation relating to the application of legal provisions in the field of navigation". The title was changed by the Commission to "legislative proposal amending several shipping laws on enforcement policy in shipping." The bill has 19 articles. The bill has 19 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u112	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u113	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u114	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said in committee, this is a technical transposition of a European directive. However, progress towards a Europe of rail is to be made through greater simplification and standardization of administrative procedures for rail operators. This is a step forward in the integration of European networks. It's not the panacea. However, this is part of a positive path. The safety of travellers and staff is also a focus with clear governance objectives by strengthening the independence of control agencies in the event of an accident. Article 9 of the text also refers to the observance of working conditions. This is an important aspect which requires the continuation of the social dialogue initiated at Belgian level. The committee was able to have broad and constructive opinions from railway undertakings, trade unions, the European Union, safety and investigative bodies. These opinions are either positive or neutral, or they are still to draw the attention of the committee and Parliament to key issues concerning, inter alia, the safety in general and the safety of staff (working conditions). The text should not be told what it did not say. It is not a text of positioning on, for example, the liberalisation of rail or a text that will solve all the problems. But it is a text which, through technical arrangements, aims to implement a Europe of rail, a Europe where one can move more easily by train from Brussels to Vienna, from Brussels to Malmö, from Brussels to Berlin, from Brussels to the South of Europe or to neighbouring countries. It is an ambition that we support to make rail more competitive with regard to polluting modes of transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, we, too, could not agree to the proposed technical adjustment of the rail package. This had to be dealt with before Christmas, even if it was a document of 772 pages. We then proposed to ask for the opinion of various bodies, and that was the case. However, the technical nature of a proposal does not mean that it cannot also be political. Ecolo's colleague even accused me of doing too much political work on this text. However, this is about the fourth rail package, and since it is of great social importance, it is of course also a political issue. In 2016, the fourth package attracted a great deal of resistance from trade union organisations throughout Europe. After all, the first two packages have already demonstrated the impact of liberalisation on freight transport and international transport. During the discussion of the coalition agreement, I said that freight transport illustrates that liberalisation is not a good thing: Lineas comes every year begging for financial support while working and wage conditions are not good. In those countries where liberalisation policy is already much more advanced, we see that it has become a catastrophe. The British situation clearly shows that the liberal ideology of competition is contrary to the needs of the population. Services and equipment are deteriorating, with all the consequences for safety. Ticket prices are rising and railroads are now being put back into government hands. The Netherlands, in particular, is already showing the consequences of the fourth railway package today. Soon there will be only ten fully manned stations with ticket desks. Travellers should now turn to a talking pole or use an app. In the meantime, a debate is being held in Parliament on reducing market forces in rail, in other words in the opposite direction. In the Netherlands the award was awarded to the national railways, which Vivaldi did here with SNCB. That is a good thing. In the Netherlands, however, several private players are already active in passenger transport and they will now challenge the award to the NS, a political decision, in court by using the rules of the fourth railway package. The Dutch Liberal Government is, as it were, being held hostage by the private transport companies and they are no longer seeing their way back. That is exactly what awaits us. We have not yet forgotten that Vivaldi has also opened the door to liberalisation through some pilot projects without European regulation. The need for a regulatory and technical update to establish a better integrated train network throughout the European Union is obvious, but not without adequate social protection for workers, passengers and the environment. The reckless and compulsory liberalisation of our rail market is certainly not the way to a better future for rail. We are in favour of more international cooperation, but without the sale of the public service. We will vote against these liberal dogmas, which, under a thin layer of modernisation, represent a leap back from decades in terms of workers' rights, the quality of service and the safety of citizens. We see the havoc caused by liberalisation in other sectors, such as aviation. We don't want "ryanization" of the track. We need to move towards an efficient and sustainable transport system that drastically reduces greenhouse gas emissions. The railways are a useful way of achieving this goal. It is essential that we invest in this means of transport and make it accessible. This must remain in the hands of the government. The fourth rail package is therefore a step in liberalisation that we do not want to go along with. Even SNCB, in the recommendation, I quote: 'as a railway undertaking entrusted with the task of providing public services in Belgium, SNCB is closely following developments in the liberalisation of the rail market. The transposition of the technical pillar of the fourth rail package is an important step in this." I'm not saying that, SNCB says that. ACV-Transcom made comments, unfortunately too late, after the discussion in committee. ACV-Transcom has suggested a number of elements relating to the safety and working conditions of workers. One of the main criticisms is the lack of supervision of driving times that can affect safety. The 2020 Annual Report of the Railway Safety and Interoperability Service (DVIS) states that there is control of documents but not of driving times and working hours. According to the DVIS, the management of subcontracting is a very sensitive issue because it is not sufficiently developed to properly assess the problem of driving times. The European Transport Federation (ETF) stresses the need for security and workers to be able to defend their rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u117	Madam President, yes, this text is consistent, very technical but also political! I agree on this with Mrs Vindevoghel. It is a project that pushes Belgium forward on rail. As Mr. Parent has described very well, it is a matter of facilitating border crossing, coordinating the mechanisms for controlling, approving and facilitating the transport of goods and persons from country to country. In this respect, it is very much in line with the government's ambitions to make rail the backbone of mobility, to develop freight transport, which is developing strongly internationally, and to provide environmentally friendly and secure alternatives to other more polluting modes of transport for international passenger transport. It therefore does not concern the other government projects that I have the pleasure of defending in the Committee on Mobility. It is not about what is happening in the Netherlands, but it is certainly very interesting. It does not relate to rail liberalisation. It devotes a great deal of progress in the rail sector. It is, moreover, widely supported. It was in the Committee on Mobility, which I thank. It has been done by many actors, whose support I welcome. And I thank those who have worked on this text: my predecessor François Bellot and above all the Mobility FPS which has remarkably coordinated the technical work of transposing this important directive to build the Europe of rail. I therefore welcome the vote on this text in a few minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u118	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u119	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1642/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1642/3) The bill has 190 articles, as well as annexes. The draft law contains 190 articles and annexes. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u120	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u121	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Bert Wollants, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u122	Madam President, I will be very brief. We shall vote in favour, but I have one comment to make. This is important and I understand that further work is needed and that, in the current context, the airlines do not yet have an overview of the situation with regard to flights, but I read today in La Libre Belgique that Ryanair is asking for charges for the airport to be reduced. I do not think it is intended to be negotiated separately by certain airlines on airport charges. We know that Ryanair is once again in conflict with the trade unions because the company does not respect social dialogue. I hope, Minister, that Ryanair does not try to obtain tax exemptions. I would also like to say that there are many other cats to be flogged at the airport. This week we have had the topical debate on airport security. I call on you to address the precarious situation at the airport. The situation for workers and businesses is very difficult and there are a lot of restructuring going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a bill with the same principle on the airport tariff system was also on the agenda a year ago. Like last year, the principle of extending tariffs by one year makes sense, given that it is almost impossible for airlines to accurately assess their future activities. The Flemish interest is of the opinion, also by analogy with my speech a year ago, that there are now sufficient technological solutions to organise, if necessary, permanent consultations between the various actors. In line with the remarks made by some colleagues in the committee, there are opportunities for developing a number of forward-looking criteria for the aviation sector. Unlike those colleagues, the priority for the Flemish interest is not primarily environmental criteria, but rather the protection of the jobs of the many insecure workers, active in the aviation sector and related sectors. I wanted to make that last point here, and that also ends my ultra-short speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u124	Madam Chair, I will say briefly that we will not support this bill. We do not understand why we still need to postpone the discussion on the evolution of take-off and landing rates at the Brussels-National airport. We have heard the arguments and we do not understand them. What is it, in fact? It is a matter of not delaying once again a discussion which is only beginning and which will continue anyway until the beginning of the year 2022. This would cover take-off and landing rates based on aircraft noise, as long as they take off and land at the airport, i.e. during the day, evening or night. We did it a year ago. I don't understand why we can't have this discussion. It is known that in Brussels a noisy plane that takes off or lands, including at night, is much less penalized than at other European airports. I had the opportunity, in particular, to visit Schiphol with the Committee on Infrastructure. The fares were much more dissuasive for very noisy aircraft. I don't understand why we still need to postpone this discussion. I understand that today the traffic is very disturbed, but these are parameters that relate to the day, the night, the duration, and the noise that the planes make. On these issues, we could move forward and begin the discussion. We could do so all the more because once again it will last for a year. I therefore do not understand why Minister Gilkinet and the government are still delaying this discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u125	Mr Dallemagne, the reasons for this postponement were set out in committee. I'd like to repeat them here, if necessary. Today, aviation activity at Zaventem Airport corresponds to 15% of what is normally in view of the situation that everyone is experiencing - the covid-19 pandemic. Air companies do not have a vision of when the activities will restart or how strongly they will restart. This depends on public health issues and developments in the fight against the pandemic that are widely addressed here. This five-year agreement, which is being negotiated within the current framework between the airport and the airlines, requires a vision of the volume of flights to divide the final cost covered by this fare system according to the number of flights assumed. This is in the current context and it is the health situation that warrants the postponement once again – since this has already been the case once – of the discussion on the determination of the rates to be applied. As I said in committee, we will take advantage of this postponement to turn constraints into opportunities and to improve the system. I've been a minister for 100 days, a little more now, 103 days. I discover things that have been put in place by others other than me. That is how it is in democracy. I am trying to improve them as quickly as possible wherever this requires prior analysis, but, as I said in the Committee on Mobility – this was a suggestion from several members of the committee, including Mrs Buyst – we are going to try to have a slightly smarter, more finer system. It will take into account noise standards and encourage our air sector to move towards less polluting and more respectful forms for the residents of the airport – a particularly complicated issue, undermined by previous decisions and which is the subject of several judicial files with decisions that are all respectable but very often contradictory. We will use this one-year delay to try to move towards an environmentally and socially fairer system than it is now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u126	Minister, thank you for your clarification. Of course, I am fully aware of the impact of this pandemic on the air sector. It's obvious. However, once again, you answer next to the arguments that I make. It is not because fewer aircraft take off and land that we cannot, today, tell us that it is better to prefer less noisy aircraft, aircraft that do not land at night and do so during the day. That is the point of the discussion. I went to find out what the criteria were. Thus, I saw that between the most and least noisy plane, the factor oscillates from one to three in Belgium, while it is from one to six in Schiphol. Why can't we already announce – for the coming months or for next year – that we could align ourselves with such a criterion? That is the meaning of my reproach: we could have started the discussion now. Therefore, the argument of the pandemic seems to me neither valid nor relevant in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u127	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u128	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1692.3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1692/3) The title has been amended by the committee in "Bill on measures against the spread of the VOCID-19 pandemic with regard to the tariff system at Brussels-National Airport". The title was changed by the Commission to "draft law on measures against the spread of the COOVID-19 pandemic as regards the Brussels National Airport tariff system." The bill has five articles. The draft law contains 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u129	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u130	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Sophie Rohonyi, François De Smet. The Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities proposes to reject this bill. (1420/2) The Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities proposes that this bill be rejected. (1420/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. The rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Merckx, who refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in almost a year the health crisis has taught us a great deal. She also reminded us of the importance of our health care system, but also of the health care personnel who now carry this system at arm's length. Among these staff, there are doctors who are seriously missing. This shortage of doctors today threatens the right to access quality care for all. For many Belgians, getting an appointment with the doctor can be part of a real combatant's journey. For the sickest of them, the consequences can be terrible. Many studies continue to point out that an insufficient number of doctors are de facto increasing the cost of our health care. Among these studies, there is the KCE report that already dates back to 2008. The more difficult it is to have access to a doctor, the later the diagnosis will be made and the treatment prescribed, the greater the risk of medical complications, hospitalizations, interventions, work stoppages and disabilities, which should be avoided as this represents a huge cost to the State. This phenomenon was objected to with the crisis of the covid. I am thinking of all these patients who have seen their diagnosis darkened due to the postponement of consultations and care. I think of some of the women I had the opportunity to meet who ended up in palliative care for a simple melanoma that could not be treated in time. This lack of timely care reinforces today's inequalities and what is unfortunately called a two-speed medicine where people with a good financial situation get appointments quickly in unconventional consultation, while the most disadvantaged people sometimes have to wait months for a fully reimbursed consultation. This shortage of doctors is occurring throughout the country. I insist on that point. In Flanders, of the 3.3 doctors who will retire, only one will be trained to replace him. In Wallonia, it is estimated that 146 communes are in short supply of generalists. In Brussels, it is estimated that one in two doctors is over 50 years old. According to the Brussels Observatory for Health and Social Affairs, with no policy change, Brussels will be in a slight shortage of doctors with 80 doctors per 100 000 inhabitants in 2027, and in a severe shortage in 2037 with 56 doctors per 100 000 inhabitants. If the logic of quotas can be defended, it would only be in the case of a plethora of doctors, which is not the case. On the other hand, this logic of quotas can be used to address a real problem, namely to see young people who have trained in medicine in Belgium limited in the exercise of their profession but not non-Belgian European graduates who can automatically receive their INAMI number. Thus, up to 40% of the INAMI numbers assigned in the Wallonia-Brussels federation are to doctors and dentists trained not in Belgium but abroad. My colleague, Catherine Fonck, legitimately questioned the Minister of Health on January 6th about this discrimination. On this occasion, he raised the question of freedom of movement enshrined in our European law as an answer. Except that this freedom of movement for diplomas may be limited for reasons related to public health. This limitation has already been used by other European states in a completely legal way. In addition to these measures, there is therefore also the end of the federal quota for medical graduates in Belgium. In other words, it is the end of this arbitrary and counterproductive system which limits, in each Community, the number of INAMI numbers to be assigned to students who complete up to thirteen years of study in order to finally be able to practice medicine and thus save lives. This system poses so many problems that it has already been circumvented in practice, both by the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and by Flanders. Fortunately, because otherwise, the human impact of this health crisis would have been even more dramatic than the one we have just experienced. We all remember that in December 2019, the Flemish government decided to allow 1,276 medical students to start their university studies in Flanders. This number is higher than the quota set by the federal government. In our discussions in the Committee on Health, I was struck by some of my colleagues calling the measure that we are proposing a populist slogan scanned by those who do not know anything about it. It is an insult to my parliamentary work, but, I assure you, I will get over it. On the other hand, what I do not accept is the insult that has been made to medical students, doctors and front-line experts in this crisis who are sounding the alarm. I think, for example, of Dr.Charlotte Martin of CHU Saint-Pierre for whom "it is incomprehensible to continue the numerus clausus, while we lack arms in all our hospitals". Last October, she insisted that our generalists are overwhelmed and exhausted. It was at the beginning of the second wave, from which we have not finally come out yet. I am also thinking of student organisations such as the FEF or the CIUM, which keep repeating that one in two doctors who retires will not be replaced. I am thinking of ABSyM, for whom the calculation of quotas does not provide for the unexpected and for whom there is an urgent need to provide flexibility in this system. I am also thinking of Emmanuel André, who, at his hearing in a special committee on 20 November, was clear: "The ageing of our population requires more care. And in this one, there is the aging of the medical corps. To better manage the crisis, more doctors would have been needed. I have been saying for 15 years that the system of the numerus clausus needs to be reviewed. We don't need taboos; we need more doctors." I also do not accept that some of my colleagues will eventually deny the commitments that their party made during the previous legislatures or the last elections. I am thinking, for example, of the motion for a resolution tabled in 2015 by Mrs Gerkens d'Ecolo with a view to abolishing the INAMI quota system to correct the existing mismatch between the medical supply of doctors and dentists, on the one hand, and the health care needs of the population, on the other. I am also thinking of Mrs Onkelinx's opposition in principle, when she was Minister of Health, to this famous numerus clausus and which she reiterated, at the beginning of this health crisis, with the words: "The general practitioners are too few. This story of numerus clausus doesn't make any sense. We really need to be able to count on a network of general practitioners who are our security guards on the ground and who can really be on the front line to help." I am also thinking of the MR colleagues who, through the voice of Jacques Brotchi, a prominent neurosurgeon, founder of the neurosurgery department of the Erasmus hospital, have always argued for the abolition of the INAMI quotas; he recalled it shortly before the last federal election. On the limit, it will be up to you, colleagues, to explain this change to your constituents. That's not my problem. But let me regret that, once again, parties are basically denying their commitments. It is precisely this kind of attitude that is widening the gap between...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u132	Mrs Rohonyi, Mrs Pas asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u133	Madam President, I am not asking for the floor to interrupt Mrs Rohonyi or to make a speech, as Rule 88 does not allow me to do so. According to the Rules of Procedure, only the applicant has five minutes to speak. Apart from the fact that I absolutely disagree with what Mrs Rohonyi is saying, we are already double that speaking time. So I would just like to ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure a little bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u134	Mrs. Rohonyi, please close.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u135	Madam President, I would just like to point out that some of my colleagues have not fulfilled their commitments in this way. But it will be up to them to explain it. In committee, I also asked to hear the area, to hear the medical students, to hear the doctors. It was a request that was rejected by colleagues as it was in line with the system assessment provided for in the government agreement. What seems to me to be really fundamental, and which made me ask for the application of rule 88 of the Rules of the House, is that there are two topical elements on which I really had to draw your attention. First, our vaccination campaign will be successful only if we have enough doctors to supervise it. Secondly, the recent investigation by Sciensano, of which we have all spoken in committee...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u136	Mrs. Rohonyi, may I interrupt? Just to explain to you what Mrs. Pas refers to. In fact, there is no limit to speaking time in the Rules of Procedure. But the idea, of course, of rule 88, is to allow us to take the floor here to justify, to explain the motion in summary. The debate has been held in committee and we are not going to do it again here. Hence the idea of limiting speaking time. I would agree enough to limit speaking time, even if it is not in the Rules of Procedure, and to ask you to close. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u137	Madam President, I am providing some topical information that I have not been able to develop in committee. I'll end up there, as I said. The Sciensano survey was published early this week. We closed our committee work before the holidays. I must insist that 22 per cent of health care workers today are so exhausted that they are thinking of leaving their jobs. There are doctors among them. Sciensano just confirmed it to me earlier. They are tired of working conditions and overwork, because they are understaffed. These departures will increase the shortage of doctors, whether you want it or not. At the same time, you will see young people, while they have been impressed by the working strength of these caregivers, while they in turn want to embrace the career as a doctor, who will not be able to do so because there is still this unfair system of INAMI quotas. I just wanted to draw your attention to this point before the vote, so that you could speak in soul and conscience.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u138	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u139	Voters 96 Stemmen White or invalid 5 Blank or invalid Valid 91 Geldig Absolute majority 46 Perfect majority Francophone alternates French-speaking alternates (1) Mr. Pierre Nilles, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared an alternate for Mr. Charles-Eric Clesse. Mr Pierre Nilles, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed an alternate member of Mr Charles-Eric Classe. (2) Mr. David Quinals, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared an alternate for Mr. Didier Dochain. Mr David Quinaux, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed an alternate member of Mr Didier Dochain. (3) Mr. Pierre-Arnaud Perrouty, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared alternate to Mr. Hajib El Hajjaji. Mr Pierre-Arnaud Perrouty, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed as alternate member of Mr Hajib El Hajjaji. (4) Ms. Pauline Tombus, having obtained an absolute majority, was appointed alternate of Ms. Sotieta Ngo. Ms Pauline Tombus, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed as alternate member of Ms Sotieta Ngo. (5) Ms. Achilvie Docketh-Yemalayen, having obtained an absolute majority, was appointed alternate of Ms. Bernadette Renauld. Ms Achilvie Docketh-Yemalayen, who had received the absolute majority, has been appointed deputy to Ms Bernadette Renauld. Dutch-speaking substitutes Dutch-speaking alternates (1) Ms. Shaireen Aftab, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared an alternate of Ms. Yousra Benfquih. Ms Shaireen Aftab, who had received the absolute majority, has been appointed as alternate member of Ms Yousra Benfquih. (2) Ms. Claudia Bonamini, having obtained an absolute majority, was appointed alternate of Ms. Hanne De Roo. Ms Claudia Bonamini, who had received the absolute majority, has been appointed an alternate for Ms Hanne De Roo. (3) Ms Ellen Desmet, having obtained an absolute majority, was appointed alternate of Ms Nathalie Diesbecq. Mrs Ellen Desmet, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed an alternate member of Ms Nathalie Diesbecq. (4) Mr. Abdelharim Bellafkih, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared an alternate to Mr. Marc Michils. Mr Abdelharim Bellafkih, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed an alternate member of Mr Marc Michils. (5) Mr Dirk Jacobs, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared an alternate for Mr Jogchum Vrielink. Mr Dirk Jacobs, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed as alternate member of Mr Jogchum Vrielink. The individual votes cast will be reproduced in the Annex to the full report of the next plenary session. The individual results will be included in the Annex to the Integrated Report of the next plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u140	Voters 96 Stemmen White or invalid 0 Blank or invalid Valid 96 Geldig Absolute majority 49 Perfect majority Mr. Jérôme Aass obtained 91 votes. Mr Jérôme Aass received 91 votes. Mr. Philippe Vande Castele obtained 5 votes. Mr Philippe Vande Castele received 5 votes. Mr. Jérôme Aass, who obtained 91 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, was appointed as a French-speaking federal mediator. Since Mr Jérôme Aass received 91 votes, this is the absolute majority, he was appointed French-speaking federal Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u141	The list of three candidates nominated by the Conseil d'État for a position as French-speaking State Councillor was communicated to you during the plenary session of January 7, 2021. The list of three candidates nominated by the Council of State for a position of the French-speaking State Council was communicated to you at the plenary session of 7 January 2021. Since the presentation is not unanimous, the Chamber may, in accordance with Article 70, § 1, paragraph 8, of the Acts on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, and within a period of not more than 30 days from the receipt of the communication of that presentation, either confirm the list submitted by the Council of State or present another list of three formally reasoned names. Since the nomination is not unanimous, the Chamber may, in accordance with Article 70 (1) (8) of the Laws on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, either confirm the list proposed by the Council of State within a maximum period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the notification of the nomination, or propose a second list of three names which are expressly reasoned. The time limit for the Chamber to present another list or to confirm the list expires on 16 January 2021. The time limit available to the Court to propose a different list or to confirm the list shall expire on 16 January 2021. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 January 2021, I propose that you confirm the list presented by the Council of State. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 January 2021, I propose to confirm the list proposed by the Council of State. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u142	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u143	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 6 January 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 6 January 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 58/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Dries Van Langenhove; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 58/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Dries Van Langenhove; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I have held my interview and tabled the motion in response to the abuses that have occurred in the Grand Mosque in Brussels. Those abuses aren't minor. After the Committee of Inquiry on the attacks of 22 March 2016 decided that something urgently needed to change there, our security services also noted that the Great Mosque was first in the grip of the radical Islam promoted from Saudi Arabia. Afterwards, the Great Mosque turned out to have fallen into the grip of Moroccan intelligence. espionage has been established there, and it has been established that our taxpayers' money, of Flemings, Walls and Brusselsers, is being abused by that radicalist organization. I have tabled a motion on this subject with a number of very reasonable and urgent interventions. Firstly, I want to ensure that the spies caught on the board are removed and that a number of measures are taken to prevent espionage on such boards in the future. Secondly, I would ask the Chamber to put an end to the facilitation and subsidising of organisations which apparently serve the interests of foreign Islamic powers. Thirdly, I would ask for a better screening of such organisations so that there can no longer be any espionage abroad in those organisations. All of these seem to me to be very reasonable proposals and yet I had to learn that when I hear all of this, colleagues from Open Vld and N-VA are especially awake from the question. I quote: "How can we ensure that extreme right-wing parties and organisations cannot use the story to put Muslims in a bad light?" Rara, what party do you think this is about? Dear people, what makes Muslims in a bad light, is this espionage, is the abuse of taxpayers' money, is the fact that there servants of foreign powers abuse Islam in Belgium, not to serve the interests of Muslims in Belgium, but to serve the interests of foreign powers. So, ladies and gentlemen of Open Vld and N-VA, perhaps you should address those problems instead of trying to muffle or censor those problems under the mat.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u145	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u146	Yes [[85]] Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u147	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u148	Yes 95 Yes No. [[40]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (524/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (524/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u149	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u150	Yes 122 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 139 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (467/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (467/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u151	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u152	Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1588/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1588/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u153	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u154	Yes 126 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (743/9) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (743/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u155	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u156	Yes 110 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 139 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1642/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1642/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u157	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u158	Yes 118 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 138 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1692/04) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1692/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u159	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u160	Yes 122 Yes Non 17 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 139 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 1420/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 1420/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-14-definitief-55-plenair-ip083x.u161	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. I'll be happy to meet you. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, January 21, 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 21 January 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
