ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u2	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] [[:]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on 4 March, in Aalst Francis Van den Eynde, Honorary Vice-President of the Chamber, died. He was 74. After secondary education, Francis Van den Eynde became active in the insurance sector. In addition, he committed himself almost immediately to the Flemish movement. In 1968 he joined the Brussels People's Union section, of which he soon became chairman. In 1979, he moved to the Vlaams Blok. In January 1989, Francis Van den Eynde became city council member in Ghent, a mandate which he would continue to exercise until December 2012. Two years later, in November 1991, he became MP for the Ghent-Eeklo arrondissement. He was very active in, among other things, the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on Home Affairs and the Committee on External Relations. In his speeches, Francis Van den Eynde made himself known as an eloquent or even inspired parliamentarian who never avoided polemics. He has always relied on his scholarship and in-depth knowledge, as well as his sense of humour. Because of his great interest in foreign policy, he was also an enthusiastic member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe for many years. Francis Van den Eynde was Vice-President of this assembly from 1999 to 2001. He left the Chamber in June 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Francis Van den Eynde was a very committed and straightforward politician who distinguished himself by his commitment and knowledge of the file. Those who knew him will remember him as a sometimes bullying character, but also as an inimitable bon vivant who was proud of his appearance and his past. Francis Van den Eynde was also a cultivated person, passionate about theatre and French literature. On behalf of the Chamber, I have expressed our sincere condolences to his wife and his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u4	Madam President, on behalf of the government, I would like to express my condolences. Francis Van den Eynde was a man with a strong opinion, someone who never got out of the way of the debate. His ideas and his views were not mine, but let that be at the heart of democracy. The Chamber is the place to hold the contradictory debate, and he did so with complete conviction. The shock of ideas The light comes out. But democracy is more than the clash of ideas. Democracy is also respect for the values and dignity of every human being and his views. This government transfers its condolences to the family of Francis Van den Eynde in this very difficult period for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u5	The Chamber shall observe a minute's silence. The Chamber observed a minute of silence. Events follow each other and do not resemble each other. I wish Mr. From Smet who comes back from a very recent paternity leave. I congratulate him on the birth.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u6	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 March 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 March 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u7	I propose that you include in the agenda of today's plenary session: - the bill amending the coordinated law of 10 July 2008 on hospitals and other care facilities, with regard to the application of prior control of concentrations for clinical networking between hospitals, Nos. 1817/1 to 6. I propose that you enter on the agenda of today's plenary session: - the draft law amending the co-ordinated law of 10 July 2008 on hospitals and other care establishments, as regards the application of the prior control of concentrations of clinical networking between hospitals, Nos 1817/1 to 6. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u8	Prime Minister, the corona figures are not evolving well, as in the neighbouring countries. This should not give rise to panic, but rather caution. Above all, it is a signal that we must respect and enforce the rules we have agreed on the latest Consultation Committee, which, among other things, focused on youth and gave a perspective for the catering industry. I therefore find it incomprehensible, given the evolution of the figures, that some continue to insist on the opening of the terraces of the catering industry. Now we must persevere, now we must show discipline, now we must ensure that the perspective we have offered is realised. We all crave holidays, Prime Minister, for the Easter holidays and certainly the summer holidays. This will certainly require a European summer plan. We are in favour of ideas such as a European vaccination card. But they also cause us a great deal of concern. They are related to privacy and discrimination. Will all people be vaccinated against the summer vacation so that they are eligible for the vaccination card? If that is not the case, what conditions will be imposed? How can one prove that one is not infected? After all, who is the victim? We do not want discrimination based on health status, we do not want discrimination based on age. We do not want young people to suffer, because if they have to be tested, it costs money. For some families that is not a problem, but for other families, and especially for young people, that is a problem. We do not wish that. Prime Minister, how do you express these concerns in Europe? Are there any adjustments needed? Will you convene the Consultative Committee for this purpose or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u9	Madam President, Prime Minister, as Mr Verherstraeten has said, the health situation is difficult and still raises many questions. But optimism is liberal, Prime Minister, and we can also look at the opportunities we will have tomorrow, taking into account the vaccination campaign and the efforts we have made to be able to move more freely again. The European Union has proposed, through its Commissioner for Justice, Didier Reynders, the establishment of a Green Certificate, a digital document that would allow, on the basis of minimum personal data, with the maximum accession of the countries of the European Union, to create a document legible by all the Member States. It would be accessible to any person who has been vaccinated or who supports, for example, a PCR test that demonstrates that he or she is not suffering from covid, or to any person who has contracted covid but is restored and who has been found to be in good health for free circulation. It is therefore a matter of restoring this freedom of movement within the European Union, enabling this freedom to be acquired quickly. Prime Minister, the European Parliament will look into the matter. It is understood that the national parliaments will also have to ask themselves the question. What is the timetable at this level? Can the applications already available be used for the implementation of this Green Certificate? Prime Minister, we will be with you to do this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u10	Thank you for your questions. The objective must be to be able to travel safely in the coming summer. We therefore welcome the European proposal for a green certificate. What was essential for our country was that it was not just a so-called 'vaccination passport', but that other elements, such as tests, were also taken into account. What we have always put forward in our country is that there can be no discrimination between those who have been vaccinated and those who have not been vaccinated or, freely translated, those who have already had the opportunity to be vaccinated, and those who have not yet had the opportunity. We are therefore very pleased that the proposal takes this into account. It is now time to consider the proposal put on the table. Several dimensions need to be addressed. First of all, as you put it, Mrs Jadin, respect for privacy. It's a crucial element. We're talking about medical data here. In some versions, antiviral status based on pre-covid contamination would also be discussed. It is clear that this raises a lot of questions, and we must look carefully at the guarantees, as well as whether the model put forward is sufficiently stable from a scientific point of view. Compared to testing, for example, what is the acceptable test date period to have a certain value? It is clear that in the European Council, Thursday and Friday of next week, we will be discussing this proposal. We also need to look at exactly how that certificate can be used. We are talking about travelling in the Union here. I think that's an important element. Several countries are in the process of developing all kinds of systems to enable travel outside the Union. It would, of course, be a good thing if a common system were to be used for all 27 countries of Europe, so that we would not have to go through the proposals of countries outside Europe and move our system forward. There were also questions about timing and the technical impact. It is the health minister who is taking on the preparations in our country. Respect for privacy is an absolute priority. A sufficient scientific basis is the second priority. I am very pleased that it offers an opportunity to avoid discrimination in the field of travel between those who had the opportunity to be vaccinated and those who did not have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u11	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I agree with his interpretation that everyone should be able to go on summer holidays and that we should do everything we can to make that possible. Yes, a European summer plan is needed, without discrimination. It is good that a negative test can also become a part of it. A few practical problems must then be solved. Firstly, the rules will have to be adapted. One should also be able to get tested before going on vacation. Secondly, there will have to be sufficient test capacity. Thirdly, the cost of testing, about EUR 75, is discriminatory if young people have to pay for it while others have had the opportunity to be vaccinated. That's a problem we need to solve. For the rest, I wish you and your team a lot of perseverance. Our group supports the measures: relaxing if it can be done scientifically, but also adjusting if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u12	Prime Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. Like my colleague, I agree with you on the need for a unitary and readable system. Indeed, we want to avoid a system that would still lead us to carry out border controls. There is a need for uniformity within the European Union. The accessibility of this green certificate is a real challenge. I join Servais Verherstraeten in explaining the other possibilities for free movement within the European Union. Of course, they must be accessible and financially bearable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u13	Madam President, Prime Minister, in several European countries things are already well going wrong, and in our country too we are seeing an increase in the number of infections. We'll see what happens if we don't go through with it. This requires efforts from all of us, but too many employers do not show solidarity. Either they apply for temporary unemployment benefits, but leave their staff to work or they ignore the telework obligation. Teleworking should be more than just not going to the office. Everyone has to wonder what telework means to themselves, their home office and their expenses. Many employers don't bother. In the meantime, we've been in our barn for a year. After one year of teleworking, there are still too few companies that have developed a telework policy. Telework could be a relief for many workers, but at the moment it is mainly a mental pressure. This week, you have called the employers to you and you have spoken to them harshly. Maybe that has reduced traffic, but there are still traffic jams. Telework does not solve the existing mental pressure. In fact, that mental pressure only increases. Prime Minister, our party wants to reopen as soon as possible. We all want to be able to do so as soon as possible and the choices that employers are making now can contribute to this, but I think that warning or checking is no longer working. I would therefore ask you to ensure that the telework obligation is complied with and implemented, but also that telework is framed in a sustainable way so that the people who work telework are adequately supported. They now bear the burden, but get nothing in return for that sacrifice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u14	Mr Prime Minister, as a liberal, I am naturally an optimist, and of course I was very pleased that the previous Consultative Committee could provide a perspective for many sectors and people who are waiting for it, but we must also be realistic: what we have seen in the past few days is a matter of concern. I know that there were people who did not think it was enough after the Consultative Committee and who wanted further relaxation, but we can see that this is not realistic. Over the past few months, the government has always managed to keep a certain course in the fight against the pandemic in a consistent way. The rising figures give us cause for concern. There are two major gateways to the extra contamination: on the one hand the schools, because we see a lot of young people getting infected and there are also many cluster outbreaks in schools, on the other hand the workplace. My predecessor said that the workplace also appears to be an important place of extra contamination. You have seen the employers' organizations, Prime Minister, and you have called together with them for the best possible respect for telework, but we also see a real problem with young people. You will have to consult with the Communities on this. I regret that the Communities are already closing doors on what can be done, while we need a coordinated approach in this pandemic to absolutely ensure that we can keep the perspective for everyone on 1 May. If that means that we need to adjust and become a little more stringent in the coming period in order to ensure that we achieve this, then we simply need to do so. If we can't follow that schedule, a lot of people will get a mental blow and have a very difficult time. Prime Minister, how do you look at the rising figures that worry us? Is it true that there will be an early consultation committee and what measures are you considering?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u15	Madam President, Prime Minister, I am concerned and I think you are also genuinely concerned. The figures are rising and, unfortunately, the situation is not going as planned. However, we note that some parties are still asking for relaxations that are totally unfeasible. After all, reality is harsh and reality is that our care system is under pressure again. This means that, unfortunately, non-urgent concern is postponed once again. That's what worries me. Today people are already afraid to go to the hospital or to the GP. We need to do something about that. The figures for delaying checks and early investigations are simply not good. At present, as many as 50% fewer cases of cancer are detected. That is not because we are doing well, but because unfortunately there are now thousands of people walking around with cancer that we have unfortunately not yet been able to identify because of the delay in the non-urgent care. If we want a health system of solidarity, we need a health system that works for everyone. Non-urgent care today will become urgent care tomorrow. There I am looking for a balanced policy, with an emphasis on prevention and early monitoring, as set out in the coalition agreement. That's what we're gonna need in the years to come. We must therefore think out of the box and learn to live and think with the virus. It will depend on us whether we can show solidarity with all sections of the population. Will you continue to call on the population to turn to hospitals and general practitioners with small ailments? That's really important. People have been staying away from our healthcare system for months for fear. In addition to the existing covid campaign, will you carry out a huge prevention campaign to ensure that that fear disappears and that people are controlled before it is too late?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u16	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, once it is not a custom, I would like to begin my speech by thanking you for maintaining vaccination with AstraZeneca and for not giving in to this irrational and panic movement which has seized the whole of Europe. It is clear that the benefits of vaccination go a long way and that every day we slow down this vaccination will be paid as additional victims and days of confinement. Unfortunately, we are still at the heart of the battle because, Prime Minister, we may be at the beginning of a real third wave. We all wanted to avoid it. We may have slowed her down, but she's here. It is your duty to gather your troops, including those who, within your government, often express themselves instead to give false hopes. Colleagues, it is no longer time for competition to know who should reopen first: restaurants, theatres or hair salons. Now is the time for general mobilization to end this virus once and for all. Look what's happening in England or the United States! These are two countries that are very hard hit and are getting away with their vaccination campaign by force of their pragmatism. There, we're not wondering if such a vaccine is better than another. We're not fighting to find out if we need to reopen this or that sector as a matter of urgency. Over there, all the wills – politicians and others – are mobilized so that seven days a week, constantly, one vaccinates, one vaccinates, one vaccinates! You'll see that they'll get away with it and be able to return to a normal life long before we do. It's time to learn from it! It is your duty and our duty, Prime Minister, to gather, convince and regain the support of the population by speeding up vaccination at all costs, by developing rapid tests, and above all by developing a message – finally – that is really mobilising. It's not just a logistical question, it's a question of team spirit, of trust. To overcome this rate of coverage of collective immunity, it is up to all public authorities to hammer, to mobilize a pro-vaccination message. I only have one request. Tomorrow, during the Consultation Committee, please, do not only try to limit, restrict and prohibit! First of all, if we want to get out of this, we will finally have to mobilize.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u17	Madam President, Minister of Health, I would once again like to ask you about the testing strategy. We continue to see that our testing capabilities remain underutilized as hospitalizations are rising, as predicted by the arrival of variants observed in England two months ago. Some now speak of a third wave. Here, again on February 4, you confirmed the use of less than 50% of our capabilities. I quote: "So we have developed a battery of testing strategies that will enable us to value the tremendous capacity we have. So I think it's an asset rather than a problem." I heard you, minister, but I see the weeks that pass. While since December we have been able to test more than 110,000 people a day, on average we are testing only 45,000. That's a problem. We cannot continue to reduce so many freedoms – that of movement, of meeting, of working, of undertaking, of studying – without ensuring the multiplication of tests. For months, we had to wait for teams and laboratories to be set up. Our capabilities now exist. These people are doing a great job. You know that the testing strategy, in addition to fighting the spread of the virus, makes it possible of course to diagnose. This allows for appropriate treatment that, in turn, avoids the deterioration of a person's health and thus avoids possible hospitalization. However, today we continue to test little and hospitalizations are increasing. Faced with this increase, our entire society remains paralyzed. We must protect these patients in hospitals, the healthcare staff and their services that are fully mobilized for this cause. Minister, why is testing no longer used in our country? How are PCR testing methods updated to ensure variant detection? Why the massive and fast tests...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u18	Your time has expired, Mrs. Taquin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u19	Madam President, Prime Minister, the figures are rising. That's alarming. For some, that is apparently easy to solve with the word 'engagements'. Above all, we must ensure that public opinion is involved in all the measures we take. Since, for example, enforcement is also an important element of this, the proposal, in which we remain, to open the terraces, has its place. The proposal has nothing to do with relaxing, contrary to what is being said here. It has everything to do with the ability to jump in a healthy way with the reality that will emerge during the Easter holiday. If your government remains blind to the enforcement issue, I fear that intertwining will have a reverse effect. I would like to respond to the words of the previous speaker. Testing and vaccinating obviously play an extremely important role. That is why I have a specific question. When can the light be completely green for the self-tests, a possibility which is an element in making the pandemic manageable and which is still too limited today? A final element is education, which is not only of paramount importance to pupils. It is also of the utmost importance for people who have children and who have to take an extra tax into account when leaving education. I would like to ask a very specific question. Since new variants seem and unfortunately have a greater impact on young people, isn't it high time you sided with the Ministers of Education of the Communities to ensure that teachers can be vaccinated as a priority, especially in primary schools? This is perhaps more useful than saying that children will be vaccinated, although this is not technically possible at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u20	Prime Minister, I will not quote figures today and yet they are again at the centre of all concerns. We have the impression that history has been repeating itself for a year and it is terrible because the road still seems long. Faced with the rush of numbers, we learn that Codeco could meet this Friday. The measures taken will have to take into account the situation in our hospitals as well as the consequences they will have for our people. I am, of course, thinking about mental health for a large part of our population. I am also thinking of the poor financial health of certain sectors, especially those which are still at a standstill. Prime Minister, the picture is not happy. More than ever, it is essential to deploy heavy artillery. We must do better, faster and stronger in order to return to normal life as quickly as possible. First, as far as testing is concerned, are we testing enough today? The answer is no. How can we diversify our testing strategies? I am thinking for example of antigen tests but also salivary tests. Secondly, for vaccination, the problems of thrombosis potentially caused by the AstraZeneca vaccine have been of concern to the European scene for several days. I would also like to congratulate the political courage shown by our Minister of Health, and beyond the government as a whole, by not giving in to panic, keeping our heads cold and continuing to vaccinate. The story is showing you were right. AstraZeneca's biggest problem is its inability to deliver the promised doses, resulting in centres and hospitals having to cancel appointments due to lack of vaccine. We know that we have stocks in the fridges, Prime Minister. How to reduce delays between vaccine delivery and administration? Thirdly, there is a need for clear communication that is synonymous with accession. This adherence to measures and vaccination is now very complicated for a part of the population (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u21	Madam President, Prime Minister, the figures are poor and once again we are going to have the debate to determine for which sectors and parts of our community we can close the tap better and for which parts we can open the tap. Let's take a look at what Sciensano himself says about the origin of the infections. Where are the clusters? The figures are clear, 40% of clusters originate in the companies. However, that is a taboo. How many colleagues have talked about the companies here in the last year? That almost never happened, it was always about the young people and private life. What, however, is happening behind the walls of Belgian companies? Apparently that's a taboo, but that's where we find 40% of the clusters. Are we going to decide to shut down our entire community again? Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about this taboo. You proposed to solve the problem by tackling the insufficient application of telework. But the figures from Sciensano show us that the difficulties are present mainly in places where telework is impossible: in the food industry, in construction, in cleaning – in short, wherever workers cannot apply this rule. Once again, this virus affects workers and workers! And you're going to tell us that the solution lies in telework? No, Prime Minister, it translates into the inspections to be carried out within companies. It must be ensured that, where workers perform their tasks manually, they are also protected. I do not understand why, in order to solve this problem, you invite only employers. What about the unions in there? Why do you only summon one of the parties? Trade unionists who participate in the Prevention and Protection at Work Committees (PTPCs) are the eyes of workers. That is not right, Prime Minister! The world of work must be taken into account, as its members know how to protect their rights. Therefore, I would like you to convene them so that this debate can be held.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u22	Each member of the government interviewed is entitled to five minutes to answer the various questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u23	As indicated by spokesmen Steven Van Gucht and Yves Van Laethem, our country is on a rising plateau today. Ultimately, what we are seeing today is broadly in line with what the experts had announced to us on the basis of models proposed three weeks ago, namely that at the end of March, early April there would be an increase in the number of hospitalizations and then a decrease. What we see is that this increase is coming a lot earlier. This is different from the baseline scenario on which we were based today. The day before yesterday the number of hospital admissions was 208, yesterday it was 207, today it is 206: that is on the high side of the predictions. We also saw yesterday that the number of positive tests on Monday is above 5,000. This must be an absolute warning that the circulation of the virus has increased significantly. That was one of the reasons why yesterday we had a meeting with the prime ministers in order to analyse the situation properly. What concerns us, Prime Ministers and Federal Government, is that we see that the strongest increase in positive cases is among young people between 0 and 19 years of age. We're seeing a sharp rise there. This increase among young people was the subject of a consultation meeting held today between the Ministers of Education. It is necessary to analyse in detail what is happening in the young population and in schools in order to be able to develop scenarios to try to control the situation. One must be clear: if we see today a net increase in positive cases among young people under 20 years of age, it is logical that we see one also among their parents, 40-65 years of age. This latter age category represents the largest share of hospitalizations. This situation is a matter of concern. Hospitals are scaled up to phase 1B, which means hospitals are getting ready to accommodate more people in intensive care. The Minister for Health will go into this in more detail. Sciensano's figures clearly show the places where the clusters of contamination occur, especially at the workplace and in schools. That is why I have asked the employers' representatives to come to me this week, so that we can clearly agree with them that teleworking is an obligation. Providing the opportunity to work from home is the best way to stop the chain of contamination. I am fully aware that people have been working at home for almost a year and that it is particularly challenging. We will also take measures for workers who cannot telework. The Minister of Health will present a system of rapid workplace testing that will help us get out as quickly as possible of those who may contaminate others. In the discussion about return times, we spoke clearly about the perspective, but it is not today, because today it is absolutely too unsafe. What does all this mean for the next few days? First of all, I think it is clear to everyone that we must be particularly careful. We must all share the message that we are in a delicate situation and that we must be particularly careful. The experts and the commissioner do the analysis and review scenarios. A Consultation Committee was scheduled for next Friday. We're evaluating the numbers for now. Let it be clear: it is the figures that should help us to determine what is needed, not the emotions, not a panic mood. It's the facts that have to help us with this. What is important is that we safeguard the prospect of 19 April for schools and the prospect of 1 May for a number of reopenings. How can we safeguard that? The rules that we have today and which have been successful are still the right ones. We must continue to respect these rules: to avoid contact, to keep our distance, to work from home, to do everything possible to avoid contamination and to be hyper cautious. It is still the golden recipe to ensure that we can control this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, many people have today been included in the intensive care section because they are suffering heavily from COOVID-19. The infections are rising very strongly. We will therefore have to do everything we can to ensure that our schools can be fully open on 19 April, so that they can work normally, not with distance learning. We should also be able to open the cafés and restaurants completely on 1 May. That's what we want. For that we now have to take everything out of the closet and take measures. What we need to get out of the closet is vaccination and testing. Mrs Taquin, I would first like to give a number. Yesterday, in one day, 73,000 people were tested in Belgium. It's a big deal. We cannot say that we do not use a huge testing capability. But it is true that we can do better. We distinguish three lines in our testing organization. The first line, which is essential, is to test symptomatic or at-risk contacts as quickly as possible. Mrs Taquin, let me say that I have a few problems here. In the province of Liège or Hainaut, it is noted that in comparison with the Belgian average and the other Walloon provinces, very few people are tested. We do not believe that the virus is circulating there! It is therefore necessary to mobilise, through general practitioners and public authorities, all citizens everywhere, to get tested if they have symptoms or have had high-risk contacts. It's very important. This first line must be mobilized. The second line concerns repetitive testing within public and private organisations, also by easing the regulatory framework. We're working on it. I rarely agree with Mr Hedebouw, but he is right: we must protect those who have to go to work. They must be protected, inter alia, by organizing repetitive screening and mobilizing occupational health services and medicine. We consult with all these sectors, with these actors. But it is clear that employers have a central responsibility. The Prime Minister was right to target this responsibility. Repeat screening is also a protection for workers. We will deploy it, not only in private companies, but also in the police and in education, where we will expand the pilot project – which you know – after Easter. The third line is the repetitive testing of citizens by self-testing, which we will develop by creating the appropriate regulatory framework. Self-tests will not be a passport to gain access to an activity or not, but will be an extremely important tool to mobilize everyone to protect themselves, to verify what is happening and thus protect others. Therefore, the priority must be vaccination, testing and prudence. All available resources must be mobilized. It won't take as long as we can imagine. We know we can vaccinate the population with safe and effective vaccines. So we will win!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u25	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Teleworking remains one of the most powerful means of preventing the spread of the virus. But even after a year, I still hear too many people saying: we have been sitting on that taboo at our kitchen table for a year. That's mentally heavy indeed. Moreover, this also gives financial pressure. Because the extra costs for heating and internet are hard to bear. We have to stick together. That's right. It seems very important to me that we should be able to keep the schools open and that we should be able to achieve the relaxations that have already been announced. But that requires solidarity from all of us. The employers, too. That is why I would once again urge companies to implement a genuine teleworking policy so that teleworkers can continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u26	Mr Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for the answers. I can only share your ambition that the agenda you drew up for 19 April for education and for 1 May for all those sectors that have been closed for so long will retain the perspective. It would be a huge blow if it didn't. This also means that anyone who comes to the next Consultative Committee must come there with an open mind and be prepared to take the necessary measures to achieve the objective effectively. That is why our group regrets that some Communities have already closed certain gates in advance. We really must show solidarity in the exercise. Prime Minister, Minister, you have been following a consistent course for months, and you are doing it well. Go on like that. Frankly, the figures you just outlined on cluster outbreaks in young people, and the contagion rates that rise by thousands every day, are worrying. As far as I am concerned, you should not care about reckless proposals such as relaxing at the moment and setting terraces that the catering industry itself has not asked for. That's recklessness. Please don't let that guide you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u27	Minister, you have forgotten my question. However, if you do not lose sight of the non-urgent concern, you will take a big step for our people. I continue to stress that we must go for a general solidarity system of care, which also means that patients who need non-urgent care must be able to be helped. After all, I repeat that today's non-urgent concern will become urgent concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u28	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. I take note of your call to mobilization and learn with satisfaction the progress of self-tests. For the rest, I note that you are very cautious. In fact, we are entering a period of great uncertainty. As such, I would like to reiterate my call for confidence in parliamentary democracy. Yes, I know that a draft pandemic bill is being discussed for the time being. However, the present situation offers us a good example of what I am saying: the more uncertainty increases, the more complex we need to juggle with complex data, the more trade-offs between health, mental health and the economy, the more we need to be able to rely on parliamentary democracy. Whether it's tomorrow or next week, it doesn't matter, but – gracefully! – Do not restrict freedoms by mere ministerial decrees! Come back to Parliament! If it is really necessary, we will be delighted to share the weight of these responsibilities and the support of the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u29	Minister, I can hear you, as I have been doing for months. I asked you about the testing on February 4 – and I started questioning you in October. That's a problem. A year ago, WHO urged countries to test, test and test. For months, it was impossible to test massively. We've been able to do this for three months. However, we are not doing so in line with the restrictions on our freedom. Still today, I hear you answer that there is a problem, that you can do better, that the regulatory framework needs to be simplified and that one for self-tests needs to be created. We know that, but it could have been done all this time! Minister, I am disappointed. Obviously, the vaccine will help us get out of this crisis. That's why people have to get vaccinated. The same applies to testing. Here too, for this reason, we have to get tested.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u30	Mrs Taquin, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u31	You'll excuse me, but by adding caution...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u32	Mrs Taquin, your remarks will not be reflected in the record, because your speaking time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, if, after Mr Lachaert's speech, the question of whether or not there are any liberals has been raised, then an answer has just been given. Yeah, they're still here, but they're not at Open Vld. Vaccination is indeed a key word. The pace is not very high and even at that low pace not every region can meet the same level of vaccination. I hope that, in this respect, all regions will take full responsibility and take an example of that maled Flanders. Secondly, I share the disappointment which has just been expressed. Mr Vandenbroucke, as regards self-tests and speed tests, we have been dealing with corona for over a year now, and you are now announcing that everything is being prepared so that we can use them. Can you guarantee it might be okay with the next pandemic? You're really late here, aren't you? Mr Verherstraeten, I am glad to hear that you have such high regard for privacy. You will certainly be on our side to fundamentally amend the proposed draft privacy threatening pandemic law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u34	Prime Minister, Minister, we have certainly come at a turning point and I think you have clearly understood that this moment should not be missed. You have clearly understood that the situation in hospitals should be taken into account, but besides somatic health, there is obviously the mental health, very worrying and also the financial health of our sectors, especially that of the sectors that are still at a standstill. I'm glad to hear you today. In particular, when I urged the government to go faster, to do better, to hit harder, I heard in your speeches this willingness to test better. This is certainly one of the keys: testing. We need to test more and better. It is necessary to isolate when necessary. There is also a need for more vaccination. It's obviously the light at the end of the tunnel. It must be borne in mind that from now on, people will celebrate their second birthday in a confined manner. If we are to be able to resume normal life quickly, we will have to make very strong progress in our work in favour of the affected sectors. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u35	Finally, Mr. Hedebouw's last reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u36	Ministers, I am glad that you have pointed out that there is a problem in the workplace. This is a point that is too little discussed here. I hear we talk again about schools, children, young people, etc. But let me tell you, and you also feel it, Minister, that there is a taboo on what is happening in companies. I hear your will about the widespread testing in companies. I believe that this is a positive step and that it must be implemented. However, I would like to go a little further. I meet a lot of workers in the food sector (industrial butchery, etc.) Many contaminations and clusters occur in these places. Many workers say to me: "When I hear that some of my colleagues are contaminated, I'm faced with the complicated question of whether I'm going to quarantine and lose 30-40% of my purchasing power or whether I'm staying at work without saying anything." For workers who earn between 1,700 and 1,800 euros a month, this is a real choice. It's not a small choice. In Belgium, people should not be faced with this choice. They should be able to think only about their health and the health of others by quarantine without fear of losing part of their wages (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u37	Your time has expired, Mr. Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u38	Minister, unions have been negotiating for weeks to get pay increases for the entire world of work. In front of them, the boss gives peanuts! I don't know if you've read our study on BEL20. One can learn that 17 out of 20 companies have decided to grant a total of €5 billion in dividends to their shareholders. So this is not the crisis for everyone in this country! I'm sure it makes you think. Your party president also announced that he supported 200 per cent of the March 29 strike announced by the common union front. This shows that the lines are moving. We're starting to get the shock, we're starting to feel the anger of the workers, the strength of the world of work that pushes you in the back. Every day I receive messages from my trade union friends in the chemical, metal, Liège and Antwerp sectors. Minister, the strike of 29 March is not only against employers, it is also against you and your government! On the one hand, there is the discussion on wages and on the other, there is the debate on career ends. Do you think my former colleague at Aldi will be able to work until he's 67? If she works until the age of 58, it will be a miracle! Do you know how many times she has been treated with tendinitis? You don't know that because you've never unloaded trucks! Minister, what are you going to do so that workers can get real pay increases by making the standard indicative? What are you going to do to ensure that, at the end of the day, workers are entitled to a pre-pension at the age of 58?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u39	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the deadline for obtaining an interprofessional agreement expired on Sunday, without the possibility of white smoke. The government must therefore take over, which is why, together with the Prime Minister, you met yesterday with the employers and, today, with the workers' representatives, if I am not mistaken. Let us be on the right side – I apologize already for the tone of your partner, the MR – and recognize that the period is complicated. On the one hand, we have employers who are going through this crisis with a variety of situations, depending on their reality, depending on their sector. Some are very hard hit, struggling to hold on. Some have even had to put the key under the doormat. Others have never had better months than those that have passed. But many also have fears for the future. Therefore, claims that would appear to them to be as many extra stones in their backpack generate concern. On the other hand, there are workers who have lost their jobs, either permanently or with temporary unemployment and the impact it has on wages. Some have fears about their future; others have not lost wages but have been mobilized as never before and are waiting for a salary gratuity. Finding the right balance isn't going to be easy. But your party president's out. That was made very clear. My question is simple: as a socialist minister responsible for arbitration, do you feel able to be equidistant? Do you feel in a position to carry out your mandate since you have been instructed, from the Boulevard, to decide in favour of one side, that of the workers...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u40	Mr Prévot, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u41	Minister, it's the second time I've been standing here, so I might already be the pebble in your shoe, but that's okay. The social partners, as mentioned earlier in the wage negotiations, have now begun to extend. We just have to establish that there is not that much played or negotiated in the regular playing time. You are in favour of an important part of that, as I mentioned earlier. The trade unions want to put the 1996 law and hence the wage standard of 0.4% on top of the automatic wage increase of 2.8 % in the household waste. It is precisely in the greatest economic crisis that has hit us since the Second World War that the trade unions will therefore cease. Especially in the biggest economic crisis since the Second World War, the trade unions want to market the jobs in our country, while the corona crisis will cost us tens of thousands of jobs anyway. Over the last few months, we could not ignore the fact that there has been and is no constructive attitude in the trade unions. I understand that, too. After all, you have been refusing to take a clear position on behalf of the government for months, and now the chairman of the largest government party, the PS, supports the 200 percent strike, because it is not a strike against the government but a strike against the employers. By analogy, the strike of SNCB on 29 March would not be against the government, but against rail passengers. What's the point of that, I don't know. It is what it is. Mr Magnette is, of course, right. It makes little sense to stop the position that was not even taken by a government that has no backbone in that area. It's at most a federal government that's afraid to take a stand. Mr Minister, can you confirm here once and for all clearly that you will not increase our country's wage handicap vis-à-vis the other countries, and that you will not allow it in the context of the wage agreement? What will you do in the next ten days in the context of these wage negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u42	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the IPA is a moment and a major social event in Belgium. This is the time when the social partners agree on wage increases and a whole series of other things for the next two years. It is known how many people, particularly those with low wages, expect this change in wages. Among them, there are many workers, I insist, who were in the front line at the time when it was necessary to turn the country, at the time when it was necessary to turn health. Now, Minister, your government needs to take an initiative. Now is the time to have this debate. You have met with the social partners. What evolution do you see? Above all, the creative leads that you told us about, what are they? What's your status? How can these circulars provide margins of freedom for these social partners to reach an agreement? We urge you to support social dialogue. We urge you to create opportunities for it to succeed. Ecolo-Groen has always pleaded to make the possible indicative wage margin via circulars and thus to negotiate cyclical increases by sector where possible, in a concerted balance. In addition, there are other factors of competitiveness. Why remain wage-centered when other factors exist? Let us open the debate! Energy bills that are controlled, it is a factor of competitiveness! Companies employing well-trained workers are competitiveness! Workers capable of using the digital tool is competitiveness! Men and women who feel good about their jobs and earn the same wages are competitiveness and progress! That's what we want to go to. With the Ecolo-Groen Group, we will support you in all the initiatives you take and which will go in this direction. We ask for innovative and creative action. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed not the first time that I have spoken on this subject with you in plenary session or, on a regular basis, in committee. It is true that the functioning and outcome of social dialogue is an important and essential subject. As you know, with the Prime Minister and the government as a whole, we are committed to putting everything in place to make it easier. In this context, we first wrote to the social partners. After the discussions with them, we wrote to them to provide a clear framework for discussions on the allocation of welfare envelopes. We wanted to recall the priorities contained in the government agreement. In particular, we hope that social benefits will gradually be brought to the poverty line and that minimum pensions will be set at around EUR 1 500. We also recalled what is contained in the government agreement, namely the importance of fighting poverty. It is known that these wellness envelopes are likely to achieve these objectives. Together with the Prime Minister, we have also written and sent a letter to the social partners specifying the government agreement and the framework within which the wage negotiation of the interprofessional agreement can and should, in our view, be registered. The letter states that the government wishes to ensure a similar development of wages with neighbouring countries in order to ensure a good balance between purchasing power and competitiveness. The government is willing to work with circular letters if the social partners jointly make a concrete proposal for this. This is in line with one of the concerns expressed by Mrs Cornet. The exceptional and temporary arrangements taken during the corona crisis with regard to working conditions shall not be deducted from the maximum margin available. We are thinking, for example, of vaccination leave or telework measures. We must also pay attention to the limited number of companies that have just performed very well during the corona crisis. For these companies, a solution can be sought to do something extra once in a while. It is also, I think, what I heard in the mouth of Mr Prévot, Mrs Cornet and some party presidents and not just mine. As you recalled, Mr Prévot, the report of the Central Economic Council was published on 14 January 2020. The 1996 law provides that, if there is no agreement between the social partners within two months of the publication of this report, the government does not take over directly but invites the social partners to consult. You may have read in the press or heard that yesterday afternoon we met with the Prime Minister, the representatives of the employers and, at the end of this plenary session, we will meet with the workers' representatives. Our aim is to listen to the two banks, as I have already been able to do in the first phase, which has given rise to the various letters and exchanges with the social partners. We want to listen to the two benches before we can formulate a mediation proposal. It is important to hear and understand the content of the differences but also the possible points of convergence and debate between the social partners. This is important for us before we make this compromise proposal. We also want to see if the discussions are permanently blocked, or if they require mediation or just a small boost from the government. Indeed, the government as a whole considers that social consultation is fundamental in general and even more so today, in the particularly troubled and uncertain situation in which we find ourselves, in which companies are located and in which the world of work as a whole is located. I will continue to make every effort to ensure that an agreement is possible, by putting on the table the possibility of finding constructive solutions between the social partners. With regard to the action or strike movement of 29 March 2021, I have already been able to express myself in this rostrum, telling you that a day of strike is always a record of failure. This is the failure of a concertation. It is the failure of a dialogue, but it is also a means of action which is recognized and enshrined in our law and which must be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u44	Madam President, on March 29, there will be a strike on the common union front against the employer, but also against you, Minister, and against your government. Today, what is preventing the increase in workers' wages is the 1996 law which was passed here and which prevents workers from having their dues. It's one thing. A second thing is that workers do not need counterfeits: circulars, bonuses, etc. No! They want structural increases so that they can continue to refinance social security. Moreover, you are talking about the agreement on the welfare envelope which, in fact, has nothing to do with the interprofessional agreement. It was the Liberals who always wanted to mix the welfare envelope with the rest. I mean, you're talking about failure. You say a strike is the result of a failure. We have definitely not the same analysis of history! All the social history shows that the strikes allowed for the eight-hour day and paid leave. I call on the entire world of work to strike on March 29.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u45	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. You know you're someone I value very much, minister. I would like to make sure that your credibility is not tainted by the calls made by one or another, they were party presidents. I believe that you must ensure that, throughout your mandate, credibility is maintained among all the interlocutors with whom you will have to work. As you know, only a limited number of vehicles are allowed to consume red fuel oil, since it is more polluting than bioethanol, for example. In a metaphorical way, I would like to invite you not to put too much red fuel in the driving force of social consultation, to the detriment of a balance element. Of course, workers are entitled to demand more and better financial support, because many are in difficulty today, but the government must also send employers a message of realism and hope, so that economic mechanics are not more gripped than they are today. Thank you for the efforts that the government...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u46	Mr Prévot, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u47	Minister, it is true that 6% of companies in our country have done better this past year than the year before. Ninety-four percent have seen nothing but black snow. We know that the economy has shrunk by as much as 6% in our country over the past year. If the mass of wages were to rise, this would be at the expense of jobs. In any case, tens of thousands of jobs are already on the road in the ninety-four percent companies that are incredibly difficult. Then the trade unions seem to find it necessary to strike at the 6% companies that have done better, at the expense of tens of thousands of jobs. If I ask you, then, once and for all, to clarify the government's position that we should not increase the wage handicap in relation to the countries around us, then you will come up with the most harsh answer from your letter, namely that there must be a balance between purchasing power and competitiveness. I thought this was actually the purpose and finality of the 1996 law, which you apparently also want on the shovel. Once again, you do not accept your responsibility. This is undoubtedly woeful and will be at the expense of tens of thousands of families who need these jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am positive about your initiative to provide a framework for the well-being envelope and to immunize leave for vaccination. In the same vein, I invite you to consider immunizing also – why not – initiatives that would be taken to reduce the wage gap between men and women. Of course, I will come back to the committee on this, because the debate must move forward. Ecolo-Groen has chosen to pursue and support you in this direction, while remaining in the government agreement – an attitude that could inspire some. Indeed, as you indicated, some aspects of the file may still evolve. I am thinking in particular of the need to extend the debate to competitiveness and the calculation of the wage difference. The indicative dimension of the standard should also be studied in sectors where it is possible, in order to take account of current challenges and improve purchasing power while supporting competitiveness.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u49	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for more than a year now, incredibly many compatriots have been incredibly supportive of each other. Think of entrepreneurs who have had to close their doors. Think of the workers who stay at home. Think of families who haven't met family or friends for months. They're all in solidarity with each other. But apparently some dive when they have to do their part. What other conclusion can we draw from the report by the Court of Auditors that EUR 40 billion of black money is in Belgian accounts? Colleagues, the money has been in Belgian accounts for years, not in accounts in Switzerland or Panama, but in accounts in our country. Colleagues, EUR 40 billion is not only an outrageous amount of money that has not been properly contributed. How is it actually possible that for years it can remain intact in our country's accounts? That's only possible because the people involved think they're gonna get away with it. Let us be honest, this is not about the money of the small self-employed, who has submitted a few VAT receipts too little. This is about the big boys, the big customers, who are all too eager to see financial institutions come and who are not asked questions. Minister, the current government is making the fight against tax fraud a top priority. There are even those who claim that the revenue we have been budgeting in this area is unrealistically high. You now have the chance to prove that cheaters, who do not want to do their part, do not get away with it and that the banks must also take their responsibility. Do you agree with me that we should examine whether banks are making sufficient efforts to repel fraudulently money from their accounts or to declare it, and that if they do not, they should be sanctioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u50	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors' report actually confirms what we all know a long time ago, namely that there is some EUR 40 billion of black money in the Belgian accounts. That money was taken back to our country from abroad during previous operations, but was not regularized. We know the money's there, but we can't get it. Now I hear here and there talking in terms of low-hanging fruit, sitting ducks, as if that money is just for picking up. I do not agree with that, it is more complicated, but we have to go after it in full. From a fiscal point of view, fraud is time-barred, so the tax authorities say they can't do anything. The IRS may know where the money is, but they can't handle it. Criminally, the fraud is not statute-barred, so the justice system can handle the money, but does not know where it is. If enough specialized personnel are deployed, we can do it. In recent years, Ghent's parquet has achieved some successes in this context, which can serve as an example. In most other places, no or insufficient specialised personnel are deployed. There are other possibilities. Today we still know more about the money our countrymen have in an account abroad than about our countrymen's money in their own accounts. Foreign banks still need to forward more information to our services than the Belgian banks. Explain it to me, ladies and gentlemen, because I do not understand the logic. Mr Minister, it is about a lot of money and my question is therefore very simple. Do you intend to go behind that money in full? What instruments do you intend to use for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is one of my absolute priorities to ensure that everyone complies with their tax obligations and therefore pays taxes correctly. That is only logical, fair and just. I am in this loyal partner to pursue and achieve that goal in the coming weeks, months and years. Of course, the figures we have heard in the press this week are not new figures. They are already known to many of us, because last year we held hearings on this matter in Parliament in the Finance Committee. The report on tax regulation is of course interesting, because it shows us how far we are in tax regulation and where adjustments and improvements are still possible. In fact, it actually shows that we must continue the path we are currently taking. It shows that the current tax regularisation round, which has been running since 2016, is also working effectively. However, the problems raised both in the report and in various press articles are in the previous regularisation rounds. It is also about this that the Court of Auditors has made a number of recommendations. As you said just now, Mr Vanbesien, these are matters of fiscal limitation. It's about tax-depleting capital. That is correct, but we must also stress that these tax-depleting capitals are still subject to criminal prosecution, and I am confident that the law will act correctly and fairly in this respect. I also hear positive signals from the banking sector, which show that the banks are also taking responsibility for this and that they will continue to report to the Financial Information Processing Cell. In addition, I will shortly take additional initiatives to legally strengthen the preventive section. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that I am currently working hard on an action plan against fraud, together with the Anti-Fraud College. We'll knock that off in the next few days or weeks within the ministerial committee. In the context of that action plan, we also want to ensure closer cooperation between the public authorities and the tax administration, so that large-scale fraud cases can be better prosecuted. I hope that I will have the full support of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u52	Minister, as the corona crisis lasts longer, the question increasingly arises as to how we will pay the invoice for it. Let us start by ensuring that everyone does their part, with zero tolerance for tax fraudsters. I have heard you mention a number of measures that we have already taken. You are announcing them now, and you will have our full support for them. We are counting on you to do so. I would also like to stress that the banks must also play a role in this. I do not think it is normal for EUR 40 billion of black money to be kept in our country's bank accounts for so long. That too needs to be addressed. I look forward to what will appear in your action plan against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u53	Minister, we are talking about EUR 40 billion in black money that is in accounts here. With a tax rate of 40%, this means that the Belgian State treasury is potentially losing EUR 16 billion. So that money has to get the state somewhere else. Mr. Secretary, we want our money back. The vast majority of people and companies who pay their contributions fairly are always the losers of this deception. We owe it to them to make sure that those cheats can't sit back, but that they feel we're coming after them. Minister, we will fight this battle with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u54	Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, Bredero said it might be a mistake. A few years ago bpost was still one of the top companies in Belgium and we had taken over PostNL except for one hair. I think it's still understatement when we say the story's turned. Admittedly, the postal and parcel business is part of a rapidly changing world, but although the parcel sector has experienced a huge growth, our postal company could not take any of this, despite the huge deployment of the postal staff. I remember that the postmen at the end of last year and in difficult corona times have done the impossible to get the packages of the saint to the children in good time. A little later, they did the same thing so the packages could be under the Christmas tree. The 34,000 employees ran their legs off, but we never really thanked them for that. Three months later we look back at that period and get the quarterly figures, which are bad bar. This is a blow to the face of the customers and shareholders, with as the largest shareholder every citizen in this country, but it is certainly also a blow to the face of the staff. Madam Secretary, at the end of last week you sent a clear signal to the board that it could not go on like this. We read the rest in the paper. The board of directors finally made a decision. The CEO was kicked out, that's the beginning of a solution, but we're far from there. Madam Secretary, what will you do to give the customers and staff a fresh perspective?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u55	Madam Secretary, last Sunday Vivaldi fired the CEO of bpost. Bpost is an important social company with 36,000 employees. The Belgian State is still the main shareholder and you are still the minister of bpost. Your responsibility and that of your predecessor, Minister De Backer of Open Vld, cannot be denied in this charade. Madam Minister, the CEO was not dismissed because of the low wages, not dismissed because of the poor statutes or because of the high workload of the employees or because of the high prices for customers. However, he was fired because the shareholders want to get more profit paid out. One year without dividend payments and the CEO is outside, that's the truth! This may be said. The charade at bpost has lasted long enough. In the meantime, we're already at CEO No. 3 in three days time. It seems that bpost has created a new statute, that of aid CEO. Will this CEO also have to work harder, such as the help postmen with their low wages? I doubt it. Even before Mr Van Avermaet's payoff has been paid, some right-wing parties here in Parliament want to lift the wage ceiling for government managers. Madam Secretary, will Mr Van Avermaet be given a bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum If so, which one? What will you choose, a golden parachute for Mr Van Avermaet or a raise for the employees of bpost?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u56	Madam President, Madam Minister, since his appointment, the ex-CEO of Bpost, Mr Jean-Paul Van Avermaet, has been under attack. He came into discord after becoming known that as former top man of the security company G4S he might have been involved in illegal pricing agreements. There is both a Belgian investigation and an investigation against him by the U.S. Department of Justice. Both in America, where bpost through Radial has an important activity, and locally, the functioning of Mr Van Avermaet became problematic, given the investigations. However, the board of directors decided not to intervene. Meanwhile, a number of executives left out of discontent with the situation, bpost has problems with the parcel delivery and bpost is confronted with disappointing business results, which translated into a significant blow for the bpost share. Where the politically appointed members of the board still saw no problem, remained passive, and when rabbits stared at a beam of light, suddenly what could not be done earlier. The board was obliged to fire Jean-Paul Van Avermaet. Madam Secretary, do you have any confidence in the current board of directors? What will you do to secure the future of bpost and the many hardworking employees of bpost?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u57	Madam President, Madam Secretary, who invested in Deutsche Post in 2013, today has a profit of 140 %. Those who invested in the Royal Mail in 2013 today have a profit of 120 %. Anyone who invested in the Belgian Post in the same year, the year of the stock exchange introduction, has a loss of 2%. It is clear that Jean-Paul Van Avermaet made mistakes, but one person burdened with all the sins of Israel would not be fair. For me, it is clear that the board of directors and its chairman, who have been there for years, also have butter on their heads. I read today in De Tijd: "For President Cornelis, even a dog with a hat could become CEO, if he only spoke Dutch." I don't care if that's even a dog with a stick, but the point here is that the most important thing for President Cornelis was that he could keep his post. This fiasco has cost our country billions. The current board of directors also did not want to hear about the dismissal of the CEO. You and the Prime Minister had to insist. Then I wonder: what is an autonomous public undertaking? We may pay and finance as the largest shareholder, but if things go wrong, we have nothing to say. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Madam Secretary, do you have the guts to clean up? Do you have the will and the courage to start a clean slate and send the entire board home? Only then will peace and serenity return to bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to talk about the resignation of Mr Van Avermaet. Mr Freilich mentioned that bpost was an autonomous public undertaking. This means that we need to strike a balance between the autonomous management of such a company and the interest of the Belgian State, that is to say that we are a majority shareholder and that we are seeking social added value through the management agreement. This means that direct intervention in management is not actually possible for the government. The autonomy of public enterprises is laid down by law. Over the past, weeks and months until last weekend, the balance of confidence in the CEO has been tilted. The resignation of Mr Van Avermaet by the board of directors cannot be reduced to just one element, for example the annual figures. Mrs Vindevoghel, Mr Van Avermaet was certainly not fired because the shareholders were dissatisfied with the figures. That's why a CEO doesn't get fired. It is a combination of different elements. The investigation hung above his head like a sword of Damocles and was accompanied by a duty of transparency to the board of directors. This has been the subject of discussion and the confidence of the board in Mr Van Avermaet has been reduced over time. The higher framework, the staff, a number of managers who left, the workers who were worried, of course the financial markets because of the figures, and also the government, have lost confidence at some point. Then the situation is tilted and it has happened quickly. This has led to our signal to the board that the situation was no longer sustainable. Last Sunday, the board of directors decided forcefully and unanimously that confidence in the CEO would be abandoned. The Governing Council also unanimously decided on Tuesday to appoint Mr Dirk Tirez ad interim in order to ensure continuity and bring back the peace and quiet, including social calm, you may have read that the trade unions had suspended the social dialogue. In fact, I see the unions for a meeting in the next few days. The image of the company, which is so important to the State, must not be damaged. That is why it is important that we take the helm back now. Mr Tirez will do that to us in the coming months. He knows the company well. You probably read about that, too. It is essential that the company is managed in a sustainable way in a changing market, where packages are becoming increasingly important and letters are becoming less important. For me, sustainability means sustainable in three areas: economically sustainable, socially sustainable and, of course, environmentally sustainable. These are the plans that bpost has on the table and which it will work on in the future. Mr Freilich, you asked if we had any confidence in the board of directors. I have already responded to that on Monday, asking that, first things first, now that the CEO has left us and someone has been appointed ad interim, give him time to rest, to take control of the company again, and to give the investors and the government time to give confidence. We will examine the composition of the board of directors. A number of people will be replaced. That is on the agenda, because their mandate expires. There's a general meeting in two months, May. Then we'll see what's needed. At the moment, the board of directors will remain under the direction of Mr Cornelis and Mr Tirez will manage the company as CEO. Finally, the future is full of challenges for a company like bpost. Believe me, in the last few days I have talked to a lot of people and I continue to have full confidence in the more than 36,000 employees of bpost, who shape the company and perform an important social function. Together with them and with everyone in charge of that company, we must look forward to the future. I have faith in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u59	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply, your commitment and the actions taken and thank you for expressing confidence. It is now up to the Governing Board to draw conclusions as well. The Management Board should fully assume its role so that bpost can take a new start under a new leadership as soon as possible and is ready for the huge challenges facing the company. The enormous commitment of bpost staff must be rewarded, so that we also regain their trust.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u60	Madam Secretary, a CEO is usually dismissed because there are bad figures. A year ago I asked questions here in the Chamber about Mr Van Avermaet because of the ongoing investigations, but then there was no problem. Now suddenly, while bpost is making bad grades, the CEO gets fired. I think it's kind of weird timing. Madam Secretary, you say that you consider the social and social importance of bpost to be very important. Even so, you can turn it into a public company, where it is good for the employees. At present there are many different statutes for the staff and the staff are broken. Allow me to give an example of the situation at PostNL. I am also addressing the N-VA, who wants to privatise and liberalise everything. This afternoon I contacted another employee of PostNL. PostNL employees are, firstly, almost all false self-employed and, secondly, they work at very low wages of €8.25 per hour. Most PostNL employees work part-time. We are not in favour of a system like PostNL. We are in favour of a well-run public company with good employee statutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u61	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. While the Vivialdi government is busy distributing well-paid political posts, the situation with the taxpayer-funded bpost has been completely derailed. For the Flemish interest it is clear that the failing board of directors bears a crushing responsibility. The chairman, Mr Cornelis, did not even think it necessary to communicate with the other board members about the letters you had sent in the file. Not the distribution of lucrative appointments or posts should be your priority, but the failure of political friends on the board of directors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u62	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the whole malaise started at bpost when PS headpiece Paul Magnette got mixed up in the story in 2013. He demanded that Johnny Thijs turn in on his bet, no matter what happened. Johnny Thijs was the CEO who had pushed bpost to unprecedented profits. Meanwhile, Bpost has lost up to EUR 4 billion. The same Paul Magnette demands another place at the table today. He wants to appoint the next Chairman of the Management Board. The Belgique-à-papa is back. Instead of privatising the company, as has been successfully done in Germany, the Netherlands and elsewhere, it is now being dragged into the depths again with the support of the liberal party Open Vld. That's incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u63	Minister, it will be 22 March next Monday. It is then day by day five years since Islamic terror sowed death and destruction in Zaventem airport and in the Brussels metro. There have been deaths of Islam terror in this country since then. That happened smaller, not by bombs but by machetes, kalashnikovs and you name it. The victims were also often police officers. Looking at the number of attacks of Islam terror in recent years, it is remarkable to note that last year, in the 2020 corona year, more attacks took place in more countries. This time it was not about returned IS fighters like Zaventem and the Brussels metro but about failed movers. Except for one, all the perpetrators of last year's attacks are not so-called lone wolves, they all had networks for their planning. A recent UN report warns that once the corona pandemic has ended, terror will flare up again. The terrorists will also come out of their quarters again. Mr Minister, are we prepared for that? If so, how? I'll come back to the victims, too. Five years after the date, they have still not received their compensation in full. I questioned you about this last week and you mentioned the work of the parliamentary committee of inquiry and its recommendations in your reply. However, you were silent about an important recommendation from that committee of inquiry, the guarantee fund for the victims. This week we have heard that this guarantee fund is not going to be available at all. Minister, I would have liked to have been given a little more explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u64	Minister, we are indeed on the eve of 22 March. Five years ago, we faced the terrorists of the Islamic State in an inhuman manner, resulting in 32 deaths, 340 injuries and countless indirect victims. The N-VA always wanted to take hard action against those terrorists. Why shouldn't we? We must not feel sorry for them: we must give heavier and longer penalties and we must take away the Belgian nationality which they do not deserve, but everything fell on a cold stone here. Yesterday there was a great election victory of the VVD in the Netherlands, the real liberals. They have included the taking of the nationality of Dutch Syrian fighters in their election programme. Whoever went there to fight, let them there, judge them there, both men and women. No, we're also going to actively repatriate the women. It is true that we must also show our hearts to the victims. I would like to congratulate and thank you in that context, because at the beginning of this week you have reached out to them: you want to support the victim's association. She can also identify unique escorts, no matter what the victims ask. They need it sincerely. You give with one hand, but you take with the other hand, because today we read that the guarantee fund is no longer mentioned in the government, and that at a time when we are reading day in, day in press releases with titles such as: 'The struggle for my medical bills has struck me more mentally than the bullet of that terrorist'. Today, fourteen global subpoenas are sent to the Chamber and Senate and to the Prime Minister by a lawyer who himself has fallen victim and who has had enough to stand in the cold. Does the government itself notice that the pendulum is going crazy? Meanwhile, we read that the security services are warning us that the terrorists of the Islamic State are regrouping. How are you defending us against future threats from these terrorists, because COVID-19 is not playing with them? I hope this is the same for you and your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed on the eve of the commemoration of five years of attacks in Zaventem and Maalbeek. That is a terrible period that everyone has signed, and especially the victims. It's also a period from which we've learned a lot. Tomorrow we will have a detailed debate on this in the Joint Committee on Internal Affairs and Justice, but I think we can reach a conclusion today. That is that our security and intelligence services have become much more robust. I quote the top man of state security in a book that has recently appeared: "The progress is palpable to this day. In particular, we have learned to share information on terrorism more systematically with other actors in the security chain." Meanwhile, the safety level was reduced to 2. That means the threat is unlikely. There is reason to be alert, but there is no reason for complacency, because the work of our security services has not become easier. The threat today is mainly based on lone actors, especially vulnerable figures who are manipulated from behind their screen by extremist ideologies. IS may no longer exist as a caliphate, the jihadist ideology has not lost any strength. In 2019 and 2020, in Western Europe, especially in France and England, some fifteen attacks by a so-called lone actor were foiled. This has also happened in our country. Our guiding principles in the fight are the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. Our principle is the safety of our people. The fact that these are not empty words is demonstrated by the fact that as many as 468 people have been convicted of terrorism in our country since 2015. The backbone of our approach is the terrorist list. The services now work more with each other instead of against each other. Local authorities are now systematically informed and involved. Even in our prisons, terrorists are being better followed. We're going to do that by providing a local integral security cell in every prison. In this way, we want to make the reintegration and the disengagement work. Ladies and gentlemen, I also read in the article to which Mrs Pas refers that 45% of those released would be prepared to violence. I can tell you very clearly that our security services are formally contradicting this. Mr Metsu also refers to Syria and the mothers who reside there. It is precisely in the interests of our national security that this government has decided to bring back the children under 12 years of age and the mothers who have renounced IS ideology from the camps. Why is that in the interests of our safety? I quote the OCAD: 'The issue of women and children in the Kurdish camps remains an important catalyst for radicalisation in our country. The theme is a common thread in many files dealt with by the security services." In summary, the threats that come into the security services today often originate in stories from the camps. With regard to the Guarantee Fund, Mrs Pas, this issue was settled in committee in this Parliament in 2018. At that time they opted for subrogation and not for the system of a guarantee fund. I refer you to that committee's report. There was then a debate and a vote, and then the Swedish Government, of which Mr Metsu was also a member, decided to opt for subrogation rather than a guarantee fund. My predecessor present here can testify to that. Ladies and gentlemen, five years after the attacks, we are better off than in 2016, but we cannot be naive. The danger is latent and the zero risk does not exist. That's why this government doesn't leave anything to chance. Our security forces are standing by day and night for our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u66	You say, Minister, that the recommendations of this parliamentary committee of inquiry are the guiding principle. You also heard my criticism at the time of what is missing. By pampering Islam further, it will certainly not be dealt with thoroughly. The guarantee fund is the sticking point of all these victim associations. It's a recommendation from that parliamentary committee of inquiry. The increased emergency aid from 2018 to which you refer is not at all the same. You're gonna need a lot more than a coach's long-sending to victims who've been in the cold for five years. I would have much preferred to hear from you today a commitment with timing, so that those files can finally be dealt with. Just on the eve of 22 March, they must hear the bad news that such a fund will not even be available. It's vengeful.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u67	You say, Minister, that we will have a wide-ranging debate tomorrow. Are you serious? We have 1 hour and 45 minutes tomorrow to discuss a 640-page peat. I wonder how much speaking time Members will have. Then I am a little homesick of your predecessor who has always treated both majority and opposition seriously. Then you say that for the sake of our national security, we take the women back. Yesterday we had a discussion in the Committee on Justice. Mrs. Firoud has recently been in prison for five months. She comes back from Syria and is convicted for five years. After five months, she's free. That should at least be under electronic supervision, but forget it, while all these victims have been waiting for help for years. In this strange country, it's exactly easier to be a perpetrator than a victim.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u68	Madam Chair, Minister, this week the Climate case is being heard. On 2 June 2015, more than 60,000 citizens attacked the Belgian state in court for climate inaction. They simply call for an increase in greenhouse gas reduction targets of 42% by 2025, 55% by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2050. By this action, they remind above all of several things. First of all, they recall that the climate crisis is the most serious crisis facing humanity and requires a response commensurate with this seriousness. They also recall that decades of inaction have led the planet to saturation. Ecosystems are collapsing. Extreme events are multiplying. Human beings are increasingly under pressure all over the world, obviously affecting the most vulnerable people first. They also point out that climate inaction has a human and environmental cost, of course, but also a huge economic cost. Not being up to date today will cost us four to five times more than investing now to master the disruption that is underway. Finally, they recall that, despite this, the objective of maintaining climate change below 2°C is becoming increasingly hypothetical, with all the catastrophic impacts that this implies. Indeed, since 2015, the situation has worsened considerably. 2020 was the hottest year ever and our emissions are not decreasing as they should. This Climate affair is therefore a crucial and historic moment. It is simply the fulfilment of the expectations of citizens, civil societies and experts who have been mobilised, sometimes already for several decades, to ensure that ambitious and supportive policies are carried out. Of course, since 2015, things have changed at the political level. At European and federal level, the objectives have finally been raised. Our government agreement is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 and to carbon neutrality by 2050, which we welcome. It is a very good signal but, as we know, having goals is necessary, but that is not enough. Minister, are quantified objectives for the 2025 term clarified? What a guarantee we give to us but especially to citizens, to the young people who are out there so that the 2030 goals (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u69	Mrs de Laveleye, thank you for your question, which, if necessary, puts the climate issue in the news. First of all, I want to correct some of the information that is circulating. I quote. "Governments do not recognise the rights of future generations." I would like to point out here, and thank you for giving me the opportunity, that the federal government does not in any way dispute the admissibility of the request, nor our solidarity or our political responsibility to future generations. That being said, and you yourself recognized Madame de Laveleye, water has sunk under bridges since 2014, and the world has changed. From our federal government to Europe or internationally, ambitions have been revised upwards. It is also, and among other things, because we have heard the concerns and commitment of thousands of citizens, organizations and businesses to climate change in recent years, that the federal government has revised its objectives upwards. I have begun a reorientation of our climate policy approach, with the federal government registering and assuming a climate policy based precisely on scientific evidence. As you know, we have supported the enhancement of the European emission reduction target by at least 55% by 2030, accompanied by climate neutrality by 2050. Therefore, there is no intermediate target by 2025. These two new objectives will be included in the European Climate Change Act in order to strengthen their legal anchoring. I look forward, by June, to the Commission's proposals on the steps to be taken to achieve these enhanced objectives, as well as to the presentation of the European climate architecture revised accordingly. If there is no determined intermediate objective, I would like to point out to you that on behalf of the government I am reaching a climate governance note which, as stipulated in the majority agreement, organizes a precise monitoring by assigned objective and an indicator. This will allow us, on a regular basis, to report on the situation and, if necessary, to correct the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u70	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I also welcome the objectives that have been set by the federal government. I welcome the fact that you are almost ready to have a monitoring plan to be able to assess, day after day, whether we are achieving these objectives. I also welcome the fact that you recognize our political responsibility and yours to future generations. I trust you to do everything possible to achieve the objectives of the federal government. We know it's not easy. There is always a thousand and an apology for not moving forward or not moving forward fast enough or for saying that this or that objective is not realistic. But we know that what is not realistic is not to live up to our climate goals. The human, environmental and economic costs, as has been said, will be too heavy. I really don't know how the Climate case will end I don't know at all what the verdict will be, but I ask you, minister, to be the voice of the citizens who are outside, to push where it is necessary fair and ambitious policies, those that are yours. Continue to do so, for all of us, but especially for the young people who have been mobilizing since 2019, every day, on the street (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u71	Thank you very much, Madame de Laveleye.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u72	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, as a lawyer, I am sure that you are in common sense and pragmatic, and that you will also be as a minister. You know that the federal government is funding a number of jobs in a large number of municipalities through the strategic security and prevention plan. They are workers who often act to fight, in particular in urban areas, against all the phenomena that generate a feeling of insecurity, and who are active in social districts. During the year 2020, with the crisis of the covid-19, a whole series of activities that this staff usually carry out were put in brackets. The containment no longer allowed for different activities to be carried out. And above all, in the face of the urgency, all the mayors of the Kingdom were forced to mobilize their staff and to reorient certain members of the Kingdom to carry out front-line missions, support missions to the homeless (to distribute meals, to supervise them) but also to the victims of domestic violence, which also had to be accommodated since the traditional reception facilities were closed, and to be monitored. In addition, it was necessary to contact the elderly, isolated, to ensure that they did not die. In short, there was an urgent need to organize a range of missions at the local level. Some of the personnel funded by the federal security and prevention strategic plan were assigned to these emergency tasks. And today, the agents of the Ministry of the Interior explain to us that, if the working time was not consistent with the reason for the subsidy, a refund will have to be made. Madam Minister, I urge you to exercise pragmatism and not penalise the communes twice: the first, by having to reorganise itself in the face of the crisis, and the second, by having to repay when they have made up for the shortcomings, sometimes of the federal power.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u73	Madam President, Mr Prévot, as you know, strategic safety and prevention plans support the development and implementation of such a policy in 109 municipalities. The principle of budgetary speciality, as defined by the Act of 22 May 2003 on the organization of the Federal Government's budget and accounts, offers very little room for manoeuvre. Article 123 of the Act also specifies the cases in which reimbursement is required. In this case, it must be noted that your question would imply a derogation from the legal framework which it is not for me to assess in my capacity as Minister of the Interior. There must be a clear link between, on the one hand, the objectives of the strategic safety and prevention plan, in accordance with the law, concluded with the local authorities and, on the other hand, the activities carried out by the subsidized municipal staff, regardless of the urgency of the covid-19. This link can only be confirmed after the evaluation of the strategic plan, which will be carried out by the Internal SPF for each municipality on the basis of an annual progress report submitted by the municipal authorities. Each mission ordered in the context of the requisition of staff or each activity which has been reorientated due to the social emergency will be assessed on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the priorities and objectives defined in the agreement concluded with the municipality. In any case, all the communal authorities in the country have made efforts during the health crisis to help the population. In many cases, they could call on staff, while others used the services of subsidized staff. We might wonder whether a retroactive adjustment of the subsidized tasks would be justified in this context. Finally, I take it from your question that it relates to a fraction of the grant awarded. A full refund will not normally be claimed in the case you describe to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u74	Madam Minister, thank you. I am a little disappointed because you are opening a door at the end of your speech by saying that we may be able to adjust the objectives retrospectively. It is true that we have been able to twist our arms to legislation for months when we had to deal with urgent issues related to the virus, but here it is a concrete case which will concern 110 communes. I understand the argument that the law does not give you this ability, but I would have liked you to be able to complete it by saying: "I do not have this ability today according to the law but I understand that the communes, for a year, helped and went to the front. It wouldn't be right to ask them to pay back. So I will, with my cabinet, quickly propose a small bill that corrects this," or "Mr. MP, quickly table a small piece of legislation to obtain this flexibility in the legal framework because, yes, I, the Minister of the Interior, think it would be logical and we can implement it." In any case, I hope that you will be able to grasp this outstretched hand because it will be important for more than 110 communes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u75	Madam Secretary of State, Sunday 21 March is the International Day to Combat Racism. It's an important day for workers. We've seen it in the last few months, it's all these workers who have run this country. I am talking about workers in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia, but I am talking mainly about workers in their diversity. These are the same workers we applauded every night. Every time we applauded these workers for a minute, there were twelve seconds for workers of foreign origin. Whether in hospitals, supermarkets, buses, one in five workers is of foreign origin. He deserves respect and that must be obvious. This is not always the case because there is discrimination and racism. I heard it from my parents, who arrived in Belgium in the 1960s to work in mines. I also experienced this discrimination when I started my thirty-year career at Caterpillar. In this factory, there were more than 25 different nationalities. The management was trying to divide us and oppose us. But thanks to the unity of the workers, we have been able to achieve good social progress. That is why Sunday will be a very important day. There is always discrimination on the labour market, on decent housing and on decent wages. It is time to take action. We have been waiting 20 years for a plan to combat racism. I hear you're preparing an action plan against racism. That's a very good thing. I also hear that organizations on the ground fear that this plan will not be ambitious enough and will not be binding enough. Madam Secretary of State, what are you going to do to ensure that this action plan does not remain an empty shell?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u76	Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, this week I was asked whether I would become a mayor of Marrakech. I first took this as a flattering comment because Verviers and Marrakech are indeed two very beautiful cities. But it is first of all a commentary reflecting an ordinary racism that today acts as a deadly poison. This poison is as much hatred as it is banalization. Madam Secretary of State, today we face a racist comment or insult as easily as a hello. This word is completely uncomplicated, totally uninhibited. There is a climate that is gradually being created, fed by some elected representatives, including in this Parliament, also fed by certain French personalities or editorialists, for example, who spread their loyalty on the news channels on a continuous basis. This climate has direct and concrete effects. When you are a parliamentarian and you receive an anonymous letter or a hateful message that sends you back to a country that is not even yours, my faith, you pass over and even receive many messages of support. I thank their authors. But for most of us, most of the time, this ambient racism is in silence, in the shadow, in indifference. This ordinary racism translates into more difficult access to housing or employment. That is why we must act. That is why we must stop impunity, which is spreading and undermining the foundations of a democratic society. In the concrete, daily struggle, what are the actions taken by the federal government to overcome this scourge? What is the government doing to tell the entire population of our country that Belgium remains at the forefront of the fight against racism? What is the status of the inter-federal plan to combat racism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with you on the need to combat racism, with a view to 21 March, but above all in view of the terrible reality of this phenomenon, of which too many of our fellow citizens are still victims every day. My priority is to develop an inter-federal plan of action to combat racism, with all the members of the Inter-Ministerial Conference against Racism. As you know, our country made this commitment 20 years ago at the Durban Conference. The ICD Anti-Racism was created in 2020, following a wave of racism, including the burning of the Bilzen asylum centre and the tragic drowning of migrants in La Panne. Followed a surge of racist hatred on social networks. We are committed to ambitious goals in various areas: work, safety, education, health care, the media, youth, culture, sport, housing. We will also ensure the cross-cutting coordination of the fight against racism. As President of this ICD, I can tell you that at this very moment all the competent ministers, accompanied by administrations and experts, are working towards a concrete and ambitious plan. We intend to adopt it this year and thus achieve in one year what has not been achieved in the last 20 years. However, the fight against racism is not limited to that plan. Indeed, the fight against online hate speech is, as you know, another priority of this government. Together with Minister Van Quickenborne and with you in this Parliament, we must really put an end to this phenomenon. Last week, I spoke here about a better recording of hate crimes by the police - which is also essential in the fight against racism. In cooperation with Minister Dermagne, tests of discrimination in the labour market will soon become effective tools. Colleagues, in the eyes of this government, it is not only what we are going to do against racism that matters, but also the method to be used. The participation of civil society is essential throughout the various stages of the adoption of this plan. It will also be implemented. We must also be prepared to listen to the people and associations concerned by racism. This week, I met a dozen activists from associations who inspired me a lot. Their views and expertise are essential. I want to be the best possible ally in the fight against racism: for them and for them, but above all with them and with them. I will conclude with a quote that reflects an essential principle of my policy: "It is not enough not to be racist; it is necessary to be anti-racist." In our society, where discrimination continues to flourish, we cannot simply fail to actively combat this problem. It is the responsibility of everyone to oppose discrimination and racism intensively. I'm committed to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u78	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. I hear you take the problem seriously and it's a very good thing, but you know as I do that the coalition of field organizations has given you a rich memorandum of more than 50 claims. They fear that Vivaldi will only consider it as a catalogue of good intentions and that you will choose some symbolic actions. Workers deserve more. The fight against racism and discrimination requires the fight for equal wages and access to the labour market and housing. It also involves tests of proactive discrimination, with penalties, whether for employers or owners. That is why I too, on Sunday, will be present at the day of action against racism.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u79	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. There is obviously a need to strengthen the legal arsenal. As I said, our enemy is the trivialization of racist discourse and the impunity that results from it. I only feel foreign at one point: when a racist tells me I'm a stranger. This process has a name: identity assignment. It's the other one, the racist, who tells you who you are. He locks you in an identity, no matter what you think. Do you know what I'm saying? I reply that my freedom is that I define who I am. I'm building my own identity. I would like to add this: what transcends the identities of everyone, freely built, what goes beyond them, is this magnificent idea that, beyond ourselves, we are all custodians of a very small part of the destiny of our city, our region, our neighbourhood, our country and even beyond. We are all custodians of our common destiny. That is what binds us together, beyond what we have chosen to be individually. This idea has a simple name: the name of a citizen. In order to combat racism, I think that we must first recognize everyone, wherever he comes from, as a citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u80	Mr Secretary of State, when you took office about six months ago, you spoke of yourself several times by announcing that you wanted more and faster return of illegal aliens. A matter which, of course, was to be welcomed was it not that the purple-green coalition agreement immediately excluded two essential instruments for such a policy. After all, there will be no law on residence in illegality and families with children will no longer be allowed to stay in adapted, closed housing units for a limited period of time pending their return. In this context, you also expressed a quick desire to work on your predecessor's promise to significantly increase the capacity in the closed return centres. Four years ago, a real master plan was approved for this purpose. This plan provided that capacity would be increased to some 1,150 places by early 2021 at the latest. At that time we have now arrived. Those 1,150 places are nowhere to be seen. At the beginning of December, your colleague, Secretary of State Mathieu Michel, even stated that these two new closed return centres would not arrive before the end of this legislature. When I questioned you about this in this Chamber, you said that you had the ambition to build these centres more quickly and that we could count on you to do a hard job of it in the coming months. Mr Secretary of State, those months have now expired. So I would have liked to have heard from you what the concrete plan is now to speed up these two centres. In the meantime, what initiatives have you taken to speed up the construction of these two centres? When will they get there in concrete terms? How many places will it be? Mr Mahdi, are you prepared to respond to our very constructive proposal that, pending the final implementation of the master plan, temporary centres for closed return should be set up, for example in former state guard stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have made it very clear that return policy needs to be improved and that we want to do something about it. This concerns both voluntary and forced return, because there is room for improvement in both systems. For this reason, the coalition agreement clearly stated that capacity should be increased. We need more capacity to optimise forced return. The master plan was approved by the then government in May 2017 and was actually even more ambitious in timing, as it dates back two years ago. With the master plan they wanted to accelerate that capacity. I've been visiting every closed center in the last few months. You talked about extra capacity, but there must not only be additional capacity, there is also a need for better capacity. I want to pay tribute to the people in Bruges, in Merksplas, in Holsbeek, in Center 127bis, in the Caricole and in Vottem. The staff of the closed centres and the people of the Foreign Office must work there in particularly difficult circumstances. People are often held there in circumstances that are certainly not the best. So we also need better shelter. You asked what we're doing right now. Together with my services, I've been working on that over the past few months. In the meantime, an extensive need calculation has been made. In consultation with colleague Michel, responsible for the Directorate of Buildings, we will finalise an integrated infrastructure plan in the coming period. That will then be presented. Good preparation takes time, but will help us to move faster afterwards. Presenting a plan is easy but presenting a plan that can also be implemented requires time, energy and the will to get there. We certainly have that will. You will certainly ask us about it in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u82	Madam President, Mr Mahdi, you will first announce that you are going to increase the return rates. After that, it appears that the government agreement states that residences of illegal immigrants should not be allowed to enter, that illegal families can no longer be forced to leave the country and that the government will even continue to give development money to third countries that refuse to take back their illegal nationals. You will then state in all the newspapers that you will build new return centres, to which your fellow Secretary of State Michel admits that the return centres will not be there at all. Then you calm people by asking for a few more months of patience to come out with your cabinet with a new solution. Mr Mahdi, we are again three months later and again there is nothing. In a few years' time there will be elections and that cycle will start again. You'll make a lot of promises and do nothing in the end. Colleagues, that is why many people have lost faith in politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u83	That concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u84	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Eliane Tillieux. Not related Without report
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u85	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u86	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1787/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1787/3) The bill has two articles. The bill has 2 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u87	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u88	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u89	This draft law was given urgency at the plenary session of 25 February 2021. It was discussed at the committee meeting on 9 March 2021.It was intended to deal with the draft law in plenary last week, but it was not possible because the written reports were not yet available, which was understandable, given the short period of time, but also because no unanimous decision had yet been taken in committee on the oral report. I would like to mention that on 9 March 2021 Mrs Yoleen Van Camp of the N-VA asked her to add her bill to the discussion of the draft law. The legislative proposal aims to introduce a language test for healthcare providers from an EU country in order to ensure the quality and safety of healthcare. As regards the conduct of the meeting itself, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health first explained the draft law. It includes the transposition of a European Directive requiring Member States to carry out a proportionality assessment prior to the introduction or amendment of a professional regulation, in line with the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The purpose of that assessment is to demonstrate that the measures taken, directly and indirectly, which restrict access and/or exercise of that profession, have been carefully considered, do not cause discrimination and pursue the general interest without going beyond what is necessary to achieve it. That directive was transposed into Belgian law by the law of 27 October 2020, but it was not implemented before the occupational regulation in the health sector, the subject of which is this bill. When transposing the directive, the Minister also made it clear that it was deliberately kept as close as possible to the wording of the directive, without imposing more rules or additional provisions than necessary for the transposition of the directive. The transposition of that Directive also consolidates current practices and already implemented proportionality assessments. That's important to remember. Moreover, the transposition also guarantees both healthcare professionals and citizens that the proportionality test will be carried out in accordance with the safeguards set out in that Directive. I will not list all the elements that have been addressed, but I would like to highlight the importance of accessible and high-quality healthcare for citizens and patients. This has been clearly included as a general objective. It concerns indirect and direct measures, i.e. measures which can directly or indirectly affect the exercise of the professions in the health sector. There is also a specific input from the consultative and consultative bodies which are traditionally part of the national legislative process. Other obligations are also respected, such as information and stakeholder involvement, exchange of information with other Member States and monitoring to ensure that the reasons justifying the regulation remain valid thereafter. It is also important to know that this is a late transposition, according to the Minister. The deadline for transposition was 30 July 2020. Belgium was therefore in default by the European Commission. In order to bring this infringement procedure to an early conclusion under the federal government, the Minister has therefore asked for the matter to be dealt with in Parliament with the necessary urgency. In the Committee on Health, Mrs Yoleen Van Camp of the N-VA also explained her bill that was in line with the bill. The aim of its legislative proposal is to impose a language test on healthcare professionals who are in direct contact with the patients. More specifically, it concerns healthcare providers from an EU country, because those who do not come from an EU country are already being subjected to a language test today. In the general discussion, all political groups expressed reservations, raised questions and clarified positions. I'll go over them briefly. The N-VA has said that the organisation of care can be improved in particular. According to them, the performance of the caregivers is of high quality. They also believe that caregivers should be able to help the patient in the language of the patient. That's why they wanted to know the impact of this bill on their bill. They also pointed to the potential impact and impact of the draft law. According to them, that's pretty vague. They also consider that a number of opportunities are not being used to solve potential problems. They also wonder whether the preliminary testing will not unduly delay the legislative work. They also consider it important that the patients and the caregivers were heard. They also asked for clarification about this. Mrs Laurence Hennuy of Ecolo reiterated the points in the draft law which are important to her. It also considers that the draft law provides a quality guarantee for healthcare professions. She stressed the importance of using the expertise of the existing consultative and advisory bodies. Mrs Dominiek Sneppe van het Vlaams Belang stressed that her group supports all initiatives to improve the quality of care, but she also made a point of placing the patient at the centre. She asked whether these patients were sufficiently represented on the advisory councils and consultative committees to give advice. Isn't the five-year evaluation too long? Who's gonna do the evaluation? What is the reason for lateness? Ms Nathalie Gilson of the MR considered that the draft law is very important because it removes unjustified restrictions on access to professional activities. She stressed the importance of the involvement of different advisory bodies and the sharing of information. She said that possible public consultations could also be provided for, inter alia, for patients' associations. Mr Robby De Caluwe van Open Vld had two questions. He wondered what one means by all the bodies competent to lay down rules which could directly or indirectly affect the exercise of a profession in the health sector or a health profession. Is this about the legislator? Should all legislative proposals which affect the exercise of a profession be reviewed in future? How's the procedure going? A second question concerned the Communities and the Regions, which are also responsible for transposing the European Directive. The question was whether they already knew which professions this was about. He also said that his group considered the proportionality assessment or the transposition law to be very useful. Mr Thierry Warmoes of PVDA-PTB had a fundamental problem with this bill. The idea is that professional regulation is a barrier to competition, which should be reduced as far as possible. For PVDA-PTB, barriers are just as important because they offer protection to both workers and consumers. The aim of the Directive is to limit this control by the public authorities and to promote competition. The PDVA-PTB Group supports a different vision of Europe and does not support blind confidence in the free market. She also feels supported by the European Social Observatory. As far as my group is concerned, I can be very brief. We believe that the legislative proposal provides for a faithful transposition of the European directive and that it will ensure greater legal certainty, which is important. The principle of proportionality assessment is good governance and can counter corporateism in the sector. We also think it is very positive that existing advisory and consultation bodies are explicitly involved for advice, which is not, moreover, binding. The Minister replied to all the questions at the hearing. I will not go into that further. They can be found in the report, with the exception of two questions which he will answer and which I would like to come back to. In fact, a detailed list of all the opinions requested for that bill was requested, including during the previous legislature. The Minister stated that he would seek this information and report on it at a later date. I shall come back to Mrs Van Camp's bill and the course that this bill must go through. The Minister said he wanted to see exactly who is responsible for that bill and what advice should be requested. Which brings me to the final reading. I will not go over the Rule-by-Rule vote. You will find it in the report. The draft law was adopted with 13 votes in favour of Ecolo-Groen, PS, Vlaams Belang, MR, Cd&V, Open Vld and sp.a, with 1 vote against by PVDA-PTB and 4 abstentions by N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u90	Madam President, as Mr Vanpeborgh pointed out, Mr Van Camp was responsible for discussing the draft law in committee, but she asked me to go over the points that are important to our group. First and foremost, we welcome the fact that a European framework for guidance for health practitioners has finally been put in place, but our group is also lagging behind with a number of uncertainties after the discussion in committee. We continue to feel that the scope of the draft law is not sufficiently assessed. It is not clear to us who will carry out the proportionality assessment, how their objectivity and independence will be safeguarded in practice and whether, for example, patient organisations and Parliament will be involved. Nor do we know what the weight of the opinions of the advisory and consultation bodies will be and how specific opinions on the contrary will be involved if this happens. Furthermore, we have not been able to consult or seek advice from patient organisations or care providers, which means that we have to observe a lack of parliamentary debate. The interests of patients and ensuring accessibility, accessibility and quality of care are also not sufficiently reflected in the draft law, which we believe should be the primary focus. We therefore continue to wonder whether and to what extent the draft law will have an impact on actions in the field that are urgently needed, such as language tests for healthcare professionals or the protection of certain healthcare professions, which are essential for ensuring accessibility, accessibility and quality of care. For these reasons, our group will abstain from voting on this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the PVDA would first like to address the current health crisis, which has been affecting our country for a year, if I may put it this way. If she has demonstrated a case, it is the important role that the government has to play in health care through the creation of unity, impact and well-trained, qualified, well-paid and motivated staff. In our view, this draft law undermines that idea and is the harbinger of fragmented health care, at the whims of the market. The consequences of the draft law are therefore predictable for the provision of services and care in our country. They're gonna go backwards. The philosophy behind the draft law is that professional regulation is a kind of barrier to competition which must be reduced as far as possible. We can understand, of course, that the parties that are on the other side of the hemisphere see that philosophy. We can understand that less from a socialist minister, although this is about the transposition of a European directive. The PVDA believes, on the other hand, that professional regulation is important because it is important for workers, but also for consumers, and protects them. This is the role of the public authorities, namely to provide protection, and not to be over-accounted for when necessary measures need to be taken. In this way, I come to a second reason why we cannot support the draft law. In the case of necessary measures or changes to professional regulations, it is obvious and necessary to do so in consultation with the people themselves, the workers' organizations, the trade unions and other representatives. In the draft law before us, they are the great absentees. We can't find them in there. Finally, we are following the necessary questions raised by the European Social Observatory in relation to the draft law. According to that body, the purpose of the proportionality test is to deregulate the internal market and not to ensure the proper functioning of health systems. This is also made clear in the draft law itself. I quote: 'The European Union wants to create an internal market and promote an open economic policy with free competition. The aim of liberalisation is also reflected in this directive, which is intended to transpose this draft law." The PVDA does not share that vision of Europe. After all, Europe must be social and solidarity for us. The protection of workers must also come first. We want a policy of social progress for all European citizens. Regulation is crucial in this respect, in order to ensure quality and access to care. The aim of professional regulation is, as it were, to protect workers and consumers. However, the European Social Observatory states that this creates a great legal uncertainty. For these reasons, the PVDA-PTB Group will not support the draft law, as we did not support the transposition of the same directive 2018/958 for the other professions into the law of 27 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u92	Madam President, my group's position is clear: we fully support this draft law. We also think it is important that this is approved today, given the urgency. I would like to talk about your position, Mr Warmoes. I have read the report carefully and I would like to talk about the Minister's reaction in the sitting. You read that in the report, where he says that he is partly in agreement with your comments. Regulation is important. Health care and its practice must not become a market. However, the Minister believes that the mobility of healthcare professionals in Europe is beneficial, because that is a reality, and an integrated approach to qualifications needed to perform health professions. It is therefore only logical that there should be a common European framework to assess changes to that regulation. He also assures that the importance of public health will always take precedence over commercial considerations. Maybe a second comment. It was rightly pointed out that certain opinions were not present. The Minister also said at the meeting that this could not be done, given the urgency, but he also promised that this information would be provided. It is up to all of us to point this out to him and to effectively request that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u93	Madam Chair, we have read the Minister's response. We will ensure that health takes precedence. This is the transposition of a European directive aimed at removing barriers and helping the free market. We're not in that philosophy. There is a debate with the minister and the government about their vision of things. We will be very vigilant on this point because our position is different, even if the minister has admitted that there is a need for regulation. The health care sector has nothing to do with a free market. I am surprised that the minister is not here. He certainly has a very full agenda but it would have been good to have a debate with him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u94	Thank you, Mr. Warmoes. To be completely transparent, I would like to point out that Mr Vandenbroucke has informed us that, from 5 p.m. onwards, he could no longer be present in the light of the current situation. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u95	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1800/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1800/1) The bill has 14 articles. The draft law has 14 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u96	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u97	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u98	Madam President, I shall report orally after the end of yesterday's committee work on the draft law amending the co-ordinated law of 10 July 2008 on hospitals and other care establishments, as regards the application of the prior monitoring of concentrations of clinical networking between hospitals, draft discussed last week and last week. It concerns the exclusion of the locoregional hospital networks from the prior merger control of the Belgian Competition Authority. Hospitals had to implement the sector reform on the ground as soon as possible in 2019 and join a locoregional clinical hospital network. The Minister explained that several umbrella organisations such as Zorgnet-Icuro, Santhea, GIBBIS and UNESSA were involved in the preparatory work and supported the draft. Several colleagues spoke to express concerns and referred to the risks associated with the lack of prior supervision. Mrs Gijbels pointed out, for example, that the proportionality and impact of the draft should be further examined, including the patient's interests. She also asked for additional advice and asked about the views of healthcare providers, patient associations and health insurance funds. She also made the comparison with the Netherlands and called herself in favour of the role of the competition authority for the health sector on a Dutch basis, as Mr De Caluwe. Mrs Creemers pointed out that the BMA may not be the most appropriate control entity in the hospital context. Wouldn't it be better for KCE, for example, to carry out regular monitoring? Mr Prévot referred to existing and future hospital cooperation. There's 25 now. He asked what the impact of the design is on the situation today and in the future? Mr Creyelman referred to possible power relations in networks and asked what could be the result of the patient's concern, while Mr Warmoes had very specific questions about how the BMA will conduct the control procedure. Mr Bacquelaine and Mrs Muylle expressed their support for the design and focused on the objective of accessible, quality and affordable care. They also saw a limited impact on competition on the networks and referred to the strict regulatory framework and patient freedom. Colleagues De Caluwé and Vanpeborgh expressed their support for the design, but also called for vigilance, especially when it comes to accessibility and tariff security for the patient. At the time of the article-by-article discussion, Mr Gijbels tabled an amendment aimed at allowing the waiver of the exemption from prior merger control in any subsequent modification of a locoregional clinical hospital network. It was important for her that a preliminary assessment of the impact of the change could be made. However, that amendment was rejected by 12 votes to 5. Mr Gijbels asked for a second reading of the draft and it took place yesterday. A number of points of view were repeated last week. The draft was adopted with 12 votes in favour and 5 abstentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u99	Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Muylle for the report. On behalf of our group, I would like to return to a number of points. This draft law seeks to remove hospital networks from prior merger control by the Competition Authority. We have some reservations about this. In the short time we had to study the draft law, it was difficult to assess its impact. We would have liked to have heard the views of all those involved, in particular the patient organisations, the doctors and the insurance institutions. We have also proposed to obtain the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. However, this was not addressed. However, we have been able to read the opinion of one body, namely that of the auditorate of the Competition Authority. This did not agree with the fact that the hospital networks could be excluded from merger control. At the same time, it indicated that the specific risk in question could be taken into account, which could be considered case by case. Account can also be taken of the specific context in which hospitals operate, in particular health care. According to the BMA, the fact that hospital networks operate within a regulated framework is not a valid reason for not subjecting them to the same rules as other companies. In fact, we tabled an amendment aimed at reintroducing merger control when the networks were further extended, but that amendment was voted down in committee. That is why we are putting it back to the vote today. It is all the more important that there is prior monitoring in the further expansion of networks. At the same time, I would like to stress that our group does see the benefits of better cooperation between hospitals. It is an effective method for achieving quality and efficiency gains. It also allows for highly specialised care to be brought together, so that quality can be gained there too. But for our group, the reason must always be to put the patient at the centre. This must also remain the intention and the driving force in the future, in a changing health care system. The KCE also stated already in 2016 that a medical competition authority should be installed in a changing care landscape. We do not have it until today, and we continue to insist on it, so that the patient remains assured of optimal, quality and affordable health care at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u100	Madam President, I thank our colleague, Mrs Muylle, for her excellent report. Colleagues, if this bill is technical, it is nonetheless important. Indeed, by allowing the exclusion of hospital networks from the prior control of the Belgian Competition Authority, it facilitates the implementation of the 2019 law and thus the implementation of hospital networks, thus allowing a better efficiency and quality of our health care. This exclusion is explained simply by the fact that hospitals are already heavily regulated and that prior control of concentrations is therefore much less justified for this sector. Moreover, the Belgian Competition Authority remains competent to investigate, for example, abuse of a dominant position or even possible competitive practices. All this was made clear during our discussions in committee. These exchanges confirmed that all collaborations, that all groupings within an existing network will no longer be subject to merger control by the Belgian Competition Authority, since they will be internal groupings within a pre-existing economic entity, as confirmed by the Ministers. It's important for the networks. As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, we will of course support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u101	Madam President, I sincerely thank Mrs Muylle for the good report, which she has undoubtedly spent some time in. To begin with, I should like to open the door: the Flemish interest is not against cooperation between hospitals, the Flemish interest is not against the objective of improving the efficiency of healthcare provision through hospital networks, the Flemish interest is not against any attempt to offer a more qualitative range of care through these networks. Anyone who tries to translate our abstinence in a different way will therefore have to pay for the effort. No one in the hemisphere is opposed to cooperation between hospitals which should make the provision of care more efficient and qualitatively better, even the Flemish interest, but that does not mean of course that we should not take a critical approach to the present draft law. The BMA took a position on hospital networks last year, which is hardly to be seen. According to the BMA, a general merger control is applicable. In the context of the current legislation, before this draft is adopted, this is actually the case. Whether that is appropriate is another question, but the government does not think so. Therefore, with this draft, the government is trying to close the gaps in the legislative amendment it made on 28 February 2019. So it's kind of a patch-up bill, even though that doesn't sound so good. It may be a bit short, but the locoregional hospital networks are actually nothing more or less than a government-imposed consolidation in the hospital sector. Whether the patient's affordability, accessibility and quality of care are the main reasons for this is a question I dare to ask out loud. However, as I said, the key question in this draft law is whether it is appropriate to subject hospital networks to the prior inspection of the BMA. According to the BMA, this is rather weedy, I think, and she refers to, as Mr Muylle has just told me, the power relations between the different hospitals in the network, in which several or more partners could play a dominant role or a dominant role. I do not dare to respond positively to the question of whether the design is for the benefit of the patient. As far as I am concerned, the struggle for the patient has not yet settled, not even in the theatre of the hospital networks, but the patient is now being referred to for additional, specialised research within the network. Maybe the expression 'old wine in new bags' is just a little too harsh, but it tends to be. The competition for the patient is not over and will not immediately pass, but he is now being played on a slightly different scale with the hospital networks. On a scale, ladies and gentlemen, the hospital networks are still relatively manageable today, as they are called in Dutch, but in the long term nothing will stop the growth of these networks. Large hospital networks, too large hospital networks must be of concern to us. Why? I quote our good colleague from Open Vld, Robby De Caluwé: 'because in this way the patient's freedom of choice, not only for a hospital but also for other care, is at risk'. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law not only deletes prior merger control, but also a check when the composition of such a hospital network changes, for example, when such a hospital network expands. Honestly, in this draft, I can't find a really good reason why it is. I could quote our dear colleague De Caluwe a second time, with the same quote, but I will not do so. Trop is a bit too much of a good thing. We believe that merger control is not an unnecessary luxury, just for the reasons mentioned by Mr De Caluwe and which we support. If not on start-up, then at least in case of a change in the composition of the hospital networks. In this context, it seems to me that the argument of a certain colleague that the BMA has no business in the hospital sector is rather bizarre. This argument ignores one of the tasks of the BMA, which is to prevent market abuse and to prevent de facto monopolies or near monopolies. It is true, I agree, that hospital services are not immediately perceived by the user as a commercial product, but of course the hospitals and networks in which they work do not escape the economic reality of their financing. As I said during the committee discussions, let that be one of the major problems. Ladies and gentlemen, there is therefore no prior check by the BMA, but there was hope that the government would take at least one of the recommendations of the KCE. In 2016, as Mr Gijbels rightly pointed out, the KCE indicated a number of conditions that had to be met by the locoregional hospital networks, as they are called with a very mouthful. Adapted funding was one of those preconditions. The monitoring of the quality of care was another. But perhaps the most important point made by the KCE was the creation of a competition authority for health care, which is responsible for monitoring the cooperation between hospitals in the interests of the patient. However, our good Minister for Health has already skilfully shattered that hope during the committee. Finally, I repeat that the Flemish interest is not against the cooperation of hospitals, nor is it against an improvement in the efficiency and quality of care. No one is against it, neither are we. As I said at the beginning of my speech, we will abstain on two principles. In the interests of the patient, we believe that trust in hospital networks and their functioning is good, but that control is better. As far as we are concerned, prevention is still better than cure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u102	Minister, we will support this draft. I have already given a number of reasons and arguments in the report as to why we will do so. In the discussion, I missed a bit of the purpose of the design, achieving the goal of the 2019 law on networking, in particular an efficient, qualitative and accessible healthcare offer. We all know that we score very well on accessibility and on the financial side of our concern, but quality remains a difficult issue. We do too many places. That's why we need these networks. The solution, which is before us today in the context of competition, or at least a draft that will enable us to move forward in networking, is timely. Indeed, the risk of losing months should not be an argument for rapid approval. In Flanders the networks are stuck and today they are in the process of finalizing. By the summer, many networks in Flanders will have to present a regional care strategic plan, but we could not continue in cooperation today. It is good that we have a solution to this. We agree with the content of the draft because we are convinced that the creation of networks has a limited impact on the establishment of local hospital networks. I do not think that this discussion can be resolved through competition. Some colleagues refer to the power relations between hospitals and often argue that there is a struggle for the patient within these networks. The regulatory framework for health care is already quite restrictive today, and both Mrs De Block and the Communities have already taken important steps. The framework for defining the tasks of care should be further developed and, in future too, the relationships between hospitals within a network should be defined. What is a basic hospital allowed to do within a network? What are these regional and supraregional tasks? This also clarifies the rules on the basis of which cooperation is carried out. For me, this is a step that is much more important, and I think that many colleagues will also find this a solution to the many concerns that have been raised today. It is true that a hospital network and care provision in this sense is not a commercial product, because it is a service to society, funded by money from that same society. The specific highly regulated framework, certainly well-known for colleagues working in a network or hospital, allows for limited room for manoeuvre within the locoregional networks for making their own decisions. In previous discussions, colleagues sometimes referred to the Netherlands, but the landscape in the Netherlands is organized quite differently, including private health insurance companies that offer part of the offer based on the insurability of their clients and patients. The comparison with the Netherlands is therefore difficult. I also think that the remit of the networks is being overestimated by some colleagues today within the regulatory framework as we know it today and also within the care tasks, which will in future be further defined by both the federal government and the Communities. The patient retains complete freedom of choice. The therapeutic freedom of doctors, resulting from the care tasks within the network, also continues to exist. All things considered, we can assume with our group that there is a limited influence in the context of competition. This draft law means that there will be an acceleration in the creation of the networks. In this sense, my group will vote in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we shall be supporting this draft law. We want to emphasise the importance of cooperation between hospitals in order to make our care more accessible and adapted to the needs of our people. Good cooperation is a step in the right direction to safeguard the sector from the free functioning of the market and eliminate unhealthy competition between hospitals. It also provides the opportunity to offer quality and specialized care for everyone. For our group, the ideas of the free market and, consequently, a competition authority have nothing to do with health care, which is better served by principles such as cooperation, accessibility, efficiency and expertise. Although this draft law is a step in the right direction, we want to remain vigilant for further developments in the sector in terms of reorganisation and refinancing. For us, networking must not be allowed to lead to savings in the sector or to the introduction of market forces, market principles and, if necessary, privatisations, which will ultimately prove to be detrimental to the quality of the patient's supply of care and bill. For us, this first step may be the harbinger of a second step, where we invest smartly in the sector, giving our health care and staff breathing space to do what they are good at, especially providing quality care. Our group will therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u104	Madam President, the BMA or the Belgian Competition Authority, in its opinion of 22 July last year, provided some commotion in the hospital sector. One of the consequences was that hospital networking was inhibited. That is a pity, because the establishment of the hospital networks was an express question from the government. Not by chance, there were reasons for that. In this way we wanted to achieve more quality care, more cooperation between hospitals, with specialists where necessary, in order to obtain more effective care. As far as we are concerned, the exemption from hospital networks is justified and necessary for the following reasons. It is the government that encourages hospitals to form these networks, with well-dressed reasons. As far as we are concerned, cooperation has a limited impact on competition. It is a highly regulated sector. It is a sector which, as Mrs Muylle said, is financed by public funds, by people for people. In principle, it is not about profit, but about the general interest. The patient is also better off combining expertise. Looking to the other side, the patient's freedom of choice is still safeguarded. Does this mean that we had no reservations? Yes, you do. We have indeed stressed the need to remain vigilant in terms of accessibility and tariff security. There must also be some form of control. I may have listened or noted poorly, but I have noted in my notes that Minister Dermagne has clearly stated that the BMA remains competent for certain issues that are being followed up and that need to be addressed. This is true, among other things, for non-profit organisations, which are separate entities, but also for concentrations of hospitals outside approved hospital networks. Minister Vandenbroucke also replied to the need or not to have a special competition authority. He noted that there would also be control, including through the reform of funding, as well as through the control and changes in the remuneration supplements and, of course, also through the adjustment and follow-up of quality services. We are reassured today. We believe that hospital networks can bring real added value, including for patients and society, and that they need to be further developed. We will therefore support the draft law. Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Muylle for the very clear oral report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u105	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u106	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1817/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1817/1) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u107	Mrs Gijbels, would you like to explain your Amendment No 2 to Article 2?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u108	Madam President, with our amendment we propose to replace Article 2 of the draft law. Article 2 of the Co-ordinated Law of 10 July 2008 on Hospital and Other Care Establishments, as amended by the Law of 28 February 2019, is supplemented by paragraph 3: "Without prejudice to the competence of the European Union and in particular Regulation No. Council Regulation (EC) No 139/2004 of 20 January 2004 on the control of concentrations between undertakings, the establishment of a local clinical hospital network is not subject to prior monitoring of concentrations as established by Book 4, Title 1, Chapter 2 of the Code of Economic Law. Otherwise, the supervisory powers of the competent competition authority shall remain unaffected." If a hospital network were to expand further, the control of concentration would indeed apply again in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u109	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u110	The next item is the request for leave to prosecute by Mr Dries Van Langenhove, No. 1837/1. The next item is the debate on the request for prosecution by Mr Dries Van Langenhove, No. 1837/1. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to Stefaan Van Hecke and André Flahaut, rapporteurs. Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and Mr André Flahaut, rapporteurs, have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the report of the Commission for the Persecutions has been distributed. Allow me to confine myself to a summary. In his letter of 26 June 2019, Mr Erwin Dernicourt, Attorney General at the Court of Appeal in Ghent, informed the Chamber of Representatives that a judicial inquiry is being conducted against our colleague, Mr Dries Van Langenhove. At the same time, the release decision was sent over under conditions after an initial hearing. In his letter of 13 January 2021, the Attorney General informs the Chamber of the end of the judicial investigation and requests the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of Mr Dries Van Langenhove with a view to the settlement of judicial proceedings. The attached final claim shows how the court judges the settlement of the judicial investigation burden on Mr Dries Van Langenhove. On the one hand, there will be a reference to the correctional court for the charges described below. They are described quite technically and legally in the report but, in summary, they are infringements of the law of 30 July 1981 punishing certain acts of racism and xenophobia, the so-called racism law on three points. Firstly, to encourage discrimination, segregation, hatred or violence against a group, a community or its members on grounds of nationality, so-called race, colour, origin or national or ethnic origin. Secondly, the spreading of ideas based on racial superiority or racial hatred. This was a charge against H, the first one was a charge against A. Thirdly, to belong to or cooperate with a group or association which clearly and repeatedly declares discrimination or segregation on the basis of one of the protected criteria in the circumstances referred to in Article 444 of the Criminal Code. A fourth charge, D, concerns infringements of the law of 8 June 2006 regulating economic and individual activities with weapons, the so-called arms law, namely an object intended to target persons with toxic, suffocating, tear-provoking and similar substances, in particular pepper spray. In addition, the public prosecutor brought an action for a wide range of charges. These are described in detail in the report. On the other hand, the public prosecutor claims that the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men is inadmissible with regard to the charges N and O, violations of the law to combat discrimination between women and men and the law of 22 May 2014 to combat sexism in public space. The Attorney General shall hold a meeting of the Council Chamber on 26 April 2021. The Attorney General at the Court of Appeal in Ghent, Mr Erwin Dernicourt, and Mrs Caroline Jonckers, first deputy attorney of the King's Office of the King of East Flanders, were heard by your Committee on 24 February 2021. Mr Dernicourt clarified that the investigation on behalf of the organisation Schild & Vrienden was launched after the Pano-reportage broadcasted on 5 September 2018. In that reportage it emerged that this organization had a hidden side besides a public side, and that more specifically in closed chat groups racist and negationist material was shared among the members. Immediately after the report, the District Court of East Flanders ordered the federal judicial police of East Flanders to prepare an initial pv. On 6 September 2018, the District Court of East Flanders requested a judicial investigation. Mrs Jonckers then reviewed the facts, the charges and the conduct of the judicial investigation. Following the presentations of the two magistrates, an exchange of views took place in the committee's lap. At the meeting of 1 March 2021, Mr Dries Van Langenhove was heard by your committee at your own request. He himself asked for the waiver of his parliamentary immunity and did not write a note. In substance, the following elements are important. The purpose of the decision of the Chamber is not to rule on the guilt or innocence of the representative of the people in respect of whom parliamentary immunity is requested. It is clear from the committee's established case law that it must examine the facts and that it decides to propose the waiver of parliamentary immunity, in so far as the facts communicated do not lead to the conclusion that the claim is based on elements taken from the air, unlawful, time-barred, arbitrary or insignificant, those facts are not the unforeseen consequence of a political action, they are not a crime with clear political motives. Where the Public Prosecutor claims partial or partial dismissal or partial inadmissibility of the criminal proceedings before the Board, as is the case in this case, leave must be sought from the Chamber. After all, the court which decides on the procedure for the administration of justice can order the reference to the judicial court and thus go against the final action of the public prosecutor. First of all, the Committee points out that the fact that Mr Dries Van Langenhove himself asked for the waiver of his parliamentary immunity should not lead her to automatically respond to that request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity. Parliamentary immunity is a matter of public order and is intended to protect the office and not the person. The purpose of Article 59 of the Constitution is to ensure the normal functioning of parliamentary meetings by protecting the parliamentary function from arbitrary prosecutions or prosecutions which would have been initiated with a political motive. Next, the Committee reiterates that it is its task to verify, on the basis of a marginal review, whether the request made by the public prosecutor is sufficiently substantiated. In the present case, the examination of the file in the light of the principles set out above makes it clear that the judicial investigation was carried out thoroughly and that the conditions for the waiver of parliamentary immunity are fulfilled. The committee therefore decides as follows. Having regard to the request made by the Attorney General to the Court of Appeal in Ghent, having regard to Article 59 (1) of the Constitution, having regard to the general principles referred to above, the Committee unanimously proposes that the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of Mr Dries Van Langenhove be accepted for all the charges referred to in the final action. So much for the report of the Commission for the Persecutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u112	Madam President, in view of the co-rapporteur's very comprehensive report, I shall simply stress the serene nature of our committee's work, from end to end. I think it's important. Finally, we stressed the very comprehensive nature of the work done by the Ghent justice in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u113	May I remind you that only the rapporteurs, the member concerned or a representative, a speaker in favour and a speaker against, may speak. (art. 160, para. 3, Rgt) I would remind you that only the rapporteurs, the Member concerned or a Member representing him and one speaker in favour and one speaker against may speak. (Art. 160, third paragraph, Rgt) Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u114	Madam President, it may not surprise anyone that I am against referral and ask for a vote against. I am not asking that as an expert in experience I had to pass the four-scissors here myself a few times, and I was not referred to one time or the other. I am also not asking in defence of Mr Van Langenhove, he is man enough to do so himself, and pride comes before the fall. Mr Van Langenhove does not even bother to defend himself, because he himself asks for referral. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask in a way to defend Parliament. I cannot get rid of the impression that this is an opinion crime. We are sitting here in the place of the free speech and in order to protect the free speech. As representatives of the people, we are given the power of our electorate, not our colleagues. Allow me to read you a small text on freedom of expression, on the art of tolerance. After all, this is about the tolerance of other opinions. "The art of tolerance is not to tolerate things that one considers to be good, but rather not to combat what one considers to be evil in such a way that the fight against it is worse than the disease." Where is the line drawn between criticism and hatred, between humor and insult, between accountability and hatred? And above all, who has the omniscience to draw that line? May I just confront the thought police of this plenary session with themselves by noticing that the person who thinks he knows everything is wrong about that. The prohibition, by law or judge, of indecent expression is in all cases a greater evil than the expression itself, in so far as it is purely an expression. The damage that the free word undoubtedly does is the price to be paid for the greatest legal good a free society has. Anyone who starts by legally banning everything that is indecent ends by declaring everything that is not legally prohibited to be decent. A free nation can endure a lot and usually tolerance is her best weapon. The Jew Walter Lippmann wrote that in the 1930s. If freedom is really threatened, it is a betrayal of freedom not to defend it with all the power that free citizens have. The left-wing American linguist and former presidential candidate Noam Chomsky once defended the French negationist Faurisson with the following words: "The right to free speech is meaningful if it only applies or is defended for opinions that are approved. It is precisely when it comes to particularly shocking opinions that run counter to one's own beliefs that this right must be defended more vigorously than ever before." Even with liberals on the steering wheel, our free speech erodes at speed. Inspired by an obsessive pursuit of a politically correct union sausage, through the dictatorship we slide from the word to a tyranny where the straitjacket and the muzzle are mandatory dress code. The free opinion is absolute to me. People are showing others that they're wrong and that you're right. That is the essence of the debate. That is better than a majority deciding what to say and what not to say. Each one has the right to an opinion, including the idiot, even the right to insult, except to call for violence. If we want to survive as a civilisation, we must maintain the right to insult, otherwise we will end up in the tyranny of silence. An insulting speech must be socially discouraged, but never legally. The right to freedom of expression is pointless if it only applies to opinions that are approved. Obnoxious opinions are a fire test for the strength of democracy and the principle of freedom of expression. Where opinion becomes a crime, the dictatorship knocks at the door. Where judgment of this opinion is passed on to the court, the judges are used as fig leaf for political fear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u115	Madam President, I will be very brief to express my disgust at hearing such words in our national assembly, in our House of Representatives. I had no idea that one day it would have been possible to hear Robert Faurisson, a gas chamber negationist. I never imagined that I could hear this sinister character quoted as a reference to freedom of expression. I wanted to express my deep disgust to you, Madam President, for the record.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u116	The committee unanimously proposes to accede to Mr Dries Van Langenhove's request for the lifting of parliamentary immunity for all the preventive measures contained in the final requisition. The committee unanimously proposes that the request for the waiver of Mr Dries Van Langenhove's parliamentary immunity be accepted for all the charges mentioned in the final action. Can everyone agree with the committee's proposal? Can everyone agree to the committee's proposal? No observation? [[No]] Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. The Court therefore accepts the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u117	At the request of the Committee on Justice, I propose that you request, under Article 259bis-12, § 1, of the Judicial Code, the opinion of the Supreme Council of Justice on the bill (Ms Katja Gabriëls, Mr Egbert Lachaert and Mrs Goedele Liekens) amending the Code of Criminal Investigation with regard to the audiovisual recording of hearings, No 348/1. At the request of the Committee on Justice, I propose, pursuant to Article 259a-12 (1) of the Code of Justice, that the Supreme Court be consulted on the bill (Mrs Katja Gabriels, Mr Egbert Lachaert and Mrs Goedele Liekens) amending the Code of Criminal Procedure with regard to the audiovisual recording of an interrogation, No. 348/1. The majority of the members of the House of Representatives must support this request. The majority of the members of the Chamber of Representatives should support this request. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request. The House adopted the proposal. The Chamber will accept the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u118	By e-mail of 9 March 2021, Ms. Yousra Benfquih resigned as an effective member of the board of directors of UNIA/MYRIA. By e-mail of 9 March 2021, Ms Yousra Benfquih resigned as an effective member of the Board of Directors of UNIA/MYRIA. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 8(6) of the Cooperation Agreement of 12 June 2013 between the Federal State, the regions and the communities establishing an Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Discrimination and Racism, an effective member who cannot for any reason complete his or her term of office, shall be replaced by his or her alternate. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 8 (6) of the Cooperation Agreement of 12 June 2013 between the Federal Government, the Regions and the Communities for the establishment of the International Centre for Equal Opportunities and Combating Racism and Discrimination, an effective member who does not terminate his mandate for any reason shall be replaced by his alternate member. During the plenary meeting on 14 January 2021, Ms. Shaireen Aftab was appointed as an alternate member of Ms. Yousra Benfquih. She will complete Mrs. Yousra Benfquih's mandate. Ms Shaireen Aftab was appointed alternate member of Ms Yousra Benfquih at the plenary session of 14 January 2021. She will complete Mrs Yousra Benfquih's mandate. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 8(6) of the Cooperation Agreement of 12 June 2013, the Chamber must appoint a new alternate member to replace Ms Shaireen Aftab. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 8 (6) of the Cooperation Agreement of 12 June 2013, the Court should designate a new Deputy Member to replace Ms Sharieen Aftab. Since gender and linguistic parity must be respected, the Chamber must appoint a Dutch-speaking female alternate member. Since gender and language parity must be respected, the Chamber should designate a Dutch-speaking female alternate. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 March 2021, I propose that you publish an appeal to the Belgian Monitor for a term as a Dutch-speaking female member of the UNIA/MYRIA Board of Directors. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 March 2021, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for a mandate of Dutch-speaking female member of the Board of Directors of UNIA/MYRIA. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u119	By letter of 10 March 2021, Ms. Valérie Arickx resigned as an effective member of the Central Prison Supervision Board and as a member of the Bureau, with entry into force on 1 May 2021. By letter of 10 March 2021, Ms Valérie Arickx shall resign as an effective member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisons and as a member of the Office from 1 May 2021. Pursuant to Article 24, § 7, paragraph 3, of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 concerning the Prison Administration and the Legal Status of Prisoners, a member whose term of office ends before the expiry of the five-year term is replaced by his alternate for the remainder of the term of office. Having regard to Article 24, Paragraph 7, paragraph 3, of the Basic Law of 12 January 2005 on the prison system and the legal status of the detainees, the Member whose term of office expires before the expiry of the five-year period for the remainder of the term of office shall be replaced by his alternate. Mr Raf Gerits was appointed as an alternate member of Ms Valérie Arickx during the plenary meeting on 28 February 2019. He will complete Ms. Valérie Arickx's term as an effective member. Mr Raf Gerits was appointed as alternate member of Ms Valérie Arickx at the plenary session of 28 February 2019. He will complete the mandate of effective member of Mrs Valérie Arickx. In accordance with Article 24, § 7, paragraph 4, of the above-mentioned Law, the Chamber must without delay appoint a new alternate member in the event of the vacancy of an alternate seat. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 24 (7) of the abovementioned Act, the Chamber should immediately appoint a new alternate member in the event of the opening of an alternate member's seat. The Chamber must therefore appoint a new alternate member for Mr. Raf Gerits. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new alternate for Mr Raf Gerits. Article 24, § 3, of the Act provides that the Central Prison Supervisory Board shall include among its Dutch-speaking alternate members at least two members holding a Master's degree in law, including at least one magistrate at the head office, and one doctor. Article 24 (3) of the above-mentioned Act provides that the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison taught to its Dutch-speaking alternate members shall have at least two members who hold a diploma in law, of which at least one magistrate of the seat, and a doctor. Since this condition is met among the current Dutch-speaking alternate members, this requirement should not be taken into account when appointing the new alternate member. Since this condition is met by the current Dutch-speaking alternate members, the Chamber should not take this into account when appointing the new alternate member. In accordance with Article 24, § 7, paragraph 1, of the above-mentioned Act, the Chamber shall appoint, from among the actual members of the Central Prison Supervision Board, a Bureau composed of two French-speaking members and two Dutch-speaking members, at least one member per linguistic role shall hold a master's degree in law. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 24 (7) of the above-mentioned Act, the Chamber designates a Bureau, consisting of two Dutch-speaking and two French-speaking members, one member per language-role holding the Master's degree in Law, among the effective members of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisons. Since Ms. Valérie Arickx is a member of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervision Board, it is up to the Chamber to appoint a new member of the Bureau from among the actual members. Since Ms Valérie Arickx is the only Dutch-speaking member of the Bureau with a master's degree in law, the new member of the Bureau will have to have this diploma. Since Ms Valérie Arickx is a member of the Office of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisons, the Chamber should appoint a new Bureau member among the effective members. Since she is the only Dutch-speaking Bureau member with the master's degree in law, the new Bureau member should have that diploma. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 March 2021, I propose that: - to publish an appeal to the candidates for the Belgian Monitor for the term of Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Central Prison Supervision Board; - to publish an appeal to candidates from among the effective Dutch-speaking members, who hold a Master's degree in Law, for the appointment of a member of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervisory Board. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 March 2021, I propose: - to publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of Dutch-speaking Deputy Member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners; - to publish an appeal to candidates among the Dutch-speaking, effective members, who hold a Master's degree in Law, for the mandate of a member of the Office of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisons. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u120	The government called for urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill granting workers a right to low unemployment was introduced in order to receive a vaccine against the coronavirus VOCID-19, No. 1849/1. The Government has requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law granting a right to small-scale treatment to workers with a view to receiving a vaccine to protect against the coronavirus COVID-19, No. 1849/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u121	Madam President, our country is affected by the serious health crisis of the Covid-19 and, in this context, the government has been forced to impose certain restrictive measures that have a significant impact on our socio-economic life. In order to overcome this crisis and resume normal economic life as soon as possible, it is absolutely necessary to immunize the population as widely as possible and as quickly as possible against covid-19. The higher the rate of vaccination, the more relaxed the current restrictive measures can be, which is what we all want. The bill in question contains a measure to encourage workers to be vaccinated by providing for a right to a paid absence and thus contributes to the widest possible vaccination rate for the population. For this reason, the introduction of this law cannot be delayed. Pursuant to rule 51 of the House's Rules of Procedure, I would like to seek urgent treatment of the bill granting workers a right to low unemployment in order to receive a vaccine against coronavirus. This leave is referred to as vaccination leave in the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u122	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u123	The government also requested urgency pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill on temporary support measures for the VOCID-19 pandemic, No. 1851/1, was introduced. The Government has also requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on temporary support measures following the Covid-19 pandemic, No. 1851/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of this bill implement the provisions of the temporary support measures in order to mitigate as quickly as possible the fiscal and socio-economic consequences of emergency measures taken to limit the spread of coronavirus. The Government calls for urgency so that this draft can be submitted to the relevant committees as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u125	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u126	The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law approving the Cooperation Agreement of 12 March 2021 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the French Community, the German-speaking Community, the Joint Community Commission, the Walloon Region and the French Community Commission concerning the processing of data relating to vaccinations against VOCID-19, No 1853/1. The Government also requested the urgency statement pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law approving the cooperation agreement of 12 March 2021 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the French Community, the German-speaking Community, the Joint Community Committee, the Walloon Region and the French Community Commission on the processing of data relating to vaccinations against COVID-19, No. 1853/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u127	Madam President, this third and final urgent request is based on the fact that a stronger legislative framework is needed to support the obligation to register vaccinations against covid-19, instead of the Royal Decree of 24 December 2020, so that this constitutes the legal basis for the processing of data for contact and selection purposes to support vaccination campaigns, which is currently governed by a Memorandum of Understanding of 11 February 2021. In order to be able to discuss this agreement on legislative cooperation quickly, we call for the draft law on consent and the draft cooperation agreement to be placed on the agenda of the Health Committee as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u128	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u129	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u130	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Health and Equal Opportunities Committee of 10 March 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities of 10 March 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 106/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Maria Vindevoghel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Simon Moutquin. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 106/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Maria Vindevoghel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Simon Moutquin. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Sunday is 21 March, the International Day against Racism and Discrimination. For us, this is a very important day for the unity of the working people. We've seen during the last year, during the corona crisis, who were the heroes that made the country spin. We applauded one minute each evening, 12 seconds of which for people of foreign origin. One in five employees in the essential sector are people of foreign origin. They deserve all our respect. It should therefore be obvious that there is no longer racism and no problem of discrimination. However, Belgium is not the best student in the class. There's still a lot of work to be done. We still see every day that there is a great deal of racism and that there are still parties that continue to pursue the distribution and control policy in the working class. I've seen it myself in the 20 years I've been a union delegate. Every day an employer tries to play people against each other by putting full-time against part-time contracts, temporary contracts against fixed contracts, etc. We want to go against the politics of playing people against each other. The 21st of March marks precisely the beginning of the fight against this divisive policy. We therefore want an important signal not to turn people against each other. Much has been mobilised and that is motivating, but after 20 years we are still waiting for a national action plan against racism. The area has a very clear question today. It wants concrete and effective measures. That is why today we are putting forward our proposal that we should finally make real progress on proactive labour market tests. The national action plan must also take into account the requirements of the field. I will therefore take part in action against discrimination and equality on Sunday, on 21 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u132	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u133	Yes 108 Yes No. [[29]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u134	The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u135	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u136	Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u137	Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be sent to the Senate as a draft. (1787/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be forwarded as a bill to the Senate. (1787/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u138	Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u139	Yes 105 Yes No. 13 No Abstentions 27 Abstensions Total 145 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u140	Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1800/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1800/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u141	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Frieda Gijbels on Article 2. (1817/7) Vote on amendment 2 by Frieda Gijbels to Article 2. (1817/7) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u142	Yes 44 Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 146 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u143	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u144	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u145	Yes 102 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 40 Abstensions Total 142 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u146	Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1817/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1817/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-18-definitief-55-plenair-ip093x.u147	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 25 March 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, March 25, 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
