ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u2	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on 12 May, Halle Louis De Grève, honorary member of the Chamber, died. He was 91 years old. After obtaining his doctorate in law, Louis De Grève joined the Chamber of Commerce in Brussels. When he was concerned about the social status of the self-employed, he then worked on the creation of the Solidarity and Guarantee Fund for the Self-employed Pensions, of which he became Inspector General after some time. From an early age, Louis De Grève joined the Liberal party of the time. In 1958 he became a municipal councillor in his hometown of Hal, a position he held continuously until 1984. From 1965 to 1970 he served as mayor of Hal, and from 1977 to 1982 as alderman. Louis De Grève has also been a member of the Brabant Provincial Council since 1971. With his election as a PVV senator for the Brussels arrondissement, Louis De Grève took the step towards national politics in March 1974. He was elected MP in the parliamentary elections of April 1977. In our assembly, he was a member of the Committee on Home Affairs, the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution and the Committee on Health, of which he was also President. In September 1984, Louis De Grève left politics to become a judge at the Arbitration Court, the predecessor of the Constitutional Court. As an eminent lawyer, he had a brilliant career there, which reached its peak in 1993, when he was appointed chairman of the Dutch language group of the Arbitration Court. After his retirement in October 1999, Louis De Grève remained for many years an attentive observer and an actor in public life. He was also very active in associative life, notably in his beloved Koninklijke Harmonie Sinte-Cecilia in Hal, of which he was a musician and board member for more than seven hundred years. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, with Louis De Grève, we are losing a prominent figure, who has always held high office with knowledge and great dedication. But also a passionate man, who worked tirelessly for his family and his fellow citizens. On behalf of the Chamber, I have expressed our sincere condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u4	Madam President, the government agrees with the expressions of condolences to Louis De Grève's family. Louis is someone who has lived a full life. Reserve officer and musician. Besides his position in the Harmonie Sinte-Cecilia in Halle, he founded his own music ensemble on that wedding party, as it used to be so beautiful, but Louis was mainly an old-fashioned politician in the best sense of the word. Someone who went into politics because he liked to see man. So it should not be surprised that he was close to his constituents and concerned with the people. You rightly underlined, among other things, his important contribution to improving the social status of self-employed workers and his role in improving pensions. With Louis' death, Halle and Flemish Brabant lose a prominent politician. Not only a former member of this Chamber, but also a former mayor, a county council member and senator. Louis is also the last judge at rest who died, who was a member of the very first Arbitration Court that came together on 1 October 1984. His Presidency of the Court was therefore a justified crowning achievement of his years of unbridled commitment to our country. I wish his family all the strength in these difficult times.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u5	Madam President, Prime Minister, all the lights are now in the green to begin the continuation of our defunction on June 9, as planned. This is a huge relief for all the sectors concerned, but if it is not to turn into a poisoned gift, it must be prepared today. However, you have decided to postpone the Codeco originally scheduled this Friday to next Friday, that is to say just five days before this long-awaited resumption. You justified this postponement by the discussions currently under way on the European Health Certificate, as if the next Codeco were to decide only on the issue of travel, as if the sectors concerned were not now in the dark. Because today, offices, cinemas, theatres, gyms and restaurants still do not know what ventilation devices they will be able to use. Some have already bought them without knowing whether they will be reimbursed and others have already invested in recognized devices for months but which, in the last ministerial decree, are purely and simply prohibited. In addition to this blurring to be clarified, we also expected this Codeco to be consistent for horeca. Not only is the record of these three weeks of opening the terraces under an excruciating weather purely catastrophic, but it will also be necessary to manage the closure of the interior spaces at 10 p.m. and the terraces at 11:30 p.m., which will make it difficult for both operators and the local police. Prime Minister, when do you intend to consult with the sectors and communicate to them the long-awaited recovery protocols? Do you intend to support companies that have invested in good faith in ventilation devices that are now considered non-compliant? Why do you insist on refusing a "covid safe" label despite the call made by the experts? Do you plan to align the closing hours at 11:30 p.m. for the entire Horeca?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u6	Prime Minister, 15 days ago in this same forum, I was delighted by the wind of freedom that had blowed at the end of the last Codeco, namely, clear perspectives for many sectors, which we expected, but also a return to a freer social life. My question was quickly about the specific protocols that should be implemented in restaurants, cafes, theatres, cinemas, fitness rooms, and I'm going through with them. Today, however, I am worried and I hear the anxiety and anger – it is his words – of the horeca sector which denounces the decision to postpone a Codeco originally scheduled for tomorrow until 4 June. Prime Minister, if we are to allow him to organize himself in a calm manner with a view to the reopening of 9 June, the rules that must apply must be known as soon as possible. This is true for the Horeca, but it is also true for events, cinemas, fairs, brocades, fitness rooms, etc. Five days for these sectors to organize is far too little. Prime Minister, can the health protocols applicable on 9 June be known as soon as possible, that is, without waiting for the next Codeco postponed to 4 June? To conclude on a slightly more pleasant note, you are aware that the football Euro will start on 11 June. It will certainly be an important event for our Red Devils, for our citizens, but also for many sectors such as horeca and events, among others. Here too, many questions remain and the mayors would like to know the protocols that will apply, particularly with regard to giant screens and the organisation of public space. I would like us to reassure them so that they can organize themselves and that this event is a great celebration for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u7	Prime Minister, postponing the Codeco from tomorrow to next week may seem completely trivial. I can assure you that this is not the case at all, for very many people in many sectors that have been hard hit for a year and which legitimately expect urgent clarifications in order to be able to organise themselves in the best possible conditions. They want to know what conditions are going to be imposed on them. That's the case with the Horeca. It has now been known for a year that the issue of ventilation is of paramount importance. The horeca establishments have equipped themselves: purchase of equipment and installation of sometimes expensive devices. It is only a few days from the reopening that your government takes a ministerial order that prohibits a series of these devices. You'll either have to see them again, reinvest them, or give up opening – it's a risk. In addition, there are many questions and questions: the number of people at the table, the organisation of buffets, the authorisation of plexiglas, the distance between tables, the opening hours. So many questions are still unanswered. This is also the case in schools. The Minister of Education refers to the Codeco of tomorrow, which will not be held. Decisions are urgently needed for activities planned in June, such as sea classes or day trips via public transport. This is still the case with culture, festivals, events and sport. These sectors are also waiting for urgent clarification to organize themselves, and not to have to deal with problems the day before or before. For them all, the postponement to next week of the Codeco scheduled for tomorrow is anything but trivial. Moreover, this is in no way justified in the light of the evolution of the pandemic. I would therefore like to relay and support to you their urgent request. Lighten up the shadow zones as a matter of urgency. Let them really get out of the fog, not next week, but tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I want to reassure you. The agenda of the Consultation Committee that was planned for tomorrow was not at all about the organisation of the Horeca. The agenda of this Consultation Committee dealt with international travel. Given that a European Council on international travel was held this week and that further clarification is still needed, it was not appropriate to have a concertation committee on this subject, even though the European directives are not yet clear. As far as horeca is concerned, what is the method? This was decided at the previous consultation committee. It was then established in a ministerial order which was finalized by Minister Verlinden on Tuesday, May 25, 2021; it was sent to the Council of State. This Ministerial Order contains information that provides many clarifications. For example, it takes a minimum of one and a half metres between the seats of different tables and a maximum of four persons per table, unless the persons are part of the same household. It is only about seating positions. Everyone must stay at their table and wearing the mask is mandatory for staff or when people move between tables. There's no service at the bar. Hours of operation are specified, i.e. between 8 a.m. and 10 p.m. This ministerial order, i.e. the provisional phase sent to the Council of State, was also sent to the Horeca sector. The latter is finalizing the protocols. We are waiting for the industry federations to send us their proposal for a protocol tonight. Once we have it, Ministers Verlinden and Dermagne will use the industry input to finalize the protocols. They have no connection with the Consultation Committee scheduled for next Friday. I would therefore like to reassure you; everyone will have the information well in time, before 9 June 2021, the opening date of the Horeca inside. However, I understand that the sectors would like clarification as soon as possible. Indeed, for the horeca outside, the information had been provided too soon before the date of reopening. With regard to the Red Devil matches, which began on 12 June, the Consultation Committee wanted to give the opportunity to watch the matches outside. This is the reason why events of up to 400 people outside, in accordance with the safety rules (wearing the mask, distance between people), are planned. It is better for people to watch the Red Devil matches outside than to do it inside with too many people and under circumstances that would not be optimal. Here too, details will be provided to the mayors, who will have to ensure that the organisation is as secure as possible. The agenda of the Consultation Committee scheduled for June 4 is for travel and other activities during the months of July and August. We can travel in July and August. Immunization is progressing well in our country. The question is how this vaccination and test certificate will be used to ensure that travel takes place in the most smooth and uniform way possible and in accordance with the safety conditions in all European countries. There are many subjects. There are travels, but there are also borderers for whom a whole series of measures exist and work well. We need to take the time to make this clear so that people who want to plan their journey can have fully reliable information. It is therefore justified, in my view, to move the Consultation Committee by one week. This postponement has no influence on how the horeca sector should be organized or on the organization of the Red Devils match attendance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u9	Prime Minister, I thank you for your answers, although I must say that they are extremely disappointing. Indeed, you persist in a logic of sectoral decoupling, while each space is different. In addition, you continue to place the sectors in front of the fait accompli a few days or even a few hours before their recovery. You're telling us that the protocols with Horeca have been successful. Still, some federations have never been consulted. And then, why today? We know that, for months, Horeca and other activities have been developing these protocols to now propose the "Clean Air Safe" label, which you absolutely do not use. In doing so, you are forcing women and men, who now have the rope on their necks, to finance devices that may never be reimbursed. Moreover, you did not respond to this concern. Mr Prime Minister, forgive me, but that is really not the way these sectors will ensure the calm and profitable recovery that they and all our fellow citizens deserve after months of sacrifice!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u10	Prime Minister, I thank you for having clarified the situation with this postponement of the Codeco, the holding of which raised somewhat doubt and trouble in the sectors – in particular that of the Horeca, which spoke this morning and to which a ministerial order was sent. In this way, it may be kept informed early enough. It will be a matter of keeping a close eye on it. Of course, we have argued in favour of this progressive exit plan. Of course, it's very positive. However, we must ensure that we systematically inform the sectors as quickly as possible. Indeed, they have made investments, which sometimes require adjustments. Unfortunately, we have seen that since the beginning of the terrace plan, the professionals of the Horeca have not been spoiled by the weather. Of course, the government can't help it. Finally, with regard to the Red Devils, I hear that the mayors will be informed early enough. It is essential to make this event a big celebration. To this end, public spaces must be managed optimally. In this way, we can continue to contain the pandemic and fully enjoy the matches of our Devils.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u11	Prime Minister, next week's Codeco would focus only on international travel. Surprisingly, when I hear the Minister-President of the Flemish Government announce on the radio today that he will defend at the Codeco next week a completely different schedule than what you have just announced. The least we can say is that fog persists. There was no comment on your part on the ministerial decree on ventilations, while it is clearly a problem at the level of the horeca sector. There wasn't a word from you about culture and events. Not a word for the organisation of sea classes for schools while the Minister of Education refers to the Codeco scheduled next week. Again, you've been late. Fog persists. You leave many of these areas in the blur. That is not correct on your part or on the part of regional governments. It is not responsible and it is not respectful of these sectors that have been cut off by the crisis of the covid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u12	Prime Minister, the separation of powers implies that we cannot talk about a specific judicial ruling. But I can assume that judges rely on legislation; we are the legislature, you are the executive. I am concerned to live in a country where people can be sentenced by a court for carrying a banner with a perhaps controversial position, but it is a position. Freedom of expression has not been invented in defence of positions that are dear to us, it has been invented in defence of positions that we have questions about. These questions need to be answered: a crazy idea must be answered with a correct idea and not with a ban. I have often heard the word 'hate' fall into the comments on this. I recognize that word. Last week, in this hemisphere, a minister of your government literally accused my party, the largest party in this country, of spreading hatred in French. This means that, in the logic that is currently developing, the largest party in this country is targeted to be, who knows, potentially banned. There are even initiatives by colleagues to ban associations. The free debate is not a question of banning, but of debate. Prime Minister, I am not asking you to respond to the court's ruling. I already know your answer: that you cannot respond. I would like to ask you whether you share the concern and, above all, whether the verdict wakes you up with regard to the initiatives that your government still wants to take in order to limit freedom of expression even further. Or, on the other hand, will you take initiatives to ensure that every citizen in this country can freely take action without violence, because that is where the border is. I am full of hope for your answer, because you must stand for freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u13	Prime Minister, justice is not the same as justice, but it is a firm exaggeration in Belgium. Justice seems to have started the attack on freedom of speech. There have been searches of whistleblowers in the El Kaouakibi case, in the Heeren case, and yesterday there was a hallucinant verdict from the Mechelen correctional court, a verdict that the defense attorney had to hear through the newspapers. In order to show a banner with the title "Stop Islamization," four members of Voorpost were given effective prison sentences of up to six months. Pedophiles and rapists rarely get that punishment in this country. This government wants to go one step further. With Van Quickenborne in the lead, under the guise of tackling hate speech and fake news, you are going to fight against freedom and liberalism. Of course, I respect the separation of powers, but this is a dangerous step towards abolishing freedom of expression and democracy. Today, according to that court, only Islamisation is to be advocated. You do not even have to agree with the inscription of that banner to realize that this sentence is a disgrace. Every Democrat who's read it finds it terrifying. It is not possible for citizens to be locked up because of the venting of an opinion. Prime Minister, opinions are disputed with opinions, not with judgments and repression. Do you think that the opinion "Stop Islamization" can still be expressed in Belgium today? Can we do that without the risk of prosecution? If not, will your liberal friends from now on also remain silent about the denial? Will you stop the Minister of Justice in his insane plans to restrict freedom of expression even further?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u14	Prime Minister, there is something rotting in the state of Belgium, an opinion has become a crime. Let's take a look back at the last three weeks. In Sint-Truiden a journalist was taken from his bed, in Bruges one was convicted for misuse of the right of inspection and in Antwerp even a whole editorial staff was shut down. Yesterday there was an unexplained verdict. Four men, from a club that I don't appreciate, got six months in jail because they wore two banners with the inscription "Stop Islamization" and "Is this the future of Flanders?" For that they get six months of jail time smeared on their pants. Prime Minister, Islamophobia is not a crime, it is a fear of religion. I think that is a justified fear, since we have already experienced enough in Zaventem and in Maalbeek. You will undoubtedly rely on the separation of powers, which is indeed correct. However, I have the impression that your government is becoming a champion in the mouth-killing of dissidents. Your Minister of Defense announces that she will select military on the basis of their political convictions. Even Mark Elchardus believes that there is no place in a democracy for a minister who wants to select military personnel on the basis of political will. That's not a statement from me, it's from that left-wing professor. Ladies and gentlemen, you both referred to the Minister of Justice who wants to amend Article 150 of the Constitution in order to correct the crime of opinion and punish hatred. Hate, however, is not a crime, I have the right to hate someone but I do not have the right to call for violence or to harm the person concerned. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I find it far-reaching that your government is also putting pressure on social media to block other opinions. The right to freedom of expression is pointless if it only applies to opinions that are approved. What will you do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome these questions because they are essential. Mrs Pas, I am also pleased to see you here today, after your total absence from last week's debate. Sometimes silence says more than speech, and that was very clear last week. It's good that we can talk about it. Let me start with one case, Mrs. Pas. Hate speech is not an opinion, hate speech is a criminal offence in our country. Mr. Dedecker, let's not confuse the two. Hate speech is not an opinion. This is not about opinions, but it is about cases that are punishable in our country. Incitement to intolerance towards people, based on their origins or religions, and even today because they are, for example, virologists, is punishable. It's a good thing this is a criminal offence in our country. This is what it's about. It's about making sure this isn't impunity. That is Mr Van Quickenborne's initiative. It is not about extending criminal law or restricting freedom of expression, but about ensuring that what is in the law today is applied and that there can be no impunity. Press crime motivated by racism is being prosecuted correctly, but all other hate crimes must be prosecuted through assists, which often leads to no prosecution. That's what it's about in the end. Mr De Roover, I want to be very clear. This government will take no step whatsoever in restricting freedom of expression, contrary to what you yourself said in 2016. You can look that up. In 2016, you said that the government must ensure that the borders of freedom of expression can be strengthened. I am glad that the government did not go into that at the time, but that was the opinion you expressed at that time. Let me be clear: I will of course not dwell on the ruling of a judge. Would you expect me not to respect the separation of powers here? The basis of our democratic rule of law is that the legislative and executive powers respect that separation. Respecting democratic rules of law, rules of the game, is to respect the separation of powers. This is not the case with judges, Mrs Pas, as a Member of the European Parliament of your party has done in recent days. He put a judge who has to make a judgment, with name and photo, and actually with the intention of indirectly saying: look how that judge dares to make a judgment. Is that the society we're going to? A society where people are exposed who actually respect the rules of our rule of law? That's what it's about! In the end, this raises a very essential question. How do we tackle challenges in our society? Do we face challenges in our society by increasing them? By throwing people away? By poking up the fire and setting groups against each other? Is that how one tackles challenges? Or is that going to happen in a different way? Does it happen by looking at the challenges that exist? By coming up with solutions and, for example, ensuring that we have a strong middle class? By coming up with solutions and ensuring that people who have worked their whole lives are entitled to a decent pension? By ensuring that opinions that exist can be listened to, but very clearly also indicate that there is no place for hate-sowing in our society? That's what it's about. Those aren't symbols. That's the reality of every day. That is where the real political challenges lie. The real political challenges are to find solutions without turning people against each other. That is the way in which the breeding ground for radicalisation is removed. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the government's programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u16	Madam President, Prime Minister, I am shocked, not because you compare the banner with its condemnation, on the one hand, and a plea from me to those who glorify terrorism, on the other. That was the line of violence I was talking about at the time. I'm not surprised you're spreading fake news like that. I do not like the fact that when we put your answer in a Word file in the report and turn it into a word cloud, it will be punishable in thick letters. Criminal, criminal, criminal, criminal, criminal, that's the summary of your answer. That is the summary of a liberal Prime Minister. That is the summary of the road to 'illiberalism', for which you will be responsible, by limiting the freedom of expression to what you call 'working together and being peaceful'. Your sacred government message seems to be the only truth you can support. That is a disgrace to someone who once called himself liberal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u17	Madam President, Prime Minister, the Flemish Interest defends freedom of expression. That is a good thing, with the censorship laws that will come with Van Quickenborne. Of course, calls for violence can't do any more than threats. We take that seriously. We are clear on that. In fact, we ourselves are often the victims of this. However, we do not want a society in which any criticism of mass immigration or of further Islamization of society is banned and where criticism of virologists is dismissed as a hate speech. For us, there should be no opinion dictatorship, in which a large Flemish right-wing movement is deliberately criminalised, because you do not get your political opponents down in the voting booth. Their taxpayers' money is welcome, but not their opinion. Prime Minister, for once, pretend to be liberal and protect freedom of expression. Guarantee freedom of expression instead of restricting them further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u18	Prime Minister, I do not participate in the semantics about the word "hate," because I could prove the opposite. A father whose child was murdered has the right to hate the killer, to talk about hate. But for me, it's not about that. Where will you draw the line between criticism and hatred? Between humor and insult? Between indignation and hatred? In particular, who has the omniscience to draw that line, Prime Minister? What matters most to me is that you are liberal and should know that there is a danger. The following I did not say, but a writer, Gerard van het Reve: "If fascism comes back, it will be in the form of anti-fascistism." You're right to refer to last week. If one is a Flemish nationalist, one is extreme, even far-right. Well, let me show you something. It's younger than what you blamed your colleague for. It is a photo, taken by Ecolo, of colleague Theo Francken in Nazi costume. Er staat op, Franstalige vrienden: "Collaboration with a president, accused (...)"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u19	The DDoS attack a few weeks ago is a blow to the newly established hacking of the Home Affairs computer system. The hackers would have been able to access the FPS Home Office's e-mail communications for two years. So it looks like the security systems of our computers are as leaky as those of the weapons depots at DOD. How is it possible that hackers, most likely driven from the socialist paradise of China, have been poking around in the FPS Home Affairs data for two years? Is that because our security systems aren't up-to-date? Is that due to an unseen nonchalance? How is it possible that something was not right for two years? What kind of citizens' data have they been gibberished by this? What are the dangers to national security? What will you do so that this can never happen again?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u20	We all agree that we need to step up our weapons against cybercrime. Despite the efforts already made by the services, we must also be aware that 100% security guarantees do not exist in the online world as well as in the offline world. Prime Minister, you expect us to face such attacks more and more in the future. I'm afraid you're right. That is why we must ensure that the risk of this is reduced as far as possible. If our systems are hacked, then no more sensitive data and information should be found. We have rules in our country on the dissemination of classified information, but no rules on what we call sensitive information. Strategic notes, technical data sheets on critical infrastructures and vision documents circulate between the services and the Cabinets. So I think there is time to look very closely at that. I am therefore deeply concerned about the potentially sensitive information that the digital spies have been able to access. You share my concern, because in the coalition agreement you literally write that you will pay particular attention to the security of communication and the transfer of data between the services concerned. Prime Minister, what information have the cybercriminals been able to see? How will you work out your intentions in the coalition agreement? What's the timing for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u21	Prime Minister, Minister, we can talk today about a real explosion of cybercrime. For more than a year, this has made more than 3.2 million reports to the Computer Emergency Response Team. It's twice as much as it was in 2019. The federal authority has a responsibility in this area to protect our people and support our businesses, but there is also an urgent need to ensure the integrity of our public services and the data they manage. The piracy that we are dealing with today will have lasted two years within the Home SPF. It was reportedly detected last March during a CWB monitoring related to the now well-known vulnerabilities of Microsoft's Exchange servers. It is more than challenging because the CWB already tells us that it is difficult to identify the authors, that we cannot really specify whether sensitive information could have fallen into the hands of hackers and that we must even worry about geopolitical data because there are suspicions of espionage behind this hacking. Some point to China again. I should not recall here the data that are being processed within the Internal FPS: police information, the fight against terrorism, data from the Crisis Centre, etc. We know that the means are lacking. Prime Minister, you also know this and you announced new measures for more investment in infrastructure and human resources at the CNS on 20 May. I hear we're talking about new strategies by 2025, but it's still today that we're being attacked by cybercrime. Prime Minister, what information can you communicate about the integrity of data managed by the Inland FPS since the beginning of hacking? Is there a periodic monitoring? If so, when was the previous (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u22	Madam President, Prime Minister and Minister, last week it was announced that hackers could look around the FPS Home Affairs systems for two years. According to the Cybersecurity Center, it was a highly sophisticated cyber attack, allowing the hackers to stay under the radar for a long time. It may be espionage, but that will have to be further investigated. At least it is clear that the new world, which is becoming a digital world, really needs to be secured and therefore cyber-safe. Prime Minister, last week, following the National Security Council's consultation, you announced that a new national cybersecurity plan 2.0 was being drawn up, an adaptation of the existing 2012 plan. The new plan must lead to a safer and less vulnerable society by 2025. That's very important. With regard to cybersecurity, we have a lot of expertise in Belgium, including in the companies. Both companies and the government consider better cyber security to be a priority. Last week you visited a company in West Flanders that was a victim of a hacking. The better you know how serious such an infringement is and what financial consequences a hacking entails for a company. In the case of hacking, companies and private individuals are often on their own. So we really need to protect society digitally. We promote the digital society. In the current pandemic, digital society proved to be a blessing, but it must not be a blessing for crooked hackers. Prime Minister, what measures did you take immediately after that hacking, at the Home Office or in the government in general? What measures of the cybersecurity plan will you implement, so that all stakeholders, governments, organisations, SMEs and companies are maximum armed against that type of crime? What role can companies play in this? In what way can we exploit the knowledge of companies? What is the best hotline, where citizens or anyone can go (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u23	Madam Secretary, Prime Minister, Home Affairs was attacked. In short, our country was attacked. Home Affairs is the central link in the control and security of Belgium. We have all been fighting for a year against an invisible enemy, the coronavirus, but apparently there are still invisible enemies threatening our security, namely professional hackers, probably driven by foreign powers. It's not the first case of large-scale espionage. In 2013, the network of Proximus, among others, was hacked by a foreign power. The then Prime Minister declared that espionage would be severely condemned and that appropriate responses would be made. Later it turned out to be about a hacking by the British secret service. A conviction didn't work. Crime is shifting to the digital world. I am concerned that hackers are entering key sensitive services such as Home Affairs. Imagine that safehouses would be known by hacking. If hackers continue to break into the government, our medical record, our social rights, our legal file might be too gibberish on the net. I find it very difficult to believe that no data would have been stolen at first sight. Why would hackers infiltrate for two years, where there is a chance that they will be caught, without finding any useful information? Mr Prime Minister, you said here a few weeks ago, following Belnet's hacking, that you would take action. Well, it's 12:05. Let's investigate, condemn and punish the hacking. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u24	Mr. Prime Minister, last week we heard that the Home Office was the victim of hacking. I have already asked you at the beginning of this year whether you have enough time to deal with the problem. You replied laconically that I didn't have to worry about your busy agenda, but the question I am asking you today, I submitted for the first time, and I am holding you on 17 March 2021, two months and two weeks ago. In the system it says that the answer remains due, because there is no time: postponed due to lick of time. So it is clear to me at least that we need a specialist minister for cyber security who can be constantly working on this every day. For our party, it is clear that cybersecurity is crucial. It is nice, Minister, that you also include cybersecurity in your work package with 150 other tasks, but can you agree with the logic that we should still appoint a genuine Minister of Cyber Security?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u25	Prime Minister, Minister, you will each have five minutes to answer your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u26	Madam President, I will answer the questions together with Minister Verlinden, who will provide further explanations. I'm giving you a few elements that I think are important. First of all, the systems are now secure. Secondly, the Cybersecurity Centre confirms that no other public services have been infiltrated. Thirdly, the federal prosecutor has confirmed that there has been no access to personal data or classified data. Such information is located outside the network and is otherwise protected. That clarification is important, because I have read some bizarre and bold statements over the past few days, often from people with very little knowledge of the dossier. That's how they claim a database of fingerprints could have been cracked. That's bullshit; there's no database of fingerprints in our country. During the previous period of government, some were in favour of this and, after a visit to a particular country, they advocated the use of this technology in our country. Fortunately, the previous government did not go that way in the end. Fingerprints are on our ID cards and on passports, but not in a central database. The incident shows that we have to deal with these kinds of databases very carefully. In this government, we have not waited for new threats to come forward. Last month, we presented a new cybersecurity protection strategy, an approach that is not incremental but that is totally new, and that is characterized by a sharp increase in investments – I'll come back. In fact, within the National Security Council, we have for the first time adopted an award procedure that guides the process in order to formally impute an e-activity to an organization or a certain country. Minister Verlinden has already indicated that she will request the activation of this procedure. This is a new element, which we can clearly use in the situation we have been confronted with. I said at the beginning of this government, as previous governments did, that it is clear that cybersecurity has become one of the most important security risks, not only in our country, but in all European countries. Everywhere, it is seen that private and government systems can have a very heavy impact from cyber activities. We are also evolving at international level towards a very thorough cooperation. At the NATO Summit on 14 June, one of the topics to be discussed will be international cooperation in the field of cyber security. We take that threat very seriously. I talked about the Cybersecurity Centre and its new strategy. We also do this through additional investments in people and expertise. We do that with the police, with the Justice Department and our security services. In concrete terms, we do so, for example, by identifying specialised cybermagistrates at the parquets, by recruiting IT specialists for the federal judicial police, and we do so by strengthening the protection techniques of our security services, including for example within the Ministry of Defence. Cyber security is also one of the key pillars of our European Investment Plan, the European Recovery Plan. An amount of €80 million was reserved for additional investments in cybersecurity. Let us be clear: cyber security is one of the government's absolute top priorities in security policy. This applies to the competent trade ministers, but also to each minister. In his or her policy, each minister must ensure that the services for which one is responsible and the organisations with which one interacts are aware that this is high on the agenda. Indeed, total security exists nowhere, not in the physical world, not in the online world. Ensure maximum security and ensure that backup systems exist if there is a problem, that is the responsibility of each of us. This government is putting that very high on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u27	Colleagues, I am not surprised by your many questions about this incident. They express an outrage, as far as I am concerned, if it turns out that a strange, possibly stately actor on the Home Affairs network has been intrusive. I also share that indignation. Although we acted very quickly after the initial findings earlier this year, we need to think carefully about the conclusions and the implementation of the actions needed to avoid such incidents. The Prime Minister has already spoken about it. We will certainly continue to do so. I will not be able to explain all the facts within the limited time frame, but I would very much like to take up the main points of what has happened. Earlier this year, in February, following an announced global problem with Microsoft Exchange Server, additional monitoring of servers took place at Home Affairs. A number of checks were carried out. On March 10th it was discovered that HAFNIUM webshell viruses were found on two Exchange Servers of Home Affairs. Unfortunately, we were not alone, 30,000 companies were affected worldwide. More than 1,000 computer systems in Belgium were also vulnerable to these viruses. We were immediately shot into action to put the finger on the wound. The CCB discovered on 12 March that there were traces on the network that suspected there was more going on. Then, on 26 March, we found that certain data had been filtered out of 32 mailboxes of cabinet members and employees of Home Affairs. For the sake of clarity, I would like to underline that on the basis of the information available, it is about data from the mail server and not about data from large databases. That is a fundamental difference. In order to coordinate the follow-up of the incident, the incident has been scaled up to a national crisis, after which the Federal Coordination Committee Cyber has been called together and took the lead. Of course, all the information is also shared with the Federal Computer Crime Unit of the police. My services filed a complaint with the judicial authorities. It is not only the ingenious techniques with which the attacker has worked that stand out, but also the thorough and phased preparation of that attack. This was not a noisy hit-and-run of the servers, but an almost surgical operation in which the attacker gradually and almost invisiblely nestled in a network. The impact on the population has been fortunately and rightly limited. After this scaling-up, the FPS Home Affairs, the Centre for Cyber Security Belgium (CCB) and a team of external experts have joined forces to ward off the attack further. Initially, all urgent measures were taken to remove malware, to close accesses and to prevent further intrusion. Of course, it was supported by the CCB's advice. All compromised parts and passwords were replaced and data were transferred to honor safe environment. It was only after all those actions were made to safeguard elements that further communication could be made. It is important that we have immediately decided to rebuild the home affairs core network and to secure it permanently. I am therefore pleased to say that the Council of Ministers has now decided to invest a budget of more than EUR 6 million in the cyber security of the systems. Colleagues, the Department of the Interior will finally have a well-functioning and secure computer network. So I asked to lower the level of the national crisis. Today, we are working again in a safer environment. The intrusion into the Inland FPS network is a warning for many other authorities and companies. We must also protect the sovereignty of our country online. I have asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs to initiate the award procedure for this reason. Finally, I wonder whether the federal government should not discuss sharing ICT knowledge of different public services. Today, each public service works with its own ICT service. We should discuss it and see if it is not possible to do better: a federal ICT service with its own status, capable of attracting competent profiles to the labour market would be more attractive. I'm closing up. The Chinese word for crisis consists of two signs. The first represents danger and the second represents opportunity. Let's start with the second.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u28	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, if it takes two years for people to find that they are being hacked, then I wonder which systems our government may have hacked without knowing and - who knows - how much confidential information will be leaked in that way. The government wants to intervene more and more on the private life and privacy of citizens, but if it turns out that the government is not competent to manage that data safely, then we have to ask ourselves how secure this data is in the hands of the government. The security of the computer systems is clearly as leaky as a sieve. This is unacceptable to the Flemish interest. How can we expect citizens to have confidence in government in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u29	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, I would like to thank you for the answers, but I am afraid I have received little or no answers. My message is that we need to invest in the fight against cybercrime, and I am glad that you say so, but make sure that there is no more sensitive information. It's about mail service, but what isn't sent by mail? I'm just thinking about the architecture of the 112 sites, the spectrum file and the 5G file, all sensitive information. That was in those mailboxes, wasn't it? Ensure a flexible and user-friendly programme to exchange sensitive information. Then they may come spying, but then that will have no impact, because then they won't find anything good. You've incorporated cybersecurity into the coalition agreement. Do something concrete with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u30	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for the clarification you gave us. We all know that many countries in the world are being hacked. We also know that our cyber-ranking is not bad, even if there are weaknesses in threat analysis and crisis management. Much remains to be done; others have said so before me. It's a permanent race. I read that the experts consider that at the end of 2021, it is not three, but five million digital hits that will have been recorded. Prime Minister, I know you're sensitive to all of this, as I know you're sensitive to everything about digital security. This issue is indeed crucial.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u31	Madam Minister, thank you for the satisfactory answers. We all know that digitisation is an asset and that not all sensitive information can still be sent by post. We must therefore continue to do so, but we must certainly ensure adequate security. If we call on the whole of society to digitize, then it is important that we also raise awareness. People must not be demotivated because they are afraid of the risks. Cyber security must therefore be a top priority. It is also good that the personal data and the classified data were outside the networks and were therefore secure. In fact, no central databases of fingerprints have been created in previous legislatures. Hacking is now more and more on the rise and it is therefore important to think carefully about such matters. I am also pleased that the attribution procedure is being dealt with, which means that these criminals are really being sought out and that they can also be dealt with at international level. I hope one day those hackers will pay a fine (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u32	Madam Secretary, thank you for the good answers. It is clear that more investment will be made in cyber security, and that is also important. The Minister wants to bring together the people who work on cyber security in different places. That is positive because people with the appropriate profile are not easy to find and they are also hard to attract, especially for the government. We need to work on that. This government has approved the cybersecurity strategy 2.0 and that was not a day too early, as it were. We now need to work on the possible accelerated roll-out of all actions in that strategy so that by 2025 we are one of the least vulnerable countries when it comes to cyber attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u33	That is what I hear colleagues say, but I am not reassured. Yesterday it appeared that the Ministry of Defense was open, as the Microsoft Exchange hack was on the servers of the Ministry of Defense. It was in the paper, and I tweeted it, too. I just checked, and that server's offline today, thank God. Prime Minister, Minister, you say that there was no penetration into other government networks, but I am telling you that your information is wrong. That is why we propose that one minister be appointed who has the time to concreteise the problem of cybersecurity across all departments. Now cyber security is at Home Affairs, at Foreign Affairs, at Justice, at Defence, at Science Policy, at Digitalization and above that with you, Prime Minister. It doesn't work. In a moment of crisis, we need a unit of command, one minister of science.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u34	Madam President, Minister, the judge's ruling yesterday in The Hague is historic. Yesterday, the judge did not condemn a government but a company, Shell, and ordered the company to assume its responsibility in the field of climate warming. The judge actually tells Shell that he and Shell know what the problem is, that Shell knows what to do about it, but doesn't do anything about it. The judge's pulling a line under there. The verdict is justified in itself, but it is also partly wrong. It also states in part that when judges take over the place of public authorities, they fail and show insufficient responsibility. That's a problem for Vooruit. I'll give you why, too. If tomorrow Shell adjusts its business approach, I am afraid that the invoice or the costs will not be paid out of the company's billions of profits, but that those costs will end up on the people's bill. Shell itself will not take account, for example, of social inequality in our country. It is important to keep climate policy in the hands of the government. After all, that is too important to just let go. What happened yesterday in The Hague is absolutely an important precedent. I am convinced that there will be further statements. Shell may appeal, but there will still be judgments and trials in our country and in other countries. So what we need now is a government that takes responsibility. I know that some climate ambitions have already been included in the coalition agreement. It is essential to give instructions to companies now and to ensure that they take action. Mr Minister, my question is very simple. Will the government start working with the sectors, with the transport sector, the construction sector and the petroleum sector? Will you make clear climate agreements with them or will you wait until the judges decide in our place?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u35	Madam President, Minister, yesterday a Dutch court made history. It's a beautiful story I'm going to try to tell you in a very short time. In April 2019, six NGOs, including Friends of the Earth Europe and Greenpeace, joined by 17,000 citizens, attacked the multinational Shell in court for climate inaction. Yesterday, the court rendered its judgment and forced Shell to reduce its CO2 emissions by 45% net compared to 2019 by the end of 2030. This decision recognizes that Shell is responsible for huge CO2 emissions and therefore contributes directly to the disastrous consequences of climate change for people and ecosystems. This is the first time in history that justice has forced a multinational to reduce its CO2 emissions and align its policy with the Paris Agreements. It's huge! And, as good news is better when it doesn't come alone, an Australian court confirmed, just a few hours ago, that the Australian state is responsible for protecting the younger generations from the climate crisis. This echoes other court decisions that require States to revise their ambitions upwards. In short, the moral of this beautiful story is that neither states nor companies can escape their responsibilities in the face of climate change. One objective is to maintain climate change at 1.5°C or a maximum of 2°C. Not only do we have to stick to it, but we have to give ourselves the means to do it. Everyone has to do their part, the big polluters on the front line. Minister, we will agree without difficulty that it is very good for justice to do its job, but it is even better when politicians do it. What lessons do these court decisions bring to the head of government? How does the federal government plan to better manage and, when necessary, force businesses to strengthen their efforts?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will reply on behalf of my colleague, the Minister for Climate. Like you, we learned through the press that Shell oil company has been condemned by the Dutch court to reduce its CO2 emissions by 45% by 2030 compared to 2019. This implies – with a result commitment – a net reduction in its own greenhouse gas emissions, but also a co-responsibility for emissions from its suppliers and customers worldwide. The judgment shall take effect immediately. This is indeed the first time, as you have pointed out, that a judge has ruled in this way on the responsibilities of a private company and it creates a precedent. Like you, I consider this to be a historic first. Of course, I am not going to comment on the legal aspect of this matter, which belongs to the justice system in the Netherlands. What seems relevant to me, however, is that the judge imposes on Shell a percentage reduction resulting from climate science in order to achieve the objective of limiting global warming to 1.5°C. As we know from the IPCC reports on this subject, damage to a global warming of 1.5°C is considerably less than damage to a warming of 2°C. Thanks to the Paris Climate Agreement and as a result of improved scientific knowledge on the consequences of global warming of 2°C or more, Europe has already tightened its climate target by deciding to reduce CO2 emissions by at least 55% by 2030. The federal government fully supports that. It would be strange for government to do less than an oil company, wouldn't it? Mrs de Laveleye, Mr Verduyckt, in fact this is also a wake-up call for private investors who are shareholders in oil companies, for example: think carefully about whether you are investing your money in the economy of the future. I read in news reports that the trial also resonates with other major companies such as ExxonMobil and Chevron. They are forced by their shareholders to make them more sustainable. And I think that's a good thing. This is in line with the government agreement where we are looking, for example, for pension funds and insurers to encourage disinvestment on the one hand in sectors that are harmful to the environment and health, including those of fossil fuels, and on the other hand to encourage investment in the energy transition of our economy. With the whole government, and therefore my colleague in charge of climate, we are obviously working in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u37	I agree with you that that is an historic statement. It was my plea that it should not be left to judges or the market alone. We have to take matters into our own hands. Now's the time. In America, the petroleum industry's top man has said that after years they will stop fighting climate policy. They're willing to sit with the Biden government. There's the case, and the case in Australia. A lot of things indicate that the moment is there is a wake-up call, both for governments and for industry, to sit together, to work out instructions together and to take action. There can be no waiting for the judges to decide that for us. It is unacceptable to us that a climate policy is being pursued outside this Parliament and that the citizens will see it on their invoice. We can't do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u38	Minister, (...) climate change and the collapse of ecosystems: these are the major risks facing humanity, as you yourself have reminded us. Yes, this court decision is a really important signal for all investors and the biggest polluters. Nor should I remind you that a hundred companies today emit more than 70% of the greenhouse gases. Therefore, politics must send an extremely strong signal. Yes, this court decision is a huge victory. A huge victory for the climate and for the citizens. Courts show us that it is possible and even necessary to force states and businesses to live up to the climate challenge. We therefore expect our policies to accompany this change and meet the climate challenge. You'll be, I'm sure, on the front line, and we'll be behind you to show you this way. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u39	Minister, health not only consists of the absence of disease, but can be defined more broadly as a complete state of physical, mental and social well-being. For MR, mental health is paramount. That is why we have asked that in the special committee covid, in which I sit, we organize sessions that are particularly dedicated to it. The health crisis we are experiencing raises many concerns and concerns to varying degrees among the population. The main psychological impact to date is a high level of stress and anxiety. The measures that the government has had to take are not without consequences for mental health. For example, the Brussels Prosecutor's Office recorded a 20% increase in suicides in 2020 in the Brussels-Capital Region. We also observed an increase in admissions to psychiatric hospitals across the country. Mental health problems affect all categories of the population and all sectors, including the police – also under heavy pressure during the current crisis, as demonstrated by the suicide of a Evere policeman in his workplace. A reference centre on suicide prevention still highlights suicide as the leading cause of death among 15-44-year-olds. Minister, we know that this is a cross-cutting issue: psychiatric hospitals are under the supervision of the federal government, while outpatient services are subject to the prerogatives of the federated entities. What initiatives for collaboration between the various authorities concerned do you intend to take? It could take the form of an Interdepartmental Conference (IMC), a thematic working group or any other initiative. What provisions are in place to assist young people, particularly in child-psychiatric care?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u40	Mrs Gilson, your question about suicide is quite relevant. We must do everything we can to combat this tragedy, even if, as you mentioned, suicide prevention is the responsibility of the federated entities. But we must shoulder our responsibilities. As you say, the covid crisis has had and always has a very important impact on mental well-being, including the mental well-being of our children, adolescents and young adults. In order to provide faster care for children, adolescents and young adults, we have taken several important decisions, including strengthening mobile crisis teams. The total budget of mobile crisis teams has been increased by 50 per cent. The means of operation of the networks have been increased by 75 per cent and the supervision of psychiatrists in the networks by 25 per cent. In the short term, mobile crisis management capacity will therefore be significantly increased, on the basis of an additional budget of EUR 4.7 million, which will allow for an additional 55 full-time equivalents. In addition, I have decided to step up the provision of residential care for children, adolescents and young adults with serious and complex psychological problems. To do this, we assign additional staff to child and adolescent psychiatry services. This represents a total of 212 full-time equivalents. It is therefore a considerable investment in personnel. I also decided to temporarily increase the capacity of beds for the care of mentally ill children and adolescents in non-psychiatric hospital services by deploying so-called liaison teams from psychiatric hospital services for children and adolescents. We are talking about a total of 115 additional places. In addition, I also provided additional funding of EUR 1.5 million specifically for the support of students in group sessions. These sessions will be reimbursed from April 15 and will be free for students. We are discussing all this in consultation with the Communities and the Regions. In addition, we are developing a front-line psychological support system in which 112 million euros are invested. This requires negotiations with a wide range of actors, including a permanent dialogue with the competent Ministers of the Regions and the Communities. These are important but necessary efforts, as you pointed out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u41	Minister, thank you for these detailed figures that provide answers to the issue of mental health, a major parameter of individual well-being. Comprehensive, holistic management of both physical and mental health is essential. You're right and the MR group is here to support you in mobilizing all the players to make mental health a national cause.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u42	Madam President, Minister, De Tijd headlines today: "Companies are already not getting job vacancies filled." That means good news and bad news. It is good news, because it points to economic optimism, to the high level of entrepreneurial confidence and to the consumer confidence that may have turned the page of the corona crisis. However, it is also bad news, because the labour market is too tight at a time when our employment rate is still only 70%, while it should rise to 80%. That is what the government agreement states and is necessary to secure public finances and social security in the future. The structural mismatch in the labour market has not been wiped out by the corona crisis, but on the contrary has only increased. That's why both companies and administrations are calling the alarm bell. The bottleneck professions have grown to some of 190. People are concerned about missing revenue growth or even downsizing sales. However, we need very much economic growth to repay the debts incurred by the corona crisis. Mr Vice-Prime Minister, this is a wake-up call of all those who want to run the economy, the people who want to create jobs and the people who need jobs, but that will not go with a rigid labour market, hence my questions. An employment conference was scheduled for September. As far as I am well informed, you would have said that there is a need to deal with the longer working of the elderly, but there is so much more. Will you broaden that assignment? How much time do you give the social partners to come up with proposals? If they do not reach an agreement, will you, as in the case of the Ipa, take an initiative yourself? What has the government done in anticipation? You've been in office for eight months. We are still a little hungry, as entrepreneurs and as liberals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u43	Thank you for your question, Mr Leysen. It is, of course, far too early to draw definitive conclusions, but we have seen an increase in the number of vacancies in recent weeks. That is very good news and I am very pleased with it. This shows that our social security, our public services and government action have enabled most companies to cope with the crisis. In some sectors we even see a shortage of staff, for example in the construction sector, but not only there. We are, of course, working on solutions to this problem, together with the regions that are also responsible for employment and training. In this context, the government is working with the Länder and the social partners on measures to improve employment for the most vulnerable people in the labour market. For example, we are working together to improve the training of workers, in particular by ensuring the right to training for all workers. This is essential in order to achieve the government's target of employment participation, namely 80% of the employment rate by 2030. We are also working on measures to increase the effective age for exit from the labour market. This year's annual employment conference will be devoted to a harmonious end to the career, in order to enable older workers to continue their careers in good conditions. This is, as we know, a problem in our country. I am convinced that we can propose positive measures to assist older workers. The crisis has also made it clear that workers with special status such as interim or fixed-term contracts were the first to be affected and that there was insufficient protection. Together with my colleagues in the government, I will evaluate the various forms of contracts, with particular attention to providing adequate social protection to all workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u44	Mr Vice Prime Minister, a real mentality shift is clearly insisting. Otherwise, we can never reach that rate of effectiveness of 80%. In this country, work has to be paid. In this country, the difference between working and not working must be sufficiently large. In this country we need a labour market that encourages work. That is also something the government must promote and ensure. Without extra oxygen to turn the labour market, any relance policy will have an insufficient effect. Targeted public investment is needed, but not enough. As many people as possible working is an absolute necessity. Not words, but deeds. Don't wait, but dare to act. I count on the strength of this government to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u45	Minister, imagine working as a care professional in a nursing home, receiving your first consumer cheques last year and again this year through the wage agreement. You're very happy about that, but what does it turn out to be when you went shopping a few weeks ago? You can't cash them everywhere, not your favorite shoe shop, not in your favorite restaurant or in the café where you like to go. Many traders are not allowed to accept these consumer cheques. So you walk from the locker to the wall, very frustrated. It's all very confusing and you don't get the right information on the websites. For many citizens today, it is really unclear where they can use these consumer cheques. In fact, 90% of shops cannot use them today, because many shops do not meet the complex conditions. Other shops do meet this requirement, but they are not used because they are too expensive for the trader, especially the paper cheques. So it's no wonder that two out of three checks are collecting dust in the closet today. The consumer cheques that are now being issued are, according to the wage agreement, part of alternative remuneration. Consumers should therefore have the widest choice where they buy with it. That is why I would like to make the following suggestions, Minister. Firstly, make sure that the scope is extended so that these cheques can be used not only in the catering, leisure or cultural sectors and in a limited number of shops, but in all shops. Secondly, make sure that if you expand the usage, you do not make a difference between last year's old cheques and the new ones after the wage agreement. It would only be more confusing if one could spend a cheque from last year in one store and another check in another store. Thirdly, make sure that the cheques are also issued digitally, because many paper cheques are now lost and that is not the intention. Are you prepared to proceed with my suggestions? If so, when will you come to Parliament with a royal decision to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u46	Minister, the government in which you are Deputy Prime Minister is blocking wage increases at a maximum of 0.4%. In order to alleviate that suffering, throw in some consumer cheques. It was written in the stars. The trade unions rejected that proposal. They were right to reject it. I understand them. After all, it's nothing new. The healthcare sector has already received such consumer cheques and it is nice what we hear in the corridors, because the workers get something, but they can't use the cheques anywhere. The traders in whom they want to cash in their purchases do not participate because it costs them money. It is therefore quite understandable that two thirds of these cheques have not yet been recorded. People don't even lose them. Worse still, for those who thought that this was the case, the cheques are sold for less than their value on second hand.be, as opposed to festival tickets with which the seller can pick up more money. In short, the formula doesn't work. The traders don't want the checks and the employees don't want them. I can understand that. Is it, frankly, normal for you to impose on people where they have to go shopping? What time do we live in? That's just crazy, right? Are we going back to the 1900, when wages were paid with receipts, with which the employee was only allowed to do his shopping in the patron's shop? Minister, is that the world we want? No. Your chairman, Paul Magnette, made it clear that there would be total freedom for negotiations if the G-10 did not reach agreement. Can you confirm that? Is it true that 90% of the traders don't accept the checks? Is it true that the traders really have to wait a long time for their money?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u47	Madam Chair, Minister, it has been more than a year since workers have been keeping their course through the storm. In some areas, they have risked their health to keep the economy flowing or to treat the sick. In others, they have endured periods of temporary unemployment and today they still tighten their belts, unless they are simply thrown away like old socks by companies that relocate and, in addition, realize profits. When it's always the same people who drink and it's always the same people who put their pockets full of it, it's normal for anger to explode! What can I say to the cashier of the Carrefour who has always reassorted her rays? What can I say to the Deliveroo deliverer who pedaled all winter or to the Amazon driver who didn't count his rides? What do the bosses say to all these people? They say, "Speak to my hand!" Today, these employers continue to distribute dividends and give themselves indecent bonuses when they have refused to dialogue and consider real wage increases or even bonuses per sector. Yes, I understand those women and men who are at the end. What are they waiting for today? They want a more just and supportive society. We can no doubt be pleased to find career ends and the minimum wage on the negotiating table. Minister, how do you envisage the continuation of the negotiations? Should we expect blockages for the increase in the minimum wage? Beyond that, how do you intend to ensure more balanced negotiations for the next interprofessional agreement that will allow flexibility but also real prospects for workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u48	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the consumer cheque is a noble initiative, but, in practice, it still means a lot of trouble. For example, 90% of businesses cannot accept the cheque because they do not meet the conditions. In particular, the condition that gross annual turnover should not exceed EUR 700,000 appears to be too strict for many entrepreneurs. Moreover, this limit applies only to retail trade and, for example, not to sports, cultural and catering establishments. If the government were consistent and wanted to support all the small self-employed, it would have allowed the consumer cheque in all sectors. So the government doesn't. Chains in the catering, sports and culture sectors are apparently different from chains in the fashion sector. Understand who can. Unfortunately, the soap doesn't stop there yet. Traders who do fulfil the conditions do not always benefit from the issue of the consumer cheque. Edenred and Sodexo only issue the cheques in paper form, so that that check also has to be returned by registered mail. The trader must present the cheques obtained in a postal item as a registered consignment; in the meantime he is not in his business. I do not have to tell you that this entails a great deal of administrative burdens and costs. That is actually unimaginable in our current digital society. What is the reason, Minister, for the discrimination between the various sectors? Why don't you want to relax anymore? What will be the conditions for the new corona premiums?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u49	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions about the IPA – which is a recurring topic – and about the Corona bonus. You give me the opportunity to recall here some elements that are, for me, primordial. First of all, I would like to point out that, whatever happens, wage indexation will be guaranteed, and that it will be in line with the indexation percentage to be calculated by the Central Economic Council. That is an essential point. I have heard, here and there, some shake the fact that indexation would not be guaranteed or that it would be limited to a certain percentage. That's not the case. Workers will also be able to obtain more than the standard, thanks to different mechanisms. First, all premiums and benefits awarded before April 12, 2021 in the various sectors are immunized; they will not be taken into account in the calculation of the wage margin. This is important for those who were on the bridge during the crisis and who are still on the bridge today. Of course, people in the health care sector, but also in the department stores, who have allowed us to live and be supplied almost normally. Those workers have rightly received contributions. It is obvious to me that they should not be disadvantaged by a structural wage increase. I am therefore very pleased that I have obtained an exception in the government. This shows that we are all aware of the great efforts made and made by workers, often at low wages and with uncertain contracts. In addition to these benefits and bonuses, various measures have been taken. I'm thinking about vaccination leave. I am also thinking of the various measures aimed at teleworking, which allow me to welcome the way in which the world of work, workers and workers have adapted during this crisis. Some have continued to work in the field despite the risks, and I thank them for that. Others had to accept mandatory telework, sometimes for very long periods, without direct contact with their colleagues or their boss, having to learn new ways of working. I know how this has upset and upset the lives of workers, and I want to thank them again. Measures taken to facilitate telework should not be taken into account in the calculation of the wage margin. The government's proposal for mediation also includes the famous Corona bonus. As a reminder, this premium can be negotiated in companies or in sectors. It will be different from the consumption cheque as decided under the previous government. Indeed, the cheque in question could only be used in the Horeca or in the retail trade, provided that these shops had been closed for at least one month, or in the cultural sector or in sports associations. As I was able to say on Tuesday in committee in our debate on the interprofessional agreement, the Corona premium will be much wider than the consumer cheque. It can be used to buy food in all types of stores, or even in Horeca. There will therefore no longer be restrictions for these sectors linked to a closure condition. Workers will also be able to use the Corona bonus at their hairdresser or beautician, at contact jobs, or even at their tattooer, for those of us who are interested in it. They will also be able to have some things fixed. I am thinking in particular of bicycles, which is important in the context of the circular economy. The only limitation that my colleagues and I want to impose is that the premium cannot be used for online purchases to protect our traders and professionals. As far as the consumer cheques of the previous government are concerned, we are currently evaluating their use and may propose adjustments in the same direction as the corona premium. Furthermore, my colleague Frank Vandenbroucke and I are in contact with issuing companies to see if we can only offer the corona premium electronically. Moreover, the government's conciliation proposal calls on the social partners to negotiate a number of other issues of concern to workers, such as the minimum wage which has not been increased for years, apart from indexation. This leads to a significant drop-out between the minimum wage and the median wage. In 2008, it was 53 per cent, and today it is 48 per cent. It is not acceptable that workers who get up in the morning to go to work do not receive sufficient remuneration. This joins one of the answers to the previous inquiry. It is obvious to me that if the social partners can reach agreement on this issue of the minimum wage – as on others – we will do what is necessary within the government so that these measures can be granted in addition to the maximum margin, as was the case in the past, and as we are now committed to doing on the basis of circulars for this interprofessional agreement, but also for the future, in order to give flexibility to negotiations and ensure that the world of work can be rewarded.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u50	Minister, if we are to have a win-win situation with more purchasing power for employees and at the same time support for the local economy, then we must ensure that the system works. I had made three suggestions to that effect. Firstly, we need to broaden the scope. I am pleased that you will do so for the new cheques, i.e. the corona premium. Secondly, I asked for the scope to be extended also for the old cheques, because otherwise it would only become more confusing. You say that you evaluate that and that you may want to do so. I strongly recommend that you do so. After all, it is better to make the same rules applicable to all cheques other than cheques which have not yet been issued. Thirdly, all cheques, not only consumer cheques but, for example, ecocheques, must become electronic as soon as possible. The National Labour Council itself asked for this, in order not to lose money. I hope you'll take care of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u51	Minister, I have asked you three questions and you have not answered any of them. I didn't expect anything else either, because I speak the language of working class, and I don't think you understand it anymore. The trade unions are asking for clear wage increases and you have been talking here for three minutes alone about how important it was that our employees made their contribution during the Corona epidemic. Do you know how many minutes you've talked about the reward for this? I think it was just a few seconds. After all, you keep coming back to the consumer cheque. You will broaden the scope. How will you do that? Will they remain valid for two years now, after which it is thanks for everything and the employees have to complain again for storage? Maybe they should hope for a new epidemic to get a raise? Mr Minister, let us be clear, we have been working since January and the trade unions are still saying that the 0.4% increase in wages is far too low. We want free wage negotiations. If you do not participate, you can look forward to a hot autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u52	Minister, thank you for your partly reassuring answers. The continuation of the concertation will be essential because rising wages are people who live more dignifiedly and who emancipate themselves. It is also a strengthening of our social security. It is also what enables a society to become a more egalitarian society. The employers have been deafening their ears since the beginning of the negotiations. Today, it must assume its responsibilities in reviving the economy. What, then, is the recovery of the economy going through? It involves increasing wages, especially the lowest. Nor did they wait to announce increases for the big bosses, from CEO. They must not wait today for a wage increase worthy of that name. Workers want to see the light at the end of the tunnel. They want to build a future for themselves but also for their families, for their children. They refuse to survive by running the machine. They want to be part of tomorrow's world. I will still reply to certain political parties that it is easier to manage (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u53	Mrs Thémont, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u54	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'll give you one thing. You are not filthy with irony and contradictions; I refer to the rules on the crisis. Understand who can understand why the government has made a distinction between sectors. Chains in the catering, sports and culture sectors are apparently different from those in the fashion sector. I'd like to go shopping with you next weekend at clothing stores or shoe stores and you'll see that their stock is still huge. This reminds me of the provisions relating to essential and non-essential shops. There was absolutely no objective basis for this at the time, and there is still no objective basis. Many self-employed people are discouraged by so many setbacks. That goes without saying, because how can one stand up if the rules that are supposed to help are just countering them? And that's what's happening right now. Can we then use his grievances to contact the federal government, which has imposed the rules? No. Or can one book a free session with the psychologist, another one of the ideas of the federal government? No, I don't think that would work either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u55	Madam President, Minister, Belgium has been shocked for more than a week by a radicalised man who has supplied himself with heavy weapons and is threatening to be violent. This fact, and also the statements of support that came for this man's actions, make me extremely concerned. Moreover, yesterday there was the news that a man was arrested after he also threatened Mr Van Ranst. It was supposed to be copycat behavior. Like Jürgen Conings, this man has ties with right-wing extremist and neo-Nazi organizations. Not only virologists, but also journalists are threatened and feel unsafe. This week, DPG Media's office had to be evacuated after threats. Madam Minister, recently I asked you a question in committee following warnings from the intelligence services that the threat of extreme right-wing violence is underestimated in Belgium. You replied that it would be mainly lone wolves, lone actors, but these recent examples show that there are indeed links with right-wing extremist organisations and groups. It is clear that right-wing extremism is present in our society. It undermines our society, like all other forms of extremism. Madam Secretary, do you still think that this is primarily about lone wolves or is there also a threat of organized right-wing extremist violence? Given the risk of copying behaviour, are additional protection measures taken to protect experts, virologists and journalists, because they too feel threatened? You will also follow the Plan R, the antiradicalisation plan. When can we expect that plan? I call on you to follow the recommendations of the intelligence services and to pay attention to all forms of dangerous extremism.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u56	Madam Minister, I asked you a few months ago about extreme right-wing terrorism when we were told that individuals had gone to train in Eastern Europe to shoot and prepare for war. At the time, you said there was nothing to do. I also questioned your predecessor, Mr. From Crem, at the time of the Hanau attacks in Germany, he told me that there was nothing to worry about, that everything was under control. Extreme right-wing terrorism is increasingly violent. There were Christchurch in New Zealand, there were attacks in Germany, in which a Christian-Democratic politician was murdered, there were attacks in France and Spain. There are plenty of examples. In this context, there is some laxity at the political level to minimize this danger. When people begin to assess the danger of extreme right-wing terrorism, politicians, like MR President Bouquez, say that the danger is the left. It is the left that today represents a danger in terms of terrorism. We have an extreme right-wing terrorist who is on the run and armed to his teeth, and for Mr.Bouchez, the danger is the left. Madam Minister, are you going to do the ostrich like Mr.Bouchez, and talk about something that does not exist, or rather focus on the problem before us today, that of extreme right-wing terrorism, which has been reported by the OCAM? What are you going to do to protect citizens from this danger?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u57	Mr Boukili, there is no doubt that all the services concerned are closely monitoring the situation of the extreme right, which also allows OCAD to carry out threat analyses and follow up closely. The National Crisis Centre then takes appropriate action on the basis of the threat analyses. Mrs Platteau, I can assure you that the threats against virologists from day 1 have been taken into account and followed closely and that protection measures have been and are being taken where necessary. Currently, some 50 right-wing extremist entities are listed in the common database of the OCAD. All services involved in the fight against terrorism or extremism have access and must also feed the GGB. All persons included in the GGB, but also other extremists, are followed by the local task forces, where individualised measures can be taken. These cases concern individuals but also general phenomena and developments. They are dealt with in the national working group on right-wing extremism, in which all security services and the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office are represented. For several years, according to the OCAM, the main right-wing extremist threat has come from what is called "the lone wolves". However, the threat of right-wing extremists from cells, groups, organizations and phenomena has never been lost. It is being studied by means of tools available to the services to monitor this threat closely and to take appropriate action. The draft strategic note on extremism and terrorism to which you refer is not limited to the far right; it has already been discussed at the federal level and at the level of the federated entities. The necessary modifications of the text are being implemented. These are updates to the current R Plan that take into account the evolving threat, legislative framework and strategic participation of federated entities. Information exchange structures already exist and any form of extremism is taken into account in our multidisciplinary approach to terrorism, extremism and the radicalisation process. We live in a democracy and that means that everyone has the right to a free opinion and has the right to make that opinion public. The right to freedom of expression is a fundamental right. We must cherish and protect this, but we must explicitly call for hatred and violence, in my view, endanger precisely that right to freedom of expression. However, our democracy tolerates differences of opinion, and we must have the courage to continue to seek solutions on these differences of opinion together. Today we find that more and more of our own truths are going to lead their own lives, that new realities are being created on the basis of fake news or alternative facts, and that people are going so far as to turn their backs on society. I therefore believe that we must continue to call for dialogue and connection more than ever before, because that is the only way to overcome the more severe contradictions between white and black, between us and them. We must continue to listen, to look for the cause of frustration and displeasure and to find an answer in which all people find each other and connect. Then words matter. In any case, I want to accept my responsibility to combat violent polarisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u58	Madam Minister, thank you for the measures you are going to take, but what I have seen in recent days worries me. Some of our people are angry, scared and disappointed. The corona measures weigh on all of us, but some people are even more affected by them. The policy must recognise that and pay attention to it. Like you, I think freedom of expression is extremely important, but society must draw a clear line. Death threats are not free speech, we can never tolerate threats of violence. I am also pleased that you refer to falsehoods that are being spread and would like to call on all parties present to assume their responsibilities. There are colleagues who have consistently called the government an illegal government, there are colleagues who want to make a political play out of the pandemic law that is so much needed, there are colleagues who stir up fear and distrust in politics. This is an ideal breeding ground for radicalisation. We must never forget where that can lead.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u59	Minister, there is no question of attacking freedom of expression because everyone has a right to it, and we all have to guarantee it here. Right now, I'm talking about terrorism, people who threaten to kill citizens, to commit attacks! It is indeed the OCAM that speaks of an extreme right-wing terrorist danger because it has pinned a dramatic increase in such threats over the past two years. Every time I ask you this question, you are certainly giving misleading but vague answers. For my part, I ask you what initiatives you intend to take to respond to these threats. Will we just condemn them until there are dead? Will we wait for them before taking action? It is now that we must act to determine how to deal with this danger that threatens the entire population, all the workers in this country!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u60	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, nowhere in Europe is there as little brake on road works as in our country, according to figures from the European traffic barometer. We have seen the consequences on two important shipyards on our motorways: the E313 and the E17, where four deaths occurred in a few months. In our country, for example, there are no less than 800 injuries a year due only to road works. Despite the ridges, announcement boards and awareness campaigns, Belgians continue to work along these roads. What does it help? Four years ago, the Flemish government came up with a solution: mobile route controls. These are flexible systems that you can use along roadworks to permanently measure the speed of each passing vehicle over a longer distance. So everyone knows who drives too fast, gets caught and fined. That, of course, deters, and leads to greater safety. Last week, your colleague from the Flemish government, Lydia Peeters, came up with the astonishing announcement that these systems cannot be linked to the federal AMS system, professional jargon for the back office, and that they are currently unusable. But she added that she's going to try to arrange that by June 1st: that's next Tuesday. If that's possible, that means we've lost four years of time, and then we're talking nonchalance. Either your colleague from the Flemish government makes empty promises because she doesn't know what she's talking about, and that comes down to incompetence. So my question to you, Madam Minister, is very simple. Can you confirm that these mobile route checks cannot be linked to the federal AMS system, but that there is a solution in the pipeline, preferably by next Tuesday?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u61	Madam President, Mr Vandenbroucke, the mobile route controls of the Flemish Region can indeed be linked to the federal ANPR Management System. During the roll-out of the connection to the AMS system in December 2020, the priority was first to link the existing route checks of the Flemish Region and the other partners. The mobile route checks were also linked to the predecessor of the AMS, the Strix system. A lot of other cameras are still connected to that system. Clearly, we're still in a transition phase. According to my information, the Flemish Region and Proximus are finalising the connectivity of these mobile route controls with AMS. For more details, I must refer to the Flemish Minister responsible, as this falls within her competence. Once that connectivity has been fixed, the GDCs will also be able to automatically process the violations of the mobile route controls. In the coming weeks - mid-June - the operation will be tested throughout the entire chain. As soon as both the migration to the new system and the connection problems at Proximus under the leadership of the Flemish Region are over, the mobile route controls can become operational and contribute to stimulating traffic flow and road safety. As you know, we have already taken important steps towards increasing the use of ANPR technology. My administration is making the necessary efforts to remove the technical obstacles. Thus the AMS servers are linked to the GDCs, the older types of cameras are also integrated and we do the necessary to recruit 35 additional staff for the GDCs, so that more infringements can be effectively processed after the findings. I can assure you that there is a very close and constructive cooperation between the federal police, the administration and the cabinet, as well as Mrs Peeters' cabinet and the justice cabinet, to continue to promote and improve that important and unique project, and to manage the very complex implementation and migration process, with a view to increasing road safety and avoiding even more road accidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u62	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I certainly appreciate your efforts. You've only been on this post for six months. I note, however, that you said exactly the opposite of your colleague Mr Peeters today, which proves that she did not know what it was about. Of course, it remains to be seen that four years after expensive mobile route controls were announced, we are still in a transition phase. Those things still do not do what they have to do, namely to reduce the number of victims in the vicinity of road works. In the federal government agreement, we agreed that we would make a firm commitment to road safety and increase controls. One of the big killers in traffic, speed, is a priority there. I hope that the good cooperation with the regions you are talking about can be sustained and, above all, will lead to results.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u63	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u64	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 May 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 May 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u65	Madam President, I would like to submit an order motion. Last Tuesday an exchange of views was held in the Advisory Committee of the Committee I with those responsible for the I Committee on a future monitoring investigation in the Jürgen Conings case under your expert leadership, Madam President. You also know that the operation of the Advisory Committee is governed by Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure, in particular that there is mandatory confidentiality. Without confession, we made a number of agreements in that committee on how to communicate. It was agreed that you, as President, would make an objective statement, no matter what happened. However, I choked in my morning coffee when I read the following day that whole procedures were being written out. We could read in the newspapers everything that was discussed in the closed committee. This is clearly a leak. This is clearly a violation of Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure. Madam President, in this context, I would ask the Chamber of Representatives to ask you to investigate the offenders and to take appropriate sanctions under Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u66	An order motion was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover, Mr Peter Buysrogge and Mr Joy Donné and reads as follows:"The Chamber of Representatives, - having regard to the fact that information was deliberately leaked from an exchange of views on a future monitoring survey to the media by members of the P and I parliamentary monitoring committee; - having regard to the opinion of the Advisory Committee under Art. 1 (l) (a) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 67 of the Rules of Procedure and the obligation of professional secrecy shall apply to all information obtained at the hearing; Invites the President of the Chamber to carry out an investigation into the offenders, then under Art. Article 67 of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice A point of order was tabled by Messrs. Peter De Roover, Peter Buysrogge and Joy Donné and reads as follows: "The House of Representatives, - Whereas information from an exchange of views on a future monitoring inquiry has been disclosed to the media by members of the Parliamentary Committee of the P&R Committee; - Whereas the accompaniment commission falls within the scope of Art. 67 of the Rules of the Chamber and that the obligation of secrecy applies in respect of all information obtained at meetings; Requests the President of the Chamber to conduct an investigation into the perpetrators of the offences, and then to take appropriate sanctions under s. 67 of the Rules of the Chamber." It's a good thing, Mr. Buysrogge, since I had a communication to make about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u67	I noticed leaks in the press following the meeting on May 25, 2021 of the Special Committee for Parliamentary Support of the Standing Committee for the Supervision of Police Services and the Standing Committee for the Review of Intelligence and Security Services. I regret that. I noted that following the meeting of the Special Committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Police Services and the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services, there were press leaks on 25 May 2021. I regret that. The proceedings in the Chamber are in principle public, but, in the interest of ongoing investigations or because of the nature of certain information entrusted to the Chamber, they are held by way of exception in camera. The debates in the Chamber are in principle public, but in the interests of ongoing investigations or because of the nature of some of the information entrusted to the Chamber, they are exceptionally held with closed doors. If the Chamber causes leaks in the press, this is a particularly serious fact. If the Chamber is at the origin of press leaks, this is particularly serious. It is not a question of calling into question the protection of journalistic sources, which is essential in our democracy, but I call on everyone to respect confidentiality where it is applicable, and in all cases where it applies. It is not intended to question journalism's source secret, which is essential in our democracy, but I appeal to everyone's responsibility to respect confidentiality where and in what cases it applies. The procedure under rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure is binding on each of us and I will not hesitate to apply it. The procedure provided for in Rule 67 of our Rules of Procedure applies to all of us and I will not hesitate to apply it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u68	Madam President, I fully agree with your words, with your condemnation and regret, and with your statement that this is a serious violation. I fully agree with that, and I am pleased with your response. In our sense of order, we also ask that we examine what has gone wrong. So I invite you to investigate it further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u69	We are verifying the admissibility of the motion and I am coming back to you during the sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u70	Madam President, it is customary for opinions of the Council of State to be requested at the start of the discussion of the draft laws and proposals. It concerns specifically the draft law on various provisions on value added tax, No. 1943. In committee, an amendment by CD&V was adopted, which has a very noble objective, namely to introduce another VAT scheme in student rooms which would make students pay less. There has been a debate in committee on two points. Firstly, there is the question of whether sufficient thought has been given to the impact on the ground. It seems to us that when this is approved, student rooms will not be cheaper, but there is a risk that they will become just more expensive because managers of these student rooms will no longer be able to recover a number of costs in VAT and what they can no longer recover, they will pass on to the students. Secondly, VAT legislation is very technical and fits in with a European perspective. When changing things, it is important to ensure that it is fully legal. Normally, the Council of State gives advice on such matters so that we know how everything is technically put together and that what we offer to the students is legally right. However, this did not happen here because an amendment was being worked on. The text itself was not in the draft law, but in an amendment. We have proposed in committee that the Council of State's opinion should be requested and that this be done very quickly. That was about two weeks ago. It was clear at that time in committee that there was an adequate majority available for this, under the Rules of Procedure, but the simple majority in committee did not want to go into that. However, we remain left with the same legal questions. It would be strange to introduce something that is not legally certain, to promise something to students that may expire afterwards, to pretend that student rooms are becoming cheaper, when they may become more expensive. We do not want to anticipate the opinion of the Council of State, but we certainly want to ask for that opinion. I have already said it in committee, this is not a delay manoeuvre. We wanted to do it two weeks ago, but the majority did not want to do it at the time. Even today, it's not a delay manoeuvre. The government wants this to enter into force on 1 July. So we still have time to ask for that opinion from the Council of State. I would like to refer to the Rules of Procedure. It concerns the amendment to Article 28, as it was adopted in committee. We ask that this amendment be sent to the Council of State for its opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u71	Mr Loones, if I understand correctly, you are not tabling an amendment, but you are asking for the opinion of the Council of State on an amendment approved in committee. (Mr Loones nodded)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u72	Madam President, briefly, it seems to me that the government is taking a bad habit by proposing bills, submitted as it should to the Council of State, and then introducing in committee last-minute amendments – tabled by the government or via members of the majority. This is a bad way because part of the scheme is beyond the control and vigilance of the Council of State. I call for the procedure – unless we are not obliged to vote – to serve as a signal to the government to ensure that all legal arrangements are submitted to the opinion of the Council of State – especially when these are legally difficult issues. It's just prudence not to do anything legally. I do support this call.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this majority and its government have a bad habit of making rather significant changes to relevant draft laws at the very last minute. That's a very bad habit. Although the objective of the amendments is honourable and the Flemish interest can endorse them, I would like to emphasise that VAT legislation is rather complex. So it is not an unnecessary luxury that the Council of State also looks at it. Nor is there any rush to rush this through Parliament. Since we want this VAT legislation to work properly and there is no great haste, we are therefore inclined to support the request for advice from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u74	I note that this request is supported by at least 50 Members, in this case 54.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u75	The President will therefore ask for the opinion of the Council of State on Amendments Nos. 1 to 3 (1943/2) pursuant to Rule 98 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, the President will seek the opinion of the Council of State on Amendments Nos 1 to 3 (1943/2) pursuant to Rule 98.3 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u76	Madam President, thank you for applying the Rules of Procedure. For the sake of clarity, if the opinion can be given quickly by the Council of State, then we are certainly asking for it. It is not intended to have a slowing effect. The government itself sets the date on 1 July and we believe that this date is perfectly feasible. It is intended that the legal debate should be clarified.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u77	I will ask the Council of State for urgent treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u78	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Kris Verduyckt, Melissa Depraetere, Malik Ben Achor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u79	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Bert Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u80	Madam President, I would like to refer to the written report for the report. Of course, I would like to make my statement to my group, if you will allow me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u81	You'll have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since the liberalisation of the energy market, which took place approximately between 2003 and 2007, we are struggling in this House and across the street with practical application. Liberalisation has created a great deal of opportunities for consumers to apply and identify the best solution in their situation for the supply of electricity or natural gas. However, we must also note that it is not clear to all consumers to make use of these opportunities and to make full use of them, so that they can pay the lowest possible price. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past ten years, this problem has been addressed both on this side of the street and in the Flemish Parliament, and a number of steps have been taken to make things easier and easier. Think of the creation of a number of price-comparing websites, which are known today by all regional regulators. On this side of the street, for example, the CREG has taken a number of steps in this direction. We have evolved gradually towards abolishing the termination fee. I remember that a first step was taken in 2011, limiting that fee to EUR 50. That was then a proposal from the opposition of two young snooks from Green and the N-VA. After all, she's completely gone. All these have been steps to make it more interesting, easier and easier for consumers to find the best solution. We note that many of the actions we have taken have worked effectively. We saw a systematic increase in the percentage of consumers who change contracts over the years. However, we must also note that there is still a certain group of people who, although we do not know exactly why, do not make use of this possibility, with the result that around one million families in this country have never changed supplier. At some point in time, the CREG has said that half of the families today have a contract that belongs to the ten most expensive energy contracts. It is not so obvious to reach these people and proposals are now being put forward. One of the reasons why I, as rapporteur, referred to the written report is the fact that there has been some time between Mr Verduyckt's initial proposal and the final adoption of this text. Somewhere in the middle, there's even been a government formed. What is before us today is, of course, something quite different from the initial proposal. We have devoted seven committee meetings to it and debated it for over a year in order to reach this conclusion. The proposal before us today is fully committed to better informing the consumer at the end of his contract. He must make a conscious choice to accept the supplier's contract proposal or to choose something else. If he cannot make that choice, an arrangement has been made to ensure that he does not pay too much structuralally. After all, we all know that in the past, some of these extension contracts were aimed at keeping the old contracts alive, so that these people were stuck with an overpriced contract over and over again. Of course, that cannot be the intention. We believe that the texts before us today are a lot stronger than what was originally proposed. In this sector there are always two sides to the story. Of course, we want to be as consumer friendly as possible and ensure that our families and companies can choose a contract in the right way. On the other hand, of course, we also want the market to remain healthy. This means that we do not want to end up in a situation in which many suppliers die by overly stringent measures. That's where it's always a bit of a search. In the past, we have actually seen a number of suppliers who could no longer survive. It is not possible to allocate exactly what this is about, but it shows that the balance is important. It is important to strike a good balance so that a viable sector with a high level of competition can also serve consumers. I do not deny that we had a great deal of reservations about the very first proposals. In our view, the way in which this was organised, the idea that certain contracts could be dissolved after six months, did not contribute to legal certainty. We are therefore pleased that this has disappeared from the lyrics. Working with a consumer agreement was a methodology that has been applied several times in the past and has achieved results. However, we know that not all suppliers are in this consumer agreement, and it also means that there should be a new negotiation procedure, in order to find out how this was or was not translated. Major steps have been taken in this respect. Through the discussions and with the many opinions that have been delivered, the text has improved a lot. We welcome the fact that these steps have been taken, at the time from current cases by about everyone out of majority and opposition. Afterwards, there was a proposal from the majority, as is often the case. I have tried to make a further contribution by means of a small amendment, which was tasted and adopted by the majority. So this is a good step forward. For me, it is important to see this together with an adjustment we made a while ago. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, in this hemisphere, we adopted an amendment to the Electricity and Gas Act a while ago, which should make it possible for more SMEs to be covered by the consumer protection of both laws. You know that we have increased the number of companies covered by the SME definition from September this year, if I am not mistaken. We are pleased that these new rules will also apply to the enlarged group of consumers. As proposed here, this law will enter into force on 1 January next year, when that SME definition is already in force. This means that if we read these two things together, we will not only expand the group to which consumer protection applies, but we will also ensure that this applies to both. We are taking two major steps forward there. In the end, it produced a report of some 115 pages, which you will probably further strengthen in the belief that it was not a good idea to bring the report here orally, but I think the result counts. I am therefore very pleased that our group can support this proposal. I would also like to thank the authors and all those who have contributed and congratulate Mr Verduyckt on his initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as already mentioned by the previous speaker, a first legislative proposal to amend the provisions on the renewal of energy contracts was then tabled by colleagues from Vooruit (Voruit) in spring 2020. It is good that Mr Verduyckt has put on the agenda the question of so-called dormant contracts, contracts or products withdrawn from the market and therefore no longer being actively offered. With the changes made since last year through the many amendments discussed through seven committee meetings, the same approach is still being achieved, but we are also able to further extend the objective, in particular to make the energy market more transparent. The aim of this legislative proposal is therefore to make the energy market transparent to customers. After all, the hearings in committee showed that there are 500 000 dormant contracts and it was even suggested that this number was underestimated. Both households and SMEs are indeed entitled to better information so that the customer can make an informed choice. Many groups have already said in committee that energy is a basic product. The system must therefore aim at simplicity and ease of consumption. Anyone who wishes to do so should be able to switch to another product easily. It is true that steps have already been taken in the past to facilitate a switch. This proposal provides a solution for people with automatically extended products. We ensure that the customer is informed when his energy contract expires, and that he also gets an overview of the products that are currently on the market. It is a good thing that the customer can make an active decision about his energy product. The customer can make the choice to lighten his energy bill. The various discussions in committee have shown that 360,000 families pay too much as a result of the extension of their dormant contracts. It could also be that consumers want to change contracts for other reasons, such as the origin of the products: Greenpeace draws up an annual classification of energy suppliers based on the origin of the products they offer. That could also be a reason for actively changing contracts. In addition, this legislative proposal gives producers and suppliers the opportunity to adapt to the new situation by bringing the law into force on 1 January 2022. In short, in addition to the resolution we adopted a few weeks ago to simplify the energy bill, this is yet another step in making the energy market more accessible. This is an important priority for our group, and that is why we will be supporting this proposal in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are finally there! For months, we have discussed this bill in favour of residential customers and SMEs. In this context, I would like to welcome all the work done both in form and substance by my excellent and esteemed colleague Kris Verduyckt, who responded to all the comments made by the experts on this text, including those of the Council of State and the FEBEG, so that we can now reach a final vote which I hope will lead to unanimous support. First of all, I would like to remind you of some of the particularly challenging elements that were reported to us by Test Achats at a hearing devoted to this text on 1 July 2020, almost a year ago. In these covid times, people took the opportunity to change suppliers. They were therefore able to save between EUR 130 and EUR 250 for electricity and gas. These people heard the advice of the observers and the CREG, which did not fail to remind many times, during the first confinement, among other things, that the amount of the economy was really interesting and that it was worth reanalyzing the products proposed by the various suppliers, the price of electricity being at the lowest. When we compare these figures with those of dormant products, we always come, as Test Achats reminded us, to savings ranging on average from 240 to 265 euros for electricity, and up to 375 euros for natural gas. The maximum savings potential between the cheapest products and dormant products could even be more than 400 euros for electricity and 950 euros for gas. When we know that 600,000 families in Belgium still have products that are no longer in line with the current market situation, we quickly assess the potential of the savings that we could bring to many households. Unfortunately, many people, in this context, are not aware that their contract is no longer favourable to them and that there are much cheaper alternatives. In fact, it was learned in an audition that four in ten people never change their product. This could partly be explained by the fact that people are not always aware that there are now different new, more interesting products on the market, and that the one for which they had entered into a contract with their supplier is no longer in line with current prices. Far from the idea of stigmatizing anyone, but it can also be simply the complexity of an electricity bill that, you must admit, sometimes does up to 15 pages. It does not allow many people to take administrative steps which seem a priori complex; this is the whole point of the text that we are voting on, not to mention the one we voted on last week alongside Mrs Dierick on simplifying the energy bill. Extension contracts undermine transparency and are often disadvantageous to the consumer. These contracts cannot be compared with the active offer, except through the CREG Scan. The aim of this bill is therefore to improve the functioning of the market and to strengthen the protection of consumers and SMEs. It must enable a range of citizens – including households in difficulty, of course – to benefit from a more market-friendly supply of energy, and therefore to be able to compare their contracts in an energy market that is very complex, as everyone knows. Suppliers must ensure continuity in the supply of the customers concerned by a sleeping product and redirect them to more advantageous active products. At the same time, it seemed essential to us that the comparison of the contracts of the electricity suppliers should also be easier and clearer for consumers who often do not know the difference between a commercial simulator and an official simulator or labeled by the CREG. On the other hand, some suppliers now offer contracts of indefinite duration, but the price of which is known only for a period determined by the customer. The consumer therefore has no idea of the price that he will pay once that period has passed, which is usually one to three years. We were also concerned about that. In passing, I would point out that we have not failed, in our text, to deal separately with fixed-term and indefinite contracts. In conclusion, I would like to recall the date of implementation of the measures contained in this text, 1 January 2022, which leaves time for suppliers to adapt. Finally, I repeat, for all the reasons that have been mentioned so far, for residential customers and for the benefit of SMEs, I hope that this text will be supported unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the phenomenon of dormant energy contracts that are constantly being renewed is indeed an anachronism of the market and ensures that consumers, certainly vulnerable ones, have been attached to these energy contracts for too long and thus miss the chance to enter into a cheaper contract. The CREG has been discussing this for a long time. In fact, he's sued. A product is dormant when it can no longer be found on the supplier's web site and when it no longer appears in the results of the price comparison. Sleeping extension products are the most problematic form of dormant products. These are therefore rightly endorsed by this bill. Flemish Interest has always advocated making the energy market and its offer more accessible. The essential question is whether or not the consumer in this market, with his numerous complex formulas in his search for the most advantageous contracts, should be assisted by legal action by the government. I believe that this is an important question. Of course, the ongoing exercise on the reform, update and simplification of the consumer agreement also plays a role in this context. The choice was made not to work through the consumer agreement, but to register directly the provisions of the Electricity Act. This indeed overrides the consumer agreement. Moreover, the provisions on transparency and informed choice in the consumer agreement were incorporated into this proposal. Colleagues, in the case of basics such as energy, it seems to us wrong to assume that in the liberalised market, conscious consumers are supposed to take a number of steps themselves. Although a great deal has already been done in this area, Mr Wollants. Public intervention seems to me to be proportionate and proportionate enough here. There was a need for structural action. But you know, Mr Verduyckt, that from the outset we have been in favour of a regulatory intervention under the essential condition of respect for the functioning of the market. We have always stressed that in the first version of your proposal there was a problem with price regulation. There was justified criticism of the reference price aspect, which was still present in your initial proposal. In committee, you yourself argued that the initial bill was too conductive. It is not up to the federal legislator to do price regulation, but to increase transparency. You also know that we are keen to support a social energy policy, whether it belongs to this government or another government, you or any other party. We don't handle cordon sanitary. However, we have linked our voting behaviour to your commitment to rewrite the proposal. It's been a little exciting for the past few weeks and months. What would happen to your bill on dormant energy contracts? After all, there was also the Minister's slope, which has not yet been addressed here. It was somewhat parallel to the work on this bill. This was a parallel path to increase market pressure and transparency on these contracts, in particular consultation with suppliers. Some of them themselves came up with a plan of action. The Minister has reported on several occasions on these talks with Mrs De Bleeker and Mr Dermagne. Meanwhile, the Economic Inspectorate's advice on supplier Mega is available. This supplier has, moreover, taken a number of steps under the ministerial pressure of the investigation itself. It is good that through this investigation it was made clear to the suppliers that it was and is the government's intention. However, caution was and remains necessary in this matter. You must have contacted the suppliers and made the reality check by making some adjustments to your proposal. The Council of State has also delivered two opinions. Fortunately, you showed a manoeuvrability and a willingness to compromise, so that we will indeed unanimously vote for the proposal here today. I could explain the solution that we all supported, Mr Wollants was there, the opposition was there, here again. Mr Ben Accour has already done so. Perhaps Mr Verduyckt will also talk about the content of the solution. That could be useful to all of us. We all have an energy contract. Maybe some of us still have a sleeping energy contract. Who knows, there's 150 of us anyway. Mr Verduyckt, the solution is indeed balanced and balanced. It also includes SMEs. You have moved a stone, but there are still many stones in the river of social energy policy. I am thinking of affordability in general. Mrs Van der Straeten promised a great deal, last year, in the CRM resolution on the level of the federal contribution to the electricity bill. I think we still need to move a few big stones, because there are not only vulnerable consumers. There are also consumers facing fairly high final invoices. The reasons for this are well known. This has to do with the network aspects, but also with taxes, VAT, the totality of the energy bill. I hope that this majority, at least at federal level, will take some important steps in this respect. We will probably look at that after the summer, but we will approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for several years, the CREG has been calling for the abolition of so-called "extension" dormant contracts, these contracts for the supply of energy coming to an end which are automatically renewed or extended on the basis of products which are no longer proposed. The regulator shall identify the dangers of such products to consumers and shall stress the cost or even exorbitant nature of such contracts in relation to the active offers of suppliers. The phenomenon is not secondary. In fact, CREG found that in May 2020, approximately 470,000 consumers had an extension contract sleeping. Addressing the problem would allow customers to benefit from substantial savings. This discussion gives us the opportunity to point out that many households regularly change energy suppliers and compare the energy contract concluded with the market offer, via sites such as the CREG Scan. However, other households have not yet done so or have difficulty using such online comparators. For our group, it is important to legislate on this, in order to help consumers. In addition, this text reflects the will of the government agreement, which provides for work on dormant contracts. In our view, the original text provided too many interventions in the functioning of the energy market. Secondly, the opinions of CREG, the Council of State and the energy sector have changed in the right direction. The proposed law as amended by the majority provides that, when the contract of a residential customer or SME comes to an end, the supplier will deliver an overview of all its active products at least two months before the end of the agreement. Where the associated product is no longer active or its price differs from that of the active product, the supplier must inform the domestic customer or the SME at the same time as the previous communication. It is open to them to submit a new proposal for a contract. If the domestic customer or the SME has not responded to this request on the date of conclusion of the current agreement, the energy supplier will apply the lowest-priced fixed-term equivalent product available on the market at that time. It should be noted that this bill will allow many citizens – including households in difficulty – but also SMEs, to benefit from energy supply at a more advantageous price and to be able to compare their contracts in an already complex energy market. The MR Group will, of course, support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago we adopted my resolution on the simplification of energy bills. At that time, I said that we moved a stone into the river together, but that many stones still have to be moved. The energy bill must not only be simplified, it must also be cheaper. Our energy bill is still too high. The federal part of the energy bill needs to go down. That is also stated in our resolution. We hope that our long-demanded energy standard will eventually come about. So there's still a lot of work to be done. Unfortunately, at the moment there are still a lot of people who, especially out of ignorance, still pay too much because they are stuck in a sleeping energy contract. Many citizens, and perhaps some of us, still have an old contract that is no longer actively offered today by the energy supplier, but is systematically renewed. Because of this, many people have been paying too much for their energy for years. With this bill, we wake up consumers in these dormant energy contracts. This legislative proposal contributes to the transparency of the energy market. As many colleagues have said, several steps have already been taken in the past. During the previous legislature, Mrs Muylle, then Minister for Economic Affairs, took important steps with regard to the revision of the consumer agreement in order to achieve greater transparency and consumer protection. This review was already a major step forward, but unfortunately the problem of dormant energy contracts was not solved. A large group of consumers remains very difficult to reach, does not respond or compares prices and is therefore still stuck to an old sleeping contract and pays too much. Mr Verduyckt, we are therefore very pleased that you have taken the initiative to put the problem of dormant energy contracts on the agenda. As many colleagues have said, it has been a fairly long process. A lot of advice has been asked and the original bill has been worked out very hard, but I think we can all say that there is a good bill here that we can all support. Much has been improved on the basis of the advice we have received, and it has been worth working on this together. That has only made the bill stronger. CD&V will certainly support this and is convinced to help and better inform many people. However, the work is not yet finished. The energy market must be made more transparent and more affordable. Much remains to be done. So we look forward to the initiatives that will be taken by the various relevant ministers to make the energy bill more affordable, simpler and transparent for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the practice of dormant contracts is, of course, a textbook example of how consumers are constantly misled in the liberalised energy market. The liberalisation of the energy market has led to an explosion of energy contracts, with a mess of tariffs and price formulas. In fact, the consumer is constantly lost in that jungle. Maybe I should talk about a wild river like in Walibi, because it's about moving rocks in the river. Those contracts are permanently lost. Besides, I can't always take it out myself when I have to look for it. The most vulnerable are those who are the victims. They pay the price, literally. Of course, suppliers make use of the mess of the liberalised energy market to attract too expensive energy contracts. That is also the case with the sleeping contracts. According to the latest figures of the CREG, there are 1 million people in Belgium, there are 11 million Belgians who pay on average 500 euros for their energy every year. That's just a shame. An even greater shame is that this has been known for years. I Googled for a while and found an article about the CREG from 2016 five years ago, and that may not even be the first article entitled "CREG warns about dormant energy contracts." It is therefore a shame, in itself, that this situation has been dragged on for so long, even though it was known. Mr Verduyckt and his bill, which was first discussed in committee on 13 May 2020, just over a year ago, deserve to be corrected. But then time was lost again. In the meantime, a new government was formed and Minister Van der Straeten preferred to speak with the companies, because she was counting on the goodwill of the companies to abandon the misleading practices they have been doing for years. The PVDA-PTB has said from the outset that it is about misleading practices and that this should be regulated by law. In this sense, we have always supported Mr Verduyckt's proposal, but then again some precious months have been lost. In the end, it turned out that the majority parties agreed to regulate this legally. I regret that a number of months have been lost. In addition, suppliers will have a number of months to adapt and abandon their misleading practices until 1 January 2022. All this at the expense of the consumer. To take a broader look at the issue, it is of course the intention of the suppliers to make profits in a liberalised energy market and to distribute as many dividends as possible to the shareholders. That problem is not solved. Our solution is a public energy company that makes large-scale investments to deliver renewable and affordable energy, with a government regulated and cheap energy rate for all individuals, self-employed and small businesses. Such a company does not have profit as its goal, but it does have affordable and green electricity. What have I heard here? Several speakers regret that consumers do not know that they can get a cheaper rate and ask citizens to use the CREG Scan to find the best rates. In our view, it is up to the government to do so, rather than to shift that responsibility to the families. In the meantime, we support every small step towards more market regulation and stricter government action against such abuses and misleading practices, and that is why we will also vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal has already come a long way. Where there was still a very strong intervention in market forces at the beginning, the proposal evolved in the right direction after several legal and other opinions. The last series of amendments also respond to certain comments made by the sector, in particular concerning contracts of indefinite duration and avoiding unnecessary correspondence. After all, every letter costs money. We believe that these adjustments are correct and fair, as the sector will have to adapt to the new legislation. In the meantime, the government, in particular Secretary of State De Bleeker and the ministers Van der Straeten and Dermagne, has taken the necessary steps with the energy suppliers who still had dormant contracts to remove them from the range. This is now being followed up on the ground, which is positive. Open Vld also wants to make it as simple as possible for the consumer to know which contract one has and to be able to compare with other contracts. The older dormant contracts, which are often very expensive, must disappear in the short term. This bill wants that to be legally anchored and we will vote for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for once I do not mind getting the last word, because it allowed me to listen to previous speakers. First of all, I should like to thank the rapporteur for not reading the 115-page report. The thickness of the report certainly says something about the time it took to be presented here in plenary. I checked it out. Even though we considered it here more than a year ago, it was never in the slide; we have always worked on it. There were hearings, the Council of State's opinion, discussions with the sector, amendments and discussions in committee. So a lot of time has passed, but the drafting of legislation for a complex sector such as the energy sector is not obvious. Mrs. Dierick indicated that it was an interesting trial. For me, it was also a very educational and sometimes difficult process. I am certainly very pleased with the result that I can put to the vote today. After all, it is and remains an important legislative proposal that will partly change the appearance of our energy market. One of the important dates in that process was 18 November 2019, when the CREG, where the Energy Commission was visiting, explained the problem of the dormant contracts, which I would actually call dormant renewal products. At that time, according to the CREG, I checked it in my notes - 13,000 different formulas on our market, while it should only be 600 if we only look at the active products. Another number that has been mentioned here several times is the number of the 500,000 families. That figure was certainly the final spark for me to make the proposal. It was the beginning of a search for a good draft text; the sector is complex. Another important date was 11 May 2021, not so long ago, because then the committee unanimously agreed to submit the proposal in plenary. Why is that important to me? This shows that we are unanimous and united with many parties that there are mistakes in the energy sector, as it is regulated today. We have not freed up our market to chain consumers to non-similar products. For me, however, the most important date was April 26, 2021, not so long ago. Then I found in my mailbox a commercial e-mail from an energy supplier, which I will not mention by name - I quote - "Hi Kris Verduyckt, there are regular reports in the media about so-called dormant contracts in the energy sector. These are contracts with adverse tariffs which are no longer available on the market, but which are still automatically renewed. As a result, families pay too much for their energy. There is no question of sleeping contracts with us." If a commercial supplier sends out such a message, we're almost there, I thought. In that commercial communication, that supplier first distances itself from that mechanism, and secondly, the dormant contracts are used to address consumers. This means that many consumers have now realised that there is a problem in this area. The CREG has also been launching calls on this subject for a long time and Test Purchase has often pointed out this. Recently, the radio program De Inspector also invited some people to testify about sleeping products. So there was a question to do something about it, a question that was also asked to politicians. Reference is made here to the government and I welcome the fact that the government has cooperated from the outset. Minister De Bleeker, who is present here, Minister Dermagne and Minister Van der Straeten have made first, good efforts to achieve results. This approach is evidence of good cooperation between the government and Parliament. What was the problem? It's already been sketched out enough. Until today, we allow suppliers to bind customers to old, expensive and, above all, non-comparable contracts. The latter, in particular, helps consumers reach a vicious circle of higher costs, for families up to hundreds of euros a year and for SMEs a multiple of them. So companies make profits with products that aren't actually in the store anymore. I thought that was unseen and unfair, all the more so because only a few work with sleeping contracts. Each family receives an energy bill, an invoice that takes a big bite out of the family budget for many families, and it goes wrong if bill payment plans have to be drawn up and collection agencies try to collect them. You will not hear me say that the present bill solves these problems. Sleeping energy contracts will undoubtedly play a role, but other factors will provide a solution, as several colleagues have pointed out. In any case, today we are drawing a legal line under the dormant contracts. I will not explain the proposal anymore, Mr Ravyts, but there are some clear agreements in it for the supplier, if he still works with sleeping contracts. With the adoption of this proposal, dormant contracts will disappear from our market from 1 January next year. This will indeed have consequences, because the active contracts were mentioned - the figures are a lot cheaper than the old ones. Colleagues, for me and for all of us, we hope that this will take us a step towards a new, fairer and more transparent free energy market. We can't make a mistake. It is not because we tell the dormant contracts that we should not encourage consumers to compare contracts and regularly switch to another supplier or choose other products from the same supplier. If we all do this together, we put pressure on the market to offer good, correct prices. We must insist on that. We are, of course, also counting on the government, Mrs De Bleeker, when it comes to the simple invoice, among other things. You can count on Parliament today. We are counting on you when it comes to this, because we can still make progress there. Colleagues, I have just mentioned three dates which I think are important. I would like to mention one more, a date that you may all know, namely 20 June 2019. On that day, together with many of you, I took an oath in Parliament. That was a moment when I agreed with myself and with my group to work for good and fair legislation for all families, for all entrepreneurs and organisations in our country. That is why it is a special time for me to present a legislative proposal that will have an impact on the energy market. I would like to thank everyone who worked on the proposal before or behind the scenes. It'll make a difference later. I would also, of course, like to thank all my fellow Members who have given me their support and their patience to get to this point. Above all, it is an incentive to go further and move more stones into the river, which the energy sector does need.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u91	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u92	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1136/8) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1136/8) The title has been amended by the Commission in "Proposal for a law amending various provisions relating to the extension of energy supply contracts for residential customers and SMEs". The title was changed by the Committee to "legislative proposal amending various provisions on the extension of energy contracts between household customers and SMEs'. The bill has 6 articles. The bill has 6 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u93	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u94	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Laaouej and Mr Van der Donkt. They shall refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today I am replacing Mr Van der Donkt who has followed this dossier in detail in committee. He has much more in his mind about the expertise and the details of this than I do, but I would like to mention a number of elements that were discussed in committee in plenary. After all, it is a very large and important draft law. This can only be seen from the fact that it has more than 400 articles. Many laws, some 25, are also being amended. It is not only large in pages and articles, it is also large in impact. There is, for example, a ten-year extension of the State guarantee for Dexia. This is about a maximum amount of EUR 39 billion. So what's in the mood here isn't cat piss. This is very extensive and far-reaching. I would therefore like to raise two points which we have also formulated in committee on the substance of the matter, which are remarkable. The first concerns the organisation of the forms of management of NV's and BV's. The conclusion here is that the Minister of Finance continues to work on the Code of Companies and Associations. Their impact is reflected in those 25 laws. There is a discussion about the form in which NV's and BVS are governed: the monist vision or the dualist vision. The point was also made in committee. As a rule, there is often a dual system in which one works with a management board and a supervisory board which are separated from one another. One cannot sit in both councils, which means that there is a real division of labour. This draft law specifically changes the management of investment companies. They become obligatory monistic. In principle, management companies and asset management companies are also becoming monistic. We are left with the question of why this absolutely had to be changed. I was not going to repeat a second point here, but I am doing so because I was put in the mood and the vote by Mr Leysen's oral question. He called on the Minister of Work to show greater ambition in creating jobs and to ensure that people get to work and the employment rate increases. Mr Leysen, I think it is a good ambition to get more people to work. I was just sorry that your statement might have been a little selective. You have not mentioned a number of things, but I would like to quote them briefly as inspiration to get to work on them. First, your party has been in all possible federal governments for over 20 years. That might be helpful to know. Secondly, it may also be useful to know that the employment rate in Flanders is 76 % today. In Wallonia, that is only 64 %, in Brussels only 61 %. Perhaps you could take a look at that, see how this is handled. Perhaps you could also look at exactly where people are employed, which brings me to this bill. We find that in Wallonia it is often a question of government jobs. This is the case for more than 21% of the jobs, while in Flanders this is only the case in 14% of the cases. You are right, Mr Leysen, a government must create the context in which jobs are created and people get started, but this is best done in the private sector. Here I see that this broad bill has already created one additional job, a new, paid government commissioner at the FPIM. There was already a good government commissioner from the Minister of Finance, but apparently there is another paid, additional government commissioner, one from the Minister of Economic Affairs of the PS. Mr. Leysen, at least one job has been created. I hope that the next job creation will be dealt with in a different, perhaps more expert way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u96	Madam President, this very comprehensive bill, which broke a record with more than 1,219 pages, wants to deal with a number of issues that fall within the remit of the National Bank, the FSMA and the FPS Finance. Thirteen years after the financial crisis, the government still needs to take measures to deal with the consequences of that financial crisis. While there is already a new crisis, the corona crisis, which Belgium was not prepared for at all, we are still in the process of legislative work on the 2008 crisis. Since 2008, as a result of that financial crisis, guarantees have been granted by the federal government on Dexia's interbank loans and on structured, risky assets of some financial institutions. Since autumn 2014, Dexia has only benefited from the State guarantee because the outstanding amounts of the guarantees in favour of KBC and Ageas have fallen to zero. At the end of this year, the current guarantee scheme in favour of Dexia would expire, but this draft law will extend it for as much as ten years and for the considerable amount of EUR 75 billion. As a result of Dexia's bankruptcy, Arcopar's savings and that of the affiliated co-operatives also went up in smoke. It was one of the biggest financial scandals in Belgian history and also there was initially worked with a state guarantee. However, this scheme was destroyed. The mega-process around Arco starts in June. This week we were able to read in all the newspapers that the many thousands of victims, Arcocoeperanten, will quite rightly drag Beweging.net to justice. In October 2020, the CD&V President, Mr Coens, said that Arco would definitely be on the government table. We therefore asked the Minister in committee how far that is going to go, whether the dossier will actually be on the government table and whether Mr Van Peteghem, as Deputy Prime Minister, will put the dossier back on the government table. We regret, however, that the Minister did not want to go into the matter. We will of course continue to follow the file closely and follow the CD&V with it. For the Flemish Interest it is clear that the blame lies solely with movement.net, the former ACW. Under no circumstances should the taxpayer bear the brunt of this. The ACW deceived the savers with the lie that it was a responsible and risk-free investment. According to the Flemish interest, this case should have ended a long time ago. Movement.net, which now has its investments in tax havens, also has the means to compensate each of the savers it has cheated on. We will continue to defend that position in the coming weeks and months and to question the Minister. This bill also abolishes the Kringloopfonds. That Kringloopfonds is a red-green vehicle that we are seeing again today under this purple-green government. I had to look it up, but the fund was founded in 2003. It was John Crombez's first political step, and immediately a misstep, who would be in the fund in 2003 on behalf of - how could it be otherwise - then Budget Minister Johan Vande Lanotte. That Kringloopfonds was therefore a project of Vande Lanotte, enthusiastically supported by Els Van Weert, then Secretary of State for Sustainable Development, and of Spirit signature. The Kringloop Fund, which would stimulate investment in the green and social economy, raised EUR 75 million through a bond loan. Only six years later, however, the fund went into liquidation. Officially it was called the transfer of the social economy to the Regions, but in reality the financial management of the fund was a complete mess. The Kringloopfonds acted as a door for organisations from friendly and politically branched civil society. Via Sowescom, a part of the Walloon regional investment company, the Walloon government had a credit line of no less than 12 million euros at the Kringloopfonds. However, with the approval of those politically appointed directors, the Kringloopfonds entered into toxic financial products of Fortis and KBC. The financial crisis knocked down these unwise investments and the Kringloopfonds went into liquidation, with the result that a final bank loan with state guarantee had to be made to pay out the bond holders. The total budgetary impact of the liquidation today is EUR 27 million for the budget, which is paid by the taxpayer. The Minister also replied to our questions in committee. None of the political leaders were punished or called to order, quite the contrary. The former director is working for Triodos Bank today, once the privileged partner of the Kringloopfonds. The former chairman, an experienced cabtard of sp.a and the PS, is working today at Infrabel and Els Van Weert, together with Johan Vande Lanotte one of the gangmakers of the Kringloopfonds, has even been promoted today by the government as head of the cabinet of Minister De Sutter. This respects the first rule of Belgian politics, that of political self-preservation: no one loses his job, because the Belgian system, the Belgian circus, has to keep running. The taxpayer ultimately pays for all these mistakes. Moreover, the present draft establishes a new fund, the Transformation Fund, to make the transition to what is called a sustainable economy. So the circle is complete. The old fund has not yet been settled or the new fund has already been set up, and once again there are political appointments to be made. Both the Minister of Finance, Van Peteghem, and the Minister of Economy, Dermagne, may nominate a government commissioner. Let us hope that the Transformation Fund does not leave a financial hangover like the Kringloop Fund. The draft law also contains a comprehensive chapter on technical adaptations and amendments resulting from the introduction of the Code of Companies and Associations, which amended company and association law on many points a few years ago. The draft law also focuses on new financial technologies. The new technologies include blockchain and crypto coins. The best known implementation of blockchain is of course the bitcoin, a form of cryptocurrency. Furthermore, a royal decision would be in preparation to control crypto coin providers, something the legal actors and the FSMA have long been counting on to avoid the use of crypto coins for money laundering or terrorist financing. The Royal Decree would soon be submitted to the Council of Ministers. I would like to take advantage of the plenary to ask you, Minister, whether you can inform Parliament about the preliminary draft Royal Decree on Bitcoin and other crypto coins. Finally, this draft law makes it possible to grant up to a quarter of a billion euros in loans to the International Development Association. In view of the annual accounts of the International Development Association, the IDA, it seems unlikely that the authorised loans will ever be repaid. The institution is making continuous losses. As a result, the facts are about transfers, not loans. Strictly budgetaryally, these amounts are entered as loans, but in fact they are grants. Moreover, it should not be stressed here that many of these transfers and grants in the context of development aid often do not end up where they should end up effectively. To make a long story short, this bill contains much earlier technical changes. However, the underlying dossiers - Dexia, Arco, the Kringloop Fund and the political appointments - are matters where we have a number of political reservations. That is why we will abstain in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u97	Madam Chair, this bill is entitled "Proposal for various financial provisions". Unsurprisingly, it contains various financial provisions in no less than 411 articles, including many technical ones, but not only. Two important points of this text are a real problem for us. On the one hand, there is legislation on supervision of the banking sector, which is adapted to the new Code of Companies and Associations. On the other hand, there is the extension of the State guarantee to bad bank Dexia. As far as the first point is concerned, the aim here is to amend the legislation which organizes the supervision of the banking sector because it refers to the old Company Code. However, in 2019, under the previous legislature, this code was replaced by a new code, the Code of Companies and Associations. In committee, the Minister of Finance was reassuring, stating at the outset that this part of his bill "does not constitute an extension or restriction of the provisions in force". This is the problem because, for us, this "new" Company Code, which dates back to 2019, is particularly doubtful in that it introduces a fairly extensive liberalisation and flexibilisation of company law. It was our colleague CD&V, Koen Geens, who was present a moment ago, former Minister of Finance and then Justice and founder of the business law firm Eubelius, who initiated this new Code of Companies. He himself had admitted that he had commissioned a lawyer from Eubelius to work on this code. What is the problem with this Code of Companies? I understand that in this case it is only an adaptation, but I want to go back to the nature of this Code of Companies. For Koen Geens, at the time, this new code had to position Brussels on the European map against London or Amsterdam, for example. Basically, we are already in a sort of tax haven logic, not in the tax field, but in corporate law. The aim was to attract multinationals through legislation that could be beneficial to them – which is the case since the text has passed. In fact, Koen Geens had declared that this reform was aimed at making Belgium the "Delaware of Europe". Those were his words! The Delaware, from which the current president of the United States comes, is known for its tax magnificence. We know that the big American multinationals have a company based in Delaware. But it is not only the tax larges that are of interest to multinationals, it is also all the flexibility and offers of company law granted by this US state. This is the model followed for the Code of Enforcement Societies in our country today. This new code introduces the doctrine of the registered office, instead of the registered office, which makes it possible to determine which country's law is applicable to a company. It is an open door to questionable montages from which multinationals, their managers and shareholders can benefit. It should also be noted that it creates the possibility of assigning multiple voting rights to shares of a corporation. In an actional "democracy", it is obviously not that a man is worth a voice, but that an action is worth a voice! He who has ten shares will therefore have ten votes, and he who has ten million will have ten million votes. As if that was not enough, this code has been more advanced. This was not enough for some of the great capitalists of our country, and in particular the late Albert Frère, famous carolo billionaire, who had long defended this principle of a multiple vote: the principle by which certain shares of a society give rise to several votes. He himself held shares for billions of euros. But one of his obsessions was to have a multiplier leverage effect to have even more voting rights with his millions of shares. Thus he had set up a complex shareholder structure with a sophisticated chain of control to multiply the decision-making power of his capital, which, however, was not restricted. With shares giving more voting rights than others, the same result is achieved in a much simpler way. Unfortunately for him, Albert Brother died in December 2018 and the law introducing the new Company Code was promulgated in March 2019, three to four months later. This code offered Albert Brother's old dream: shares with multiple voting rights. This was obviously not lost for his heirs since since 2020, GBL, the holding company of the Brother family introduced double voting rights. The Echo wrote at the time: "The double voting rights will allow the Brothers and Desmarais families to hold control live at more than 40% on GBL." Indeed, if you are going to see the latest available data on GBL's shareholding, you will see that these two families own, via a Swiss company, 28.2% of the GBL shares, but 43.2% of the voting rights. So this is one of the wonders of this Code of Companies: double voting rights for billionaires and simple voting rights for small shareholders! As if to demonstrate the employer nature of this new code, when the law passed, a brochure was written by the FEB and co-edited by it and the FPS Justice. The preface was co-signed by the then Minister, Mr Geens, and the Secretary General of the FEB. We will therefore apply this code, through legislation, to banking legislation. You'll understand that we don't support this kind of thing. The other problematic aspect of this text is the extension of the State guarantee to Dexia's bad bank. This project extends for 10 years a state guarantee of 40 billion euros for Dexia. Many remember the bailout of the banks, this sad episode with tens of billions of euros coming from the taxpayers' pocket to be guarantor of tens of billions of euros. This was strongly contested at the time. It should still be remembered that Dexia was saved several times with taxpayers' money: a first time for 2.5 billion euros, a second time with 4 billion euros, a third time with 3 billion euros. Clearly, it is easier to find billions for banks than to increase pensions immediately to 1,500 euros net. These same taxpayers are then obliged to be guarantors for tens of billions of euros for the bad bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u98	Mr. Van Hees, I'm interrupting you. Mr. Vanden Burre would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u99	I did not intend to speak on this text, but in view of Mr. Van Hees, on a previous point, I would like to react. This is an interesting point. This is the multiple and double voting right. I am talking about this because we have been very busy with this subject in the last legislature and we have defended it at the level of the environmental group. Why? It is a system that allows for the protection of small economic structures such as SMEs and ECTs, which are generally owned by family structures. That's the classic scheme. They are people who have invested part of their energy and life in a business or a business, usually an SME. This mechanism allows them to protect against frequently external financial predators who would buy this company for completely speculative purposes, and which would completely destroy the industrial and in general local project, linked to these companies. I am really surprised that you are so destructive and negative in relation to this measure that has a real interest in protecting the SMEs anchored in us from speculative investors, usually foreign, who destabilize our industrial fabric. It is a fair protection measure that protects the weakest and most fragile economic structures. So I think it's a good measure. Moreover, in France it was carried by Arnaud Montebourg which can hardly be described as a great capitalist. You should look at your notions a little bit, dear colleague Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u100	Thank you, Mr Vanden Burre. It is quite interesting to see how, by pretending to defend SMEs, you finally satisfied an old claim of the billionaire carolo Albert Frère, of which we know that he has enriched himself in a particularly dubious way, often at the expense of the state. I am not going to recall these multiple episodes here, because this is not the debate. As I have shown, this is an old claim of Albert Brother. It was applied by a minister who was from a business law firm and had the support of the FEB. Indeed, as I said, they celebrated it with great pomp. I am therefore not sure that this has been done for SMEs, I think it has been done for the big billionaire families in this country. Madam Chair, I had moved on to the other contentious point of this bill, which is the extension of the state guarantee to bad bank Dexia. I recalled that Dexia had been saved on numerous occasions by the taxpayer, that this rescue had cost a lot of money and that, here, we are still asking for a ten-year extension of a guarantee of 40 billion euros for the same Dexia bank, or at least for the bad bank part of Dexia. An interpreter of the Chamber kindly told me that the French term for bad bank was "structure de défance", but it is perhaps less telling than "bad bank". When the Dexia group was on the brink of bankruptcy, we proceeded in the same way as for Fortis: we divided the activities into two – and even more than two in the case of Dexia because there were foreign activities – and placed the toxic assets in the bad bank. It is these assets that we are discussing here, those with a large state guarantee. Healthy assets, on the other hand, have been placed in new structures. For Belgian banking activities, this was what would become the Belfius bank. We could support this split and guarantee if they were in line with a logic of admitting that we've done a little bit of anything, playing "the casino economy", but we've learned the experience of the financial and banking crisis, so that we're going to do something else today from this Belfius bank. We are going to make it a truly public bank – not just a bank with public capital – that fulfils societal tasks, to satisfy the needs currently unmet by the banking sector towards the population, SMEs, etc. However, this is not at all what the previous governments or the current government have done. We know that Belfius operates like other private banks, even if it is 100 per cent in the hands of the state. We make the bride more beautiful every day, hoping that one day we can privatize her and sell her to the private. What are we going to do this way? We're going to socialize losses through the bad bank and the state guarantee, and privatize profits on the day this bank is transferred to the private sector. The socialization of losses and the privatization of profits are old principles of this capitalist society, but you will understand that they cannot be supported. Therefore, we will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u101	Madam President, I will be brief. 'Various provisions' is a broad matter. The report covers all the points in detail. I do not need to explain that the policy of this government is in the middle, that is the advantage of being allowed to speak after Mr Van Hees. The only thing I would like to point out, like others, is that the crypto coins also require the attention of the Minister of Finance. We will, of course, approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u102	Does anyone else wish to intervene? I give the floor to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u103	Madam President, I would like to thank everyone for their comments on this draft law. Since the draft contains 441 articles, we have had a very extensive discussion in committee. I have heard many of the comments and comments that we have discussed in committee. To a very specific question from two colleagues on the state of play of the crypto coins, I would like to go into a few more details. I can inform you that the Royal Decree implementing it is currently being discussed within the government and will be submitted to the Council of State next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u104	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u105	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1887/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1887/5) The bill has 419 articles. The draft law contains 419 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u106	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u107	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Messrs. Leysen and Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u108	Madam Chair, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u109	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u110	Madam President, once again this is a dossier of our party colleague Van der Donkt, whom I am delighted to replace here. The file is alive; we have all noticed this in our mailboxes. Our colleague had divided his speech into two parts: one on the legal aspect of the proposal and the other on the practical aspects, which are the main points. There are questions about, on the one hand, the soundness of the legal work, the parliamentary committee, so to speak, in relation to the special mechanisms to be set up by the financial institutions and their notification to the National Bank. On the other hand, it should be noted that there is a new obligation to notify the UBO register, which we have received some emails about. Firstly, I will deal with the legal and technical aspects. What's going on? There will be a special mechanism in the light of the role of supervisors, which will simply implement the recommendation of the Special Committee on Panama Papers and the Optima Research Committee. The condition of double criminalisation is lifted. There will be the notification mechanism to the public prosecutors, with supervisors having to report that particular mechanism more quickly. The technical discussion involves implementation, but the question is whether this has been done legally in the best possible way. As Members of Parliament, we must all be careful to ensure that the work we are doing is as precise as possible and gives rise to as little confusion as possible and subsequent legal proceedings. If we can do our job properly, it will help the people on the ground. I fear that we have missed a number of opportunities in this area. However, steps were taken. A note from the Legal Service pointed to the impact of a number of cases as well as to a number of linguistic points that were not precisely incorporated into the text. For example, the French text does not correspond to the Dutch text everywhere. Unfortunately, the second reading, a procedure designed to ensure that such problems are resolved in practice, has been used sub-optimally. For a second reading there is a ten-day time limit, but no one is obliging us to move forward immediately after the tenth day. We can also take more time for a second reading and that would have been useful, because the Minister's replies to the comments made by the Legal Service, among others, showed that he did not consider some of them appropriate and would examine others further. Maybe we should have taken a little more time to investigate. Then maybe we wouldn't run any risks with the text. In any case, that will now have to be demonstrated on the ground. It's not the first time we've done sloppy work here, so let's not dramatize it either. In any case, we could have used the second reading to integrate the suggestions made by our own legal service, which is very valuable in Parliament, in the most efficient way. So much for the first remark by the lawyer Sander Loones. My second point is that Members have the task of delivering sound legislation that works on the ground. We must ensure that those who have to apply the legislation can do so in a legally certain way, without harming their interests. Well, there's some concern about that, isn't there? There's gonna be a new money-laundering system. And new reporting obligations are imposed on the accountants, tax advisors, auditors, notaries, bailiffs, who have sent us e-mails. That reporting obligation would apply if they established a difference between the data on the final beneficiaries at their disposal and the relevant data in the UBO register, which is managed by the Treasury. What does that mean? In other words, the legislative proposal outsources the accuracy of a government database, which is the UBO register, to the private sector. After all, private partners such as tax advisors are asked to help make the government database as up-to-date and as accurate as possible. More than that, they are obliged to do so. Moreover, they initially even had to pay for extracts from that register. But that is where the second reading brought some advice. It is now ensured that access to the UBO register is free of charge. Anyway, that's not at the heart of the discussion. The essence of the discussion is, of course, that if the government asks for cooperation, even imposes an additional obligation on private players, it also takes their concerns into account as closely as possible. The many dozens, even hundreds of e-mails we have received, prove that there are concerns in this area. What exactly is going on? A suspicion of fraud should be reported to the Financial Information Processing Cell (CFI). On top of that, the UBO register must also be reported. Fraudsters are smart enough to carry out their fraud by working with troopers who are listed as debtors in that UBO register but are not the real beneficiaries, so that they are found less quickly. Well, not only can there be errors in the reports of suspicion of organised crime and terrorist financing to the CFI, but also in the reports to the UBO register now that there is a double reporting obligation. In addition, those who have to make the reports are concerned about their own physical integrity; they fear that they can be attacked. Do not underestimate what this is about, namely the fight against fraud. We must tackle them very hard, let us be very clear, fraud must not be tolerated. This means, for example, that an accountant can be confronted with the mafia. Mafia practices are not very gentle and it is not nothing if one has to choose between the strict application of the law and one's own physical integrity. Why is anyone who has to report such suspicions afraid? The procedure for reporting to the CFI is well regulated: anonymity is guaranteed and the research is specifically developed; all of this works well. In the case of compulsory notification to the UBO register, there is another system. That UBO register should be in contact with a number of persons, to which it in turn has to report and one plus one is quickly two. If I have been to my accountant as a mafia man and the accountant finds that something is not right and he reports that to the CFI and to the UBO register, and the latter then contacts the company behind which the mafia is hiding, one can imagine that a shady figure is looking for who did that to him. There is therefore a great deal of concern in this regard. We have also taken these concerns seriously in committee and adopted amendments to better guarantee anonymity. However, it is clear that the steps to cover that flank are not sufficiently reassuring. What's the solution? After all, it is always easy to complain and see, but it is more interesting to offer solutions. The solution is on the table and is not ours, but the ITAA, the sector itself. It agrees with the obligation to report fraud, which ultimately implements the recommendation of the Panama Commission...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, he argued that the first step should be to limit the obligation to notify the CFI to a procedure in which anonymity is ensured, to report the facts to the UBO register in the second instance only if the CFI takes further steps, so that the correct information is included. This seems to me to be a very pragmatic solution, which ensures that the government knows what it needs to know and that the people on the ground feel safe. I sincerely hope that your government and the entire majority will support that proposal. One of the lines you often turn off is that you listen to experts. Here is an excellent opportunity to listen to experts, who are the people of the field, who know very well how things work and can assess the possible consequences. That's a first call. Listen to experts and do it again here. Secondly, your government likes to be pro-European. There are clear recommendations, considerations and expectations of Europe not to be too light-hearted in this respect. I refer to recital 41 in the Directive 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the European Council. In that recital, I quote - '... refers to a number of cases where workers who have reported a suspicion of money laundering have been the subject of threats and hostile actions'. So what we indicate here is not fictitious, just as it is not the e-mails we receive. The European Parliament and the European Council themselves also state that there were already threats and hostile actions. The European authorities also call on the Member States to take account of this problem and to do everything in their power to protect individuals from such threats or hostile actions. Your government listens to experts and also likes to listen to Europe. There is currently an amendment from the sector. If the problem lies in the fact that the N-VA has tabled that amendment, then I have no problem having it replaced by a majority amendment. You can perfectly copy the text; there is no shred of honorability attached to it. However, the amendment is based on a practical and very real concern to solve the problem. Let us not do that with repair legislation; we should do proper legal work immediately. Not only does this benefit Parliament but also the government. The people in the field, who have to implement this, are entitled to sound parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u111	Madam President, the fight against fraud is an important issue for us, environmentalists. This government is busy implementing recommendations from the Panama, Optima special commissions and hearings around the FinCEN files. That is a positive point. The first part of the law deals with specific mechanisms. One arrives in a changeover because one simply forbids these particular mechanisms, which make fraud possible. The changeover lies in the fact that there is no longer a need to prove that an individual or company has actually benefited from the fraud, it is sufficient to prove that this mechanism exists. So we can work upstream, before there's a profit. This measure therefore improves the effectiveness of the fight against fraud. It's a dam that jumps concretely and it's quite positive. The second part concerns money laundering. By this measure, the UBO registry will be made more in line with reality. It's in the UBO register that we identify who owns what. This allows for transparency. It was thanks to the UBO register, for example, that the OpenLux scandal was brought to light. Mr Minister, when we debated in the Finance Committee about the disclosures on the OpenLux file, you told us that the UBO register should be reliable and usable. It is in this sense that this provision is going, and that is why we are following you very closely. To make this UBO register reliable and usable, to be able to give more transparency, to be able to collect more and better the tax, the professions of the figure are our allies in this fight against all frauds. Many of us have been contacted and we have heard their requests to find a balance between an optimal fight against fraud via this register, which must be complete and in line with reality at a time when there is a divergence, and the protection and real functioning of this register. Some of the advances that were proposed as the text was discussed included the fight against fraud in our country in relation to our European obligations, others on the protection of professionals when they have to modify the UBO register and, finally, some still on access to the register. This balance, which I observe, of course, allows for more transparency. This is essential, because fraud costs 20 billion a year. Every effort must therefore be made to combat this phenomenon effectively. Are we saved by this law? Is the work done? No, there's still some left. It's a step in the right direction. Whenever the government wants to take another step, it will find Ecolo-Groen behind it to encourage it. In any case, I would like to reiterate that this government is implementing the recommendations of the special commissions on tax evasion, so that it is certainly taking the right direction. We will, of course, support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u112	Mrs Cornet, I have missed an element in your explanatory statement, namely your answer to those people who are concerned about the application of this draft. Those people fear for their physical integrity. What do you answer these hundreds of people?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u113	That was the answer given in committee by the amendment which was defended. This amendment strikes a balance, as I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u114	I take note of the answer. Of course, we must go for the great ideal and ensure that this fraud is dealt with. Hopefully we will always remain human and pay attention to the human concerns on the ground. It is very clear that they have not been removed with the amendment in committee. Apparently, you're at peace with that after all. At least I have a different attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u115	As we said in committee, it is important to stay tuned to the way this will be done on the ground. As I said, a balance is found here, to better combat fraud while offering protection of anonymity. It is true that this is not exactly what was requested by the sector. As I say in committee, and I repeat in plenary, we remain attentive to the way this is going. We are still listening to what the sector would like to continue to give us as information. But I think that the answers provided by the amendment make it possible to find that balance that I was talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u116	Madam President, indeed, the measures contained in this bill are of concern to accountants and tax advisers. Mr Loones already referred to the hundreds of e-mails of this profession. I see a number of recipients of these hundreds of e-mails in the room. There might have been over 1,000 e-mails. I took the trouble to answer them all in person. If I can believe the responses I received in my mailbox, the Flemish Interest is the only party that has sent an answer to all these people in response to their concerns. I hear Mrs De Block sighing, but the accountants and fiscalists must report differences between the UBO register and their own data in accordance with this bill. The lack of secrecy gives rise to concerns about their safety. We care about that, Mrs. De Block. Financial intermediaries play a crucial role in the fight against money laundering and the financing of illegal practices. On behalf of the Flemish Interest, I have called on the Finance Committee to hear the representatives of the ITAA, the Institute of Accountants and Tax Advisors, within the framework of this bill. The majority parties, Open Vld, the MR, CD&V, Forward, the PS, Green and Ecolo, simply voted off that proposal. It was wiped off the table. While hearings are being held on the first best resolution, while opinions are being requested for the first best bill, no professional groups are being invited for major draft laws such as this. Understand who can understand. This bill is pushed down the throats of the accountants and tax advisers. Participation of relevant professions such as the ITAA in the legislative process is extremely important. This is the only way to achieve clear, well-managed and practically enforceable legislation. Well, that turns out again. It is now clear that this draft law entails safety risks for the accountants and tax advisers. That needs to be adapted for us. The customers of the accountants and fiscalists can easily ascertain where a report comes from to their disadvantage. That could expose those financial intermediaries to threats or reprisals. Money laundering is often associated with organised crime. Over 1,000 members of the ITAA expressed their concern at Parliament last week. Moreover, there is an additional risk that the accounts and tax advisors will simply not apply this legislation in practice, or that the ITAA will go to the Constitutional Court to have it destroyed. That is why we have one specific question, Minister. Are you prepared to amend the bill at the request of the thousands of members of the ITAA? Are you prepared to ensure the safety of accountants and tax advisors? That is the question that we, but also those hundreds of professionals, small and large offices that have crawled into their pen this week, would like to see answered today. Mrs Cornet was just talking about it, Mr Leysen was nodding too. There was even applause from the majority. Members of the majority argued that if problems arise, an assessment of the law could be carried out. That is, of course, very cynical. First things have to be thoroughly wrong before intervention and correction is made. The right road is, of course, the opposite. Better to avoid problems than to heal afterwards. It seems as if accurate tracking of the UBO register is a priority for the safety of accountants and tax advisors. We very much regret that signal from the government. We will support the amendment tabled by the organisation, which was tabled by Mr Loones on behalf of the organisation in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u117	Dear colleague, I cannot let you say that you are the only one who has had contact with the sector. That's not the case. I don't know who you e-mailed or phoned to, but I can tell you you're not the only one. I think that the minister will also be perfectly placed to tell you how the consultation took place with the sector. I will not let you say things that are contrary to the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u118	Mrs Cornet, Mr Loones has asked you what your answer is to the many e-mails we have received since the committee meeting. The only thing we hear from you and the other members of the majority parties here today is exactly the same position as the answer at that committee meeting. Despite all these e-mails, you didn't do anything until today. You didn't answer them, nor did you meet them. The Flemish Interest believes it is important to meet these people, to open their eyes and ears to their concerns, especially because it is about safety, in this case of accountants and tax advisors. Perhaps this majority would like to wait until things go badly wrong before the legislation can be amended. Madam President, with your approval, I would like to continue my speech because I would like to discuss another aspect of this draft law. This bill was written after the amendment of the European Anti-Money Laundering Directive, but also in the aftermath of the FinCEN files, the Panama Papers and the Optima scandal. Above all, we have noticed that neither the committee nor this plenary are discussing the Optima dossier. I'd like to talk to you about that right now. The present draft law implements some of the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry responsible for investigating the causes of Optima Bank's bankruptcy and the possible conflict of interests between Optima and the public authorities. You all know that heads of both sp.a and Open Vld unscrupulously grabbed into the pockets of unsuspecting Optima customers. Former sp.a. Minister Van den Bossche experienced the Optima vehicle and was involved in the board, knowing well that it was a vehicle consisting of financial deception and experimental investment speculation. In April, we were able to read in Het Nieuwsblad that the prosecutor would like to take the former minister to court. "Falseness in writing, abuse of trust and the deliberate deception of the National Bank" is, according to the article, a number of matters which the public prosecutor is charging the socialist politician with in the file of the bankrupt Optima Bank. In his own city of Ghent, Van den Bossche was, by the way, the architect of the purple coalition, which later was also federally installed and is the precursor of the purple-green government. Van den Bossche not only dragged his own credibility into his fall, but also his party's, sp.a, now Forward. After all, the socialist web around Optima is not limited to Van den Bossche. Former Head of the Cabinet of Willy Claes and former Senator Herman Verwilst also controlled Optima's financial mafia. That Verwilst was still under suspicion in 2012 for price manipulation did not prevent the Optima Summit from putting him at the helm of the board of directors. Furthermore, then Ghent sp.a. Mayor Daniel Termont and then PS chairman Di Rupo also graced the crooked Optima network. The former Prime Minister, contrary to the advice of the regulator FSMA, would have pressured the National Bank of Belgium to grant Optima a banking license. That's what De Tijd reported. That former sp.a President John Crombez Optima praised the idea of socialist self-service even in his role as Secretary of State for Combating Fraud at the time, strengthens the idea of socialist self-service. If we want to be intellectually honest, it is always the Flemish interest, then of course it is not true that the Optima network was exclusively red. The Liberals too, never shy of some grabby work, we have recently been able to find that again in the press, and they put the high word in the Optima mess. Think of pivotal character and former East Flemish Open Vld-deputed Versnick. I see all the socialists have left their couch. You must forgive us if we take it with a grain of salt, say, a straw truck full of salt, when the Socialists stand up in the government today as the great fraud fighters, as the knights of the fight against fraud. Under this government, the poachers become forest rangers, and we find this particularly unbelievable in the context of the present draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a draft law laying down various provisions on fraud, not only an important social issue but also an important issue for this government. The design contains two large shutters. The first part concerns the notification of special mechanisms. This is a result of, among other things, the committees relating to the FinCEN Files and the Panama Papers, but also of the Committee of Inquiry on Optima, which the Minister explicitly mentioned in his introduction. It is important to mention these special mechanisms that the court can be informed more quickly if something is wrong. These legal provisions are the first part of a triptych. Afterwards, the National Bank and the FSMA will also look at this in order to develop a circular. A protocol agreement will then be reached between the BBI on the one hand and the National Bank and the FSMA on the other. The second important part of this draft law is the UBO register, which is, moreover, regulated at European level in the Anti-Money Laundering Directive. First of all, this must be user-friendly and, secondly, it must be up-to-date and accurate. Thirdly, there must be the necessary guarantees for the number professions, as well as for the legal professions which form part of the control mechanism. That's three important parts. When we look at the first part, the user-friendliness, it has to work smoothly. The Minister confirmed in committee that there is constant work on the automation of certain documents and links. It is a good thing that the register is becoming more user-friendly, but of course there is also a certain cost involved. The amendments tabled remove that cost, so that people who have to consult the UBO register for professional reasons can do so free of charge. That doesn't mean that anyone can just sniff into all the data. After all, there are a number of thresholds in the UBO register. That is the first point, the user-friendliness. Secondly, being up-to-date and accurate, combined with the protection for the players working with it, the anonymity, is an important issue. Then we need to look closely at how this money laundering system works in the UBO register. Where subject entities, including the grade professions and the legal professions, come into contact with their clients, they should check a number of cases. If that investigation shows that there is a suspicion of money laundering, they must inform the CFI, which then investigates the case and, where appropriate, delivers it to the public prosecutor. That's the criminal justice hatch. It's important to establish that. The current legislation contains a lot of rules on this protection and confidentiality. There is another obligation to be met by the rating professions and the legal professions as subject entities. If, and this is what this draft law says, it finds that the data in the UBO register and the data in the field, therefore, differ from the client, they must report that discrepancy in the UBO register. That is not a criminal matter, but it is an administrative report. That notification should be made by those subject entities. It is the concern of the people in the field - the numbers and the legal professions - that this can happen anonymously, that there is a certain level of protection. It is also on this that further work has been carried out, after consultation between the Minister, the Cabinet and the professions, and with respect for European rules. On this basis, a number of amendments have been tabled. Those amendments make it very clear that the identity of the subject entity reporting to the UBO register must remain secret. Under no circumstances may it be communicated to the reporting agent concerned. So the client isn't gonna know. Then there's even more going on. If a report has to be made to a third party or to the King's Attorney or the federal prosecutor, then confidentiality is guaranteed there too. That's literally what the bill says. That way, it confirms anonymity. In this way, a number of factors are met. Firstly, the difference in procedure is respected, because notifications to the CFI are criminal law and reports of discrepancies in the UBO register are administrative. In this way it is confirmed that there is anonymity. In this way we also comply with European rules, because the European rules clearly state that the UBO register must be accurate, up-to-date and accurate. A change must be made as soon as possible. By adapting these matters in the draft, a kind of compromise has been made between the various factors. In this way, I believe that the directive is being implemented, but that the wishes on the ground are also being taken into account. This is a step further in the right direction to combat fraud. At the same time, it is, of course, important that there is a constant focus on the field, both on fraud and on all the actors involved in this money laundering relay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u120	Mr Matheï, I would nevertheless like to present to you one of the responses I received from one of the accounting offices. That says: it is really scandalous that this government places the responsibility of the government, in particular ensuring that the UBO register is in order, with the offices, with the private entrepreneurs. They need time for that, they need to harass their customers. In fact, it is a task of the government, of the officials, to verify that the UBO register is correct. That is my question to you now. Don't you think it is essential for the government itself to check and make sure that the UBO register is in order? Can the government simply place this task at the accounting offices and in the numbers professions? They all need time to do that, to invest hours in it. They have to invest in people and harass their customers for that. They have to bill their customers extra for that. That is the question of one of those offices, which I would like to put to you in concrete terms. Don't you think it's a core task of the government itself to ensure control?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u121	Money laundering legislation and the European directive naturally approach the fight against money laundering as an interplay between public authorities and actors in the field. There's a lot of talk about the subjugated entities. They are also controlled by a supervisor. This is an inherent aspect in combating money laundering. That can't just be deleted. This is not denied by the professional organisation, the ITAA, which has already been mentioned, on the contrary. They say that they absolutely want to cooperate in the fight against fraud. They also believe that this is an absolute task of their own. That can't be deleted. They must and will play an important role in this, and they do not deny it. They are of course also the link on the premises. If you really want to tackle fraud, you can't get past those subjugated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u122	The feeling is that the core task is laid down in the numbers professions and no longer lies with the government. Of course, fraud must be dealt with. No one in this House is against tackling fraud. There is broad support and responsibility for this, including among the professions. Of course, they are ethical enough to ensure that there is no fraud. It is also in their interest to ensure that this fraud disappears. However, the core task is being shifted, and that is the criticism of the professions and offices. That core task is being shifted too much to those professions. That is their fundamental criticism. I would have liked to have heard about that. Shouldn't that be the core task of the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u123	Your question is exactly the same as before, and I have just answered it. It's a combination of the two. The profession doesn't deny that either. They really sign up for this relay scheme and the fight against money laundering. It is important to work together on this and to make it as easy as possible for them to fulfil their task. That is why it is also important, for example, with the adaptation, including in consultation with the sector, that the consultation is free of charge. This is an important part, both financially and administratively, of reducing the burden. Such elements can of course be worked on, but the subject entities cannot be removed. That is what you are suggesting with that question, and I am answering the same question as before.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u124	Madam President, contrary to the previous draft which we do not support, we believe that this draft containing various financial provisions on the fight against fraud is in the right direction. Indeed, tax fraud amounts to EUR 30 billion. Earlier, Mr Cornet mentioned the amount of 20 billion. My estimates are a little higher. In any case, 20 or 30 billion euros are astronomical amounts. This is unacceptable! Every year, EUR 30 billion is not included in public funds in Belgium. It is mainly the workers who have to bleed to compensate for this EUR 30 billion, either by additional taxes or by the disappearance of public services or the end of their free supply. The main beneficiaries of this tax fraud are the largest fortunes. I refer in particular to the work of Gabriel Zucman, who has shown, by taking as a sample the Scandinavian countries which have a heritage structure quite similar to that of our country, that the very rich who belong to the 0.01 per cent, that is, the percentage of the richest of the population, are deceiving an average amount which is 26 000 times higher than the possible small fraud which would be caused by a person belonging to the 50 per cent poorest of the population. This is actually the product of two elements, because Gabriel Zucman shows that from a certain level of fortune, the probability of having an account on a tax haven is 70%. There is, on the one hand, the percentage of people who fraud is much larger and, on the other hand, the amounts involved are much larger. So if we multiply each other, that explains this huge lag in average amounts of fraud: 26,000 times more for a very rich person compared to a person who is one of the least wealthy 50% of the population. As colleagues have said, this bill contains two elements in relation to the fight against fraud. First of all, there is a part that makes it more stringent for the supervisory authorities – National Bank or FSMA, i.e. the former banking commission – the obligation to denounce specific mechanisms to the judicial authorities. The other part includes adaptations to the maintenance of the UBO register. Remember that the UBO register is not at all an initiative of the Belgian government. It follows from European directives. Unfortunately, often when we adopt anti-fraud measures in our country, this results from European initiatives and not from government initiatives. That is a fact that we can make. We support this project, because every step taken against tax evasion must be supported. However, we do not consider it sufficient in the fight against major tax fraud. This would require much more ambitious plans than this bill. Moreover, we are still waiting for this famous anti-fraud plan which one day must produce the Minister of Finance, who is also responsible for coordinating the fight against fraud – a title that was forgotten when the government team was formed. It is his mission: to agree with his concerned colleagues in the government to develop an ambitious plan against tax evasion. We are still waiting for this plan! This is all the more damaging as the government announced very ambitious fiscal returns. We discussed it again in the debates on budgetary adjustment. The amounts promised are very high, but the measures do not follow. We are therefore wondering how, in their absence, to bring the money in this year. If we really want to take this ambitious fight against major tax fraud, many measures must be adopted, including those resulting from the recommendations of the Panama Papers Commission and then all those – the most ambitious ones – who, at the time of this committee where I sat, were defeated by the right. Perhaps we should go beyond those recommendations. Among the necessary provisions, I will pin three strands that I believe are essential to a genuine fight against tax fraud. First of all, it is important to have a sufficient number of tax auditors – both in the tax administration and in the judiciary. Indeed, we can be equipped with the best laws in the world, for lack of personnel capable of applying them, they are of no use. In this respect, unfortunately, we heard Minister Van Peteghem, when he took office, indicate that he was defending as thin a CPS as possible. In other words, it wants to fight tax fraud by reducing the teams that fight it – which is somewhat paradoxical. The second essential element in the effective fight against tax fraud is the end of bank secrecy. Unfortunately, bank secrecy remains a Belgian specificity. This government, no more than the others, wants to put an end to it. He's obviously holding on to it. Of the amounts of the tax regularisation of the DLU 1 to 3, 50 billion black capital are on the Belgian bank accounts. It is only the money that flows from regularization operations. Of course, there's everything else. It's huge! But this government does not want to fight against it. Finally, the third element that I believe is essential in order to combat tax fraud effectively is a fierce fight against tax havens. This begins by properly defining the list of tax havens. However, when you take the lists of tax havens, whether they are listed in Belgian legislation, European lists or OECD lists, it is clear that the most formidable tax havens on the planet are not there. Every time I question the Minister of Finance, he refuses to do something about it. In a word, Mr Finance Minister: in the fight against major tax fraud, we support this project, but it is time to wake up and present a real ambitious plan against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the bill before us today is to strengthen, precisely Mr Van Hees, the fight against tax evasion in our country. Of course, we are once again in agreement with regard to the denunciation of specific tax mechanisms by the supervisory authorities in the banking and financial fields. This bill therefore endorses a number of recommendations that have been made by the Special Commission on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers, as well as by the parliamentary commission of inquiry to investigate the causes of the bankruptcy of Optima Bank. The government has even gone further, it must be stressed. He decided to take the lead on the issues raised during the hearings related to the FinCEN file case. The Reform Movement wishes to reiterate here its radical support for the fight against tax fraud. In a just and solid society, everyone must contribute according to their ability to contribute and no one is above the law. The legislative arsenal has grown considerably in recent years and, to some extent, the MR has never changed its line in this regard. The Reform Movement also wishes to recall the difference between tax fraud, which is a violation of the tax law, and the choice of the least-imposed route that some of our fellow citizens can take – because it is allowed –. These are principles of law and these principles of law must be applied. It's not about morals. The law is not intended to be moral; it lays down limits that must be respected, whether moral or amoral. Most of the time, however, I recognize you this: the law is based on a set of societal recitals that are related to morality. In this case, the least-imposed route is permitted by law; we do not have to repeat it and we do not intend to do so. It is therefore up to us, as legislators, to define these limits and to define the behaviour that should be considered possible and those that should be considered reprehensible, in other words, to be condemned. That is why the MR is looking forward, Minister, to the next tax reform that is provided for in the government agreement and that you are going to implement. It is essential for us, I say in a simple way, to simplify our system. This is the clearest, most direct element for a fairer tax system to which all our citizens will be able to adhere. But we go astray with these general considerations of the bill that is before us today, I apologise. This project was the result of a rich debate in the Finance and Budget Committee – attests to the two readings that accompanied it. It seems important today to highlight the work done by parliamentarians and the government in order to listen to the various professional sectors – which we call between us the "professions of the figure" – especially on the modalities introduced by the UBO registry bill. This register must be up-to-date and accurate. It is absolutely normal and absolutely unavoidable that any differences between a factual situation and the data recorded therein should be reported. No one's contesting it. The anonymity of the person who made such a report is now guaranteed, after the work we have done and listening very attentively to the sectors we have made, and this anonymity protects the integrity of these professionals of the number. The Committee on Finance and the Budget will remain very attentive – as I said and repeated in committee, and I repeat again here – to the implementation of the law and its monitoring of the balance between the social importance of strengthening the obligation to declare and the importance of protecting anonymity for the professionals of the figure, in order precisely to ensure their integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u126	I'd like to respond to our committee chair. If I have heard correctly, it must be the taxpayer's right to choose the least taxed road. I don't know if you've read the finance policy letters. I read them very well. On page 29 it says: "The new tax system must be designed in such a way as to minimise or discourage the possibility of optimization in order to ensure the correct application of the tax." This means that, for a long time, taxation in this country was based on the principle that the taxpayer could choose, until recently and for that government, for the least taxed way, provided that all the legal effects of that choice are respected. Now, with this passage in the finance policy letters, that right is being deleted. Mrs Marghem, my question is clear. Have you read the policy letter and are you here representing the government's position? I'd like to see that cleared up. Is the choice of the least taxed road still an option in Belgium or not? Is it what you are saying here today in plenary, or is it what the policy letters say? Will the policy letter be amended here in plenary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u127	I haven't read this letter yet. Mr Vermeersch, I think we should wait for the fiscal reform. In a few days, next Wednesday, you can address questions to the Minister of Finance. A few more nights' sleep and you can ask the Minister a few questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u128	I thank you as chairman of our committee for the answer. It's a little funny, but the first part wasn't. You say that as a majority member you have not read the policy letter from the Minister of Finance. Perhaps the Minister should clarify, he is here in the Chamber. He may need to confirm whether the choice of the least taxed road is still a possibility in Belgium or not, whether this is a possibility for this government or not. The question is clear, I do not know whether the answer should come from the Minister or from Mrs Marghem. Mrs Marghem says that the least burdened road must remain an option, but your policy letter, Minister, clearly says something else. Please clarify this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u129	Madam President, I can only endorse Mr Marghem's fine summary, which I think is well formulated. I would add that fraud is not only the non-respect of the legal rules, it is also a distortion of competition. In a healthy economic environment, healthy, honest companies have every interest in the correct and fair fight against fraud; they are even asking for it. This legislation does indeed create a tightening up, and that is a good thing. However, we must be careful not to end up in a paper mill where we lose sight of those who do not commit fraud and those who fall outside all circuits. I come to the comments made by several colleagues. A healthy, simple, clear tax system, which I hope the Minister will work on, avoids misunderstandings, avoids unnecessary optimisations and promotes honesty among all parties. Colleagues have referred to the comments made by the ITAA. I didn't answer thousands of e-mails, but I contacted them at a very early stage. I am pleased that I, together with colleagues and in agreement with the cabinet, have tabled a number of amendments, which have also been adopted and which to a large extent respond to their concerns. They've formulated more. I hope, Mr Vermeersch, that the thousands of e-mails you have answered do not come from a thousand members who actually work for the mafia and now fear for their lives. I also hope that many accountants will monitor their customers' intake more closely in the future, because this is only about a reporting obligation where confidentiality mechanisms are still in place. We have also agreed that we will follow very closely whether this very far-reaching concern is a reason for further changes. Our impression was that this is not necessary at the moment. We can go very far in this, but we must not overload the mechanisms either. For the rest, the great challenge is to have sound, simple, clear legislation, which may also ensure that we need accountants and less fiscalists, which will enhance the efficiency and robustness of our companies, but also the focus of results. We shall approve the draft with the amendments that have been adopted. We will also continue to be vigilant for the follow-up and dialogue with the professional association. I am pleased that the Minister is committed to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u130	Madam President, Mr Leysen, I would like to ask you two questions. I also asked your colleague from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance the first question. Do we understand that you believe that the text before you is right and that you fully approve it? Do you also de facto suggest that with all the hundreds of e-mails we receive, you will do nothing now? Are you saying that you will not support the amendment tabled by the professional sector? Is that the attitude of the Open Vld, which is to put aside the concerns of those concerned, that they should, on the one hand, do public service and, on the other hand, fear their physical integrity? Is it the attitude and conviction of the Open Vld that these concerns are simply pushed aside? The second question is addressed to Mr Leysen and the Minister. In his speech, Mr Leysen stated that there had been consultations with the cabinet and with the sector and that I have made very precise agreements on follow-up. Apparently, practical arrangements were made for a very precise follow-up. I assume that the information, especially when making such agreements, will be shared with the entire Parliament. Mr Leysen, but, above all, Minister, what agreements have been reached? How will the succession happen? When will this be linked back to Parliament? Who's gonna be involved? In what way will it begin? Within what exact timing is she seen? According to Mr Leysen, the agreements are very precise. I therefore expect a very precise answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u131	Madam President, I would like to respond very briefly, because I thought Mr Leysen was being rather laughing, including the reference to the mafia. Mr Leysen, we take seriously the objections of the profession concerned and we differ from you in that regard. You also say you think that this government may require fewer tax accountants and tax advisors. With that statement, you are very far from reality on the ground, as there is just a huge shortage of accountants and tax advisors today. The profession of accountant is today in the top ten of the VDAB for the first time as a bottleneck profession. I hope that you will descend to reality and perhaps try to answer those hundreds of e-mails, because then the real concerns of that profession will reach you. If we are to adopt legislation here as a Member of this House, it is important to listen to what lives on the ground and to see how we, as Members of this House, can respond to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u132	Madam President, we are reliving the same debate as in committee! I have listened to what has been asked by certain sectors of the number professions. As a sentence from Stravinsky's work says: "We can't have everything, it's defended". So they can't have everything they ask for. We have tried to move as far as possible within the general framework of the law to give them the necessary comfort to carry out their tasks in the general interest. We also said that we would monitor the situation and return later, if the path we have chosen in a democratic way is not good or is not sufficient. That's what was said.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u133	Mrs Marghem has already said it, but I will repeat it again. We took the concerns into account very early, including in individual discussions. Whether 10 or 100 e-mails come in, our message is always that we have heard the concerns and that we will take maximum account of them. It is also our job in Parliament to see how far we can go. If there were any further questions, we would follow them openly and probably discuss them together. I'm counting on the Minister to do the same. The answer to the first question is therefore that we will adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u134	Mr Leysen, I always find it strange when words are spoken in Parliament, which are then not made hard. In your statement, you said that there were very precise agreements on the follow-up. If these are very precise agreements, I expect them to be very precise, and so they are about timing, who will be seen, how will that happen, how will that be dealt with, what is the role of the cabinet, what is the role of Parliament, what is the role of the professional sector, etc. I would have liked to have an answer to that. You seem to have access to that information, but you do not wish to share it with Parliament. I must say that I find it very special that there is no transparency on such an important dossier, on which there is a great deal of concern in the field. Another point, of course, is that you did not make those appointments, that no very precise agreements were made and that you have just made some tough statements in your speech. I find that really inappropriate, Mr Leysen. In a dossier where there is concern, we as policy makers can, because we are also, quite simply, transparent, correct, sober, with a certain fashion, to quote Mr Piedboeuf's words in committee this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u135	Mr Loones, I know the sector very well. Accountants will always be needed. The clearer and simpler the accounting and tax legislation, the more efficient they can work, so I would like to see this sector thrive, but not in a mess of legislation and taxation that gives everyone a headache. Once again, I hope that we will be able to take steps in the next few years. I'm going to go into the word "precise." I said we'd stay in touch, we'd keep the line open and we'd follow the case. What more do you want, beyond your need to speak a little longer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u136	Thank you, Mr Leysen, for your clarification. The sector also knows that no precise agreements have been reached. You say there is an open line, but I hope the Minister always has it with the professional federations. I had hoped for something more, given the concerns on the ground. However, I look forward to the Minister's reply. He may be able to give some further details on how he plans to address the concerns and give a listening ear to the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, while my group fully supports the objectives of this bill, unfortunately it is not yet the vast plan to combat the long-awaited tax evasion. Since the establishment of the Vivaldi government, nine months have already passed. I would like to remind you, if necessary, that this bill materializes measures proposed in 2008, almost thirteen years ago. However, I repeat the Vivaldi government's agreement: "The fight against fraud will continue unabated because fraud undermines the fairness of the system. An action plan against tax evasion will be put in place. The fight against tax fraud will continue unabated." I have no doubt that there is no shortage of work and that the health and economic circumstances do not make the mission easy. However, tax fairness fully justifies that Belgium should draw up as soon as possible a plan to combat tax fraud, without waiting for the end of the crisis. The annual report of the Financial Information Processing Unit (CTIF), published on 15 May, indicated that the coronavirus crisis had further increased the share of the underground economy. In 2020, CTIF reported suspicious transactions to the court for a total amount of €1.64 billion. This amount was only $1.15 billion in 2019, an increase of 42% in one year. It is easy to understand that the urgency is more urgent than ever for a plan to combat tax fraud to be put in place quickly. Without going into the details and technicality of the project, I stop at one of the two measures devoted to the project: the obligation for all entities subject to the UBO file, namely banks, credit agencies but also accounting experts, tax advisers, notaries, judicial officers, lawyers, etc., to denounce the particular mechanisms that contribute to fraudulent transactions. This has already caused a lot of ink and saliva to flow here. Of course, we support the establishment of tools to enable the tax administration to fully carry out its monitoring and verification tasks for taxable persons, but many of us have received messages of concern from the professionals of the figure fearing reprisals in case of denunciation. Of course, some adjustments have been made within the framework of the project. An anonymization is planned to prevent criminals from going back to professionals. We fear, however, that it will not be sufficient and will not prevent many unscrupulous people from knowing the identity of the person denouncing a fraudulent tax practice. In our view, it will therefore be necessary to be very careful and to carry out a constant monitoring of the measure as soon as it comes into force and, if necessary, to modify it in order to avoid the targeting of the professionals in the figure. Our group will not fail to question the minister regularly in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your speeches. It was a somewhat predictable debate, with certain points already discussed in committee. Mr Loones, at the beginning of your speech you referred to the comments we received from the Legal Service. The legal services of the National Bank and the FSMA have done their utmost to thoroughly analyse these comments. They have come to the conclusion that it was better not to introduce a number of things and to look at them further if there were any doubts about them. I made this very clear in committee. It is important that a very thorough analysis has been made. We have, of course, also had another debate here and, of course, I understand very much your concerns and those of the professional organisation. ITAA has sent you all a lot of e-mails, but we have been consulting with them for a long time, from the start of this draft law. This was not just about this bill but also about many other matters. So there was intense consultation from the beginning. This included, for example, the reporting periods and the FAQs to be drawn up on the UBO register. So there has been a lot of contact with the cabinet. They were indeed very concerned about this point, but there was also a certain disagreement about the way in which the directive had to be transposed. A disagreement on one point, on which I will return in a moment, does not mean the end of our discussion. If I may answer the question you asked Mr Leysen, I can say that we will continue to discuss it after that disagreement. We will, of course, take their comments into account. Now I come to the heart of the matter, an interesting aspect. From the outset, they have translated their concerns into a question of anonymity. They believe that their own security is being compromised. You referred to this by talking about the physical dangers of their job. It depends on the anonymity of the declarations they have to make. Mr Loones, your speech on this was particularly interesting, because you said that this was well arranged by the CFI. That's right. By the way, that's a criminal procedure. You say that it is all right with the CFI and that you can agree to that. Well, let us compare that with what we are doing today for an administrative procedure with a registration with the UBO register. We apply the same anonymity rules as with the CFI to the UBO register. The anonymity applicable to the CFI, even the so-called ban on tipping off, is also applied to the UBO register. They're asking for anonymity. What applies today to the CFI, we apply in the same way to the UBO register. Their anonymity will therefore be effectively guaranteed. We cannot therefore accept the amendment that they have proposed to you and which you have tabled, just because the European framework, the European directive, requires that the information kept in the UBO register should be adequate, accurate and up-to-date. Member States will need to establish a mechanism to correct discrepancies in time and, if necessary, to include a specific entry in the Central Register. In other words, with this bill, and I repeat myself, the same anonymity as in the CFI procedure applies. We are also doing this with respect for the directive, which the proposed amendment does not. One of the reasons used in your amendment is that the confidentiality guarantees offered by the CFI do not apply to the administration of finance. That's not right. This cannot be added, just because there is an equal guarantee in both the CFI procedure and the UBO registry procedure. Several concerns have been raised, such as the cost of the call. It's gone. That is why the second reading has been good. We also strengthened anonymity with that second reading. In this way we have really taken into account the concerns of this profession. I would also like to stress that this applies not only to the professions of numbers, to the auditors and to the accountants. This applies to any obliged entity. That includes, for example, the notaries. We have received no comments from all those other groups, which convinces me that with the rules we are introducing today, there are sufficient guarantees to ensure that anonymity is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u139	My reply will be brief, Minister, because I do not want to reopen the debate. First of all, it is good that you express concerns about legal precision. I believe that this is an important starting point, particularly in your field, taxation and finance. A comma can make a world of difference, let alone a wrong word or a wrong interpretation. It is good that you want to take that into account. I would just like to call on you to do it to the full. You've gone before statesmen who were the plumbers of politics. I said that in committee too. Some people take that as a compliment. It is. But there is also another connotation on a plumber, namely the one who fixes some things here and there. I hope that's not your ambition. You have clearly stated everywhere that this is not the case. On the contrary, you want to do a thorough job. Secondly, I also welcome your explicit confirmation that you already have an open line with the sector federations and that you keep them open. I think that's important. I very much appreciate your explicit commitment to this. In Mr Leysen's words, whether there are any precise agreements? Apparently not. But I think that we in the committee should discuss how we can set up a route. When do you think it would be useful to come back to the committee on this matter? How can we guide that? I understand that we will have an exchange of views next Wednesday. That's a nice initiative of yours. It may be a suggestion to include these issues there too. More fundamentally, the question arises when anonymity and therefore protection are guaranteed, from when is it effectively present and at what point is it apparently present but is it rather theoretical? This is, of course, the subject of the whole debate. According to your reading, the majority says that anonymity is now in order through the amendments. But in the field, this is more like a kind of theoretical anonymity. I'm declaring myself. According to Mr Van der Donkt, who is a greater expert, there is indeed a difference in procedure between a notification to the UBO register and a notification to the CFI. The UBO adaptation is more of a dialogue logic. The Treasury then conducts further investigations and therefore contacts with the persons concerned, so that those who hide behind the company may start to suspect that it was their accountant, who happened to have been with them, who made the report. They could then add 1 plus 1 and suspect their accountant to have also reported to the CFI Anti-Washing Registry, among others. That's the point. There is indeed a difference in procedure, which means that there is a much faster contact and the parties concerned are aware of it and can draw conclusions from it. What I don't understand is why. Our aim is to investigate suspected fraud, to tackle fraudsters, to stop fraud and to see fraudsters prosecuted. The CFI register has just been set up to carry out checks in this area. That is the absolute priority. If we also make it compulsory to report to the UBO register, we will ensure that people are woken up, maybe sleeping dogs are woken up, then we will make our own criminal proceedings more difficult. I hope we absolutely do not want that. There is a reason why there is confidentiality in criminal proceedings: that is in order to be able to make a number of investigations. What we are in danger of doing here is making fraudsters more vigilant, which might make them more difficult to investigate. I want to end with a positive note. Thank you, Minister, for your commitment to be and remain vigilant, including for the concerns in the sector. We will be happy to accept that commitment with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u140	Mr President, we have now understood that the majority will not support our first option, the amendment proposed by the sector. We regret that. The second option is not to maintain a non-binding commitment, but to concreteise it, as Mr Leysen stressed. I suggest that through our contacts with the sector we keep our eyes and ears open and that the government has the openness to take immediate action in the event of problems in the field. We can ask the government for this commitment. I would also point out that an important question was raised in the debate. Mrs Marghem put forward the principle of the least burdened road and praised it, while you seem to put that principle aside in your policy letters. That is evident from the quote I mentioned. Can you clarify that, Minister? I think this is a fundamental political debate: does the principle of choice remain in place for the government to be left behind?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u141	I note the positive note with which Mr Loones has completed his speech and the positive note contained in the first part of Mr Vermeersch's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u142	Mr Vermeersch, I would just like to stress that the two principles are not mutually exclusive in the text. I would like to hear your comments and views on this in the discussion next week in the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u143	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u144	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1900/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1900/7) The bill has 51 articles. The draft law contains 51 articles. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u145	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment retained, the article retained and the whole will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u146	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Els Van Hoof, Malik Ben Accour, Michel De Maegd, Samuel Cogolati, Marianne Verhaert, Vicky Reynaert, Wouter De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u147	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1964/5) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1964/5) The title in French was changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the return of Armenian prisoners of war and civilian prisoners detained by Azerbaijan following the declaration of a ceasefire of 9 November 2020". Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "proposal for a resolution on the return of Armenian prisoners of war and civilian prisoners detained by Azerbaijan following the declaration of a ceasefire of 9 November 2020". The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur is our colleague Georges Dallemagne. I therefore do not see him as referring to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Van Hoof for presenting this motion for a resolution which we are likely to adopt in the near future. The problem she raises is, of course, serious, that of prisoners of war, who have the right to return after being imprisoned during the war that took place in November 2020. The Azeri believe that they can take advantage of the opportunity to become the undisputed winner of the conflict. President Aliyev recently, on 12 May of this year, noted that the conflict was settled. The parties and countries that have been involved in this matter will no longer interfere with their business. Non-interference in domestic affairs is, of course, important as a general international principle. That is, of course, a questionable starting point here because we do not have a definition of what would be internal matters, and that is just the heart of the conflict. This resolution calls for compliance with the ceasefire agreement and, therefore, the return of all prisoners of war and, of course, proper treatment in accordance with the standards in force. [[Then we have no choice but to join in.]] It is regrettable, however, that many speeches, including those from which I have just quoted, show that Azerbaijan does not seem to be in a mode of reconciliation. The treatment of the Armenian population of Artsakh and also attempts to wipe out identity and heritage make reconciliation in the short term, perhaps even in the long term, very difficult or impossible. The activities of the Azeri army on Armenian soil certainly give cause for concern. We therefore support the resolution, which has been drafted in very cautious terms. The fact that self-determination is included in terminology sounds like music to us. However, I regret once again that our amendments have been voted down. The aim of these amendments was to put to the Republic of Artsakh, I would almost dare say: whether what is left of them is to offer some prospect of international recognition and at least of the recognition of its existence. It is perhaps logical that we should not be taking the full path of diplomatic recognition at the moment, but we would have liked to have seen more explicit in the resolution before us. The amendments were voted down and rejected by a majority, which I regret. We'd have preferred it different. However, that is no reason for us to turn against the resolution as such. We shall therefore vote for them in the near future, albeit with the thought I gave earlier. It doesn't last much more than plastering a wound, because we can't wipe out what happened. However, I really hope that Armenian prisoners of war will be treated as prisoners of war at least in accordance with the current rules of international law and, of course, have the right to return to their families and their families. That is why we shall vote in favour of the resolution before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u149	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the cease-fire of 9 November 2020 and after a short war which nevertheless killed 6,000 people, several dozen detainees are still in the hands of Azerbaijan, which refuses to release them. According to Human Rights Watch, Azerbaijani forces severely ill-treated several Armenian soldiers captured during the conflict in Karabakh. Prisoners of war were reportedly subjected to serious physical abuse and humiliation in incidents that have been filmed and broadcast on social media since October. The representative of the interests of Armenian captives and prisoners of war appealed to the European Court of Human Rights for acts of torture and murder of prisoners of war. The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Ms. Michelle Bachelet, also expressed her deep concern about this issue in the aftermath of the ceasefire. On 1 February, independent United Nations experts called for the speedy release of prisoners of war and other captives and the return of bodies to their families. Despite the ceasefire signed in November 2020, tensions between the Baku regime and Armenia continue to exist. There have also been some incidents at the borders in recent days. According to the Armenian army, six of its soldiers carrying out engineering work in a district close to the border with Azerbaijan were reportedly captured no later than this Thursday morning. The fear of further burning is a concern for the international community. The Karabakh conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia has been destabilizing the whole Caucasus for more than 30 years. We will support with great conviction the text of our colleague Van Hoof, which aims to support the initiatives of Belgium and international institutions to achieve a ceasefire and a lasting resolution of the conflict. This decision was already adopted by our House in December 2020. The Minsk Group of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) in charge of negotiations for a peaceful resolution of the conflict and the European Union must use their full authority to secure the release of Armenian prisoners of war, ensure – what we believe is a priority – that this humanitarian clause of the ceasefire is respected and continue to work towards a lasting solution to this complicated and lasting conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the six-week war last year around Nagorno-Karabakh, some 6,000 people were killed. In the end, Armenia was forced to give large parts of its territory to Azerbaijan. The military conflict seems frozen for the time being, except for some sporadic aggression from the Azarian angle. However, we all know that it is a matter of time before the conflict will flare up again, especially after the repeated provocations of the President of Azerbaijan. I refer, among other things, to the threat of the military destruction of the Armenians and the shameful military parade held in Baku on 10 December to celebrate the joint victory of Turkey and Azerbaijan over the Armenian people of Nagorno-Karabakh. There was also a visit by the Azerbaijani president to an exhibition with booty helmets, uniforms and the like of deceased Armenian soldiers. The president, dressed in military uniform, apparently felt it necessary to publicly humiliate Armenian war victims, missing persons and prisoners of war, a gross violation of the rights and dignity of the deceased soldiers and their family members. It is understandable that the anger in Armenia is and remains great. Not only did Azerbaijan destroy cultural heritage and churches during the conflict and damaged cemeteries, it also used cluster munitions and chemical weapons against civilian targets. It is also an observation that Azerbaijan continues to provoke even during the current ceasefire. Azerbaijan continues to pursue its occupation policy, Azerbaijan continues to violate human rights with the abuse and torture of Armenian prisoners and Azerbaijan does not comply with the agreements on the release of Armenian prisoners. Today I read in the foreign press that the Azerbaijani troops have captured six Armenian soldiers at the border, even on Armenian territory. It is yet another incident that we can add to the long list of violations. This resolution therefore calls for urgent action and pressure on Azerbaijan to achieve the immediate and unconditional release of Armenian prisoners. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to Mr De Roover's amendments, tabled in committee, but unfortunately not in plenary. Mr De Roover, at least you would have had our support. In view of the parliamentary friendship groups already in existence with our Länder and the fact that the Republic of Artsakh already has two representative offices in the EU, particularly in Berlin and Paris, Belgium cannot, in our view, lag behind the establishment of diplomatic relations, given the international nature of Brussels which is so often referred to and the fact that Belgium is all too happy to take up the role of a pioneer. We also support the amendment to grant diplomatic privileges to the representation of the Republic of Artsakh in Brussels, similar to those enjoyed by representations of other non-approved states in the country. It is therefore a missed chance that these amendments were not included in the proposal. The unclear international status of the Rartsakh, the lack of recognition of its independent status and the reluctance of the international community will continue to ensure that Azerbaijan, with or without the help of outsiders, continues to pursue its policy of aggression. You know our position on this: there are sufficient historical reasons and convincing international legal arguments for the Republic of Artsakh to regard them as an independent state. In addition to the protection of the civilian population affected and the Armenian heritage, the recognition of a sovereign state for the Armenians in Artsakh, the Armenians in the diaspora, would be of enormous value, showing our sincere solidarity as an ally in a just struggle. Of course, our group supports Mrs Van Hoof's proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 17 December this House voted almost unanimously on the resolution to support the initiatives of Belgium and international institutions to achieve a ceasefire and a lasting resolution to the Nagorny Karabakh conflict. Among the many demands there, the fate of prisoners of war was mentioned. In particular, the Government was called upon to invite the international community to send international observers without delay to gather evidence of war crimes (tortures, executions of prisoners) perpetrated during the conflict. It was also called upon to support international initiatives aimed at the mutual exchange of prisoners and remains in accordance with the Geneva Conventions and to condemn the execution of prisoners of war in the strongest terms and to ensure that such crimes were prosecuted and punished. Since then, unfortunately, the situation has changed little with regard to their fate. We all remember the atrocious and unbearable images that had come to us at the time, torture, summary executions and even decapitations against the camera of Armenian soldiers by mercenaries embezzled by Azerbaijan. Today, and despite what had been agreed upon in the ceasefire agreement concluded on 9 November, several dozen detainees are still in the hands of Azerbaijan, which refuses to release them as "terrorists". They are still, according to several reports, tortured, humiliated at the time of our discussion. In Baku, ladies and gentlemen, an exhibition is organized which proudly presents the helmets of the Armenian soldiers killed – an exhibition visited by President Alyev himself. That is the reality of the situation on the spot! How many are there? We don't know that. I was telling you about several dozen. Last March, the European Court of Human Rights reported that Azerbaijan was unable to provide timely information about 188 Armenians who would be prisoners of war. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will have understood this: every day we see new inhuman treatment of these people. It is therefore urgent that the international community mobilize to act seriously. That is why our resolution is of paramount importance. This type of behaviour is never sufficiently condemned. Let us repeat it loud and clear: we condemn, in the strongest terms, the numerous accounts of Azerbaijan's abuse of Armenian captives. We urge the Azeri authorities to investigate all these cases and bring those responsible to justice. We call on them to release without delay all remaining Armenian prisoners. In this resolution, we call on the government to take all measures to support this immediate release. It's important. We also ask him to use our good relations to keep the issue at the forefront of the bilateral agenda with the Azerbaijani side. Furthermore, it is imperative to work closely with relevant international institutions to ensure that Azerbaijan complies with its obligations so that the Red Cross can increase the number of visits to detainees and that the norms of international humanitarian law are respected. We are also, of course, insisting that the European Union should play its part in this matter. Finally, you have certainly been aware of the latest developments in the situation with this Azeri incursion into the heart of Armenian territory despite the ceasefire agreement and which raises fears of a willingness to take control of certain areas. There was also the capture yesterday of six Armenians in Armenian territory by the Azeri. Because we are committed to respect for international law and the preservation of the territorial integrity of States, we have taken this into account in our resolution. First of all, we call on the Government to plead with the Azerbaijani authorities to withdraw their troops from Armenian territory, to respect the ceasefire and to respect the territorial integrity of Armenia. Secondly, we ask him to urge both sides to define common borders, if necessary with the help of international observers. For territorial integrity to be respected, there must be a clear, secure border, recognized by all, on the maps as well as on the ground. We need a border that is not just a barrier but a place of passage and contact. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unfortunate that the latest events force us once again to have to adopt a resolution on the situation in Nagorny Karabakh, but, as you have seen, we have no choice. We cannot remain silent in the face of what is happening on the spot. We can no longer wait to position ourselves in the face of these acts. Every day counts. We must note that these recent incidents, the provocations of Baku, the non-compliance with the ceasefire, the political declarations martial and the failure to respect the conditions surrounding the ceasefire do not contribute to a calming of relations between Armenia and Azerbaijan, which is not in the nature, as we must say, of relations between the two countries. We must remain vigilant in this regard. This war, which has not ended since 1994, is a constant source of tension. These tensions should be resolved through diplomatic channels, but unfortunately it is the cannons and provocative statements that speed up the debates. What is the soothing role played by the deployment of Russian peacekeepers? What are the diplomatic achievements of the work of the Minsk Group? Can Armenia have confidence in its neighbour, despite Moscow's theoretical support? Do the Armenian people have the right to live in peace and security, even in territories adjacent to the border with Azerbaijan? Can confidence- and security-building measures be implemented to lower the level of alert of military forces on both sides, lower the level of military spending in both countries and put a flat – I would like to say "one term" but without real hopes – to the level of aggressiveness between the two governments? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution unanimously voted in committee comes at a point to demonstrate to the various speakers that we are seized of this issue and that we will ask our Foreign Minister Sophie Wilmès to act so that this ceasefire, once respected, can be transformed into lasting peace. I would of course like to thank my colleague Els Van Hoof, with whom we have been able to work effectively on this text. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, I call on all of you to support this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can be brief. My group will support this motion for a resolution. Unfortunately, we witnessed yet another military episode in a conflict that has been dragging on for a long time in Nagorno-Karabakh. In anticipation of a lasting and negotiated solution to the conflict, we believe that the ceasefire agreement concluded by both parties should be respected, not least by Azerbaijan, which should immediately release the Armenian prisoners of war so that they can return to their country and their families. That is why we fully support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u153	Mr President, Mr Van Hoof, it has been several months since a ceasefire was signed between Azerbaijan and Armenia in the context of the conflict between the two sides and Nagorny Karabakh. However, human rights and the rules of international humanitarian law remain under threat. Already before the ceasefire was signed, there were hundreds of deaths and thousands of internally displaced persons, even though they were deemed to be contrary to the Fourth Geneva Convention. Let us not speak, although they have already been mentioned, of the multiple violations of the rights of prisoners of war and of the simple right to life, attributable to both the Azerbaijani armies and the Armenian armies. By reading Amnesty International reports, we read about the commission of horrific mutilation and inhuman and degrading treatment on all sides. Although a ceasefire was to ease tensions between the parties, several dozen military and civilian prisoners were still held, both by Armenia and Azerbaijan. In this regard, the Human Rights Watch report is worrying. He referred to serious violations of the rights of prisoners guaranteed in the Geneva Convention. Let us recall that the conflict is still unresolved and the violation of Azerbaijan's commitments in the ceasefire agreement makes the prospects for lasting peace in the region sadly sad. It is with this in mind that Mrs Van Hoof's motion for a resolution is not only relevant, but necessary, to demand that the authorities comply with the international commitments made in the ceasefire agreement of 9 November 2020. This motion for a resolution encourages the parties to the liberation by Azerbaijan of the remaining Armenian captives, in complete safety. However, it seems to me important to recall that the release of prisoners of war and civilians is only a first step towards a more peaceful situation and lasting peace between Armenia and Azerbaijan. We therefore particularly welcome the Government's request to support efforts to achieve a peaceful and lasting political settlement of the conflict through the OSCE Minsk Group, including on the final status of Nagorny Karabakh. Indeed, resolving the conflict in Nagorny Karabakh is a thorny question of the final status of Nagorny Karabakh and the question of its right to self-determination under the rules of international law. However, the priority remains respect for the rules of international humanitarian law and human rights in the region. We must therefore ensure that the remaining Armenian prisoners will be released as soon as possible and return safely to their territory. I too am pleased that this resolution has been voted unanimously in committee. It is essential to have a Parliament that defends high and strong values and respect for human rights. My group, like the others, will therefore enthusiastically support this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u154	In all logical terms, I give the floor to Mrs Van Hoof, the initiator of this resolution, which has indeed received unanimity. I thank her for her initiative and for the way in which she directs the work of the Committee on External Relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank colleagues for their support. Today we are indeed sending a strong signal in the field of human rights. This is not just a resolution for the paper can. I know this is being followed with interest in Armenia. The Armenian Embassy has also contacted us on a regular basis to ensure that this resolution is adopted. They need all the support they can get. I believe that Belgium is one of the pioneers in this process, ensuring that human rights are no longer violated and that important conventions must be respected. This is an important humanitarian issue in the aftermath of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. Azerbaijan is failing to comply with all international rules of law. We have already talked a few times about the important Geneva Convention, which clearly states that when a ceasefire takes place, prisoners of war must be released and repatriated, whether they are military or civilian.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u156	The trilateral agreement concluded in November 2020 also made it clear that not only prisoners of war, but also hostages, should be exchanged. Azerbaijan calls them terrorists now. Punishment, but it is. It is quite clear in the agreement that they must be released and that all material surpluses must be exchanged. Armenia has consciously fulfilled this obligation. It is therefore appalling that there are still about 200 prisoners in Azerbaijan. We don't know the exact figures. The provocations continue. That's the punishment of the whole story. They are called terrorists and were imprisoned after the ceasefire entered. Also today, 6 people have been captured. There are still 200 Azerbaijani on Armenian territory and they have just grabbed 6 people and transferred them to Azerbaijan. The European Court of Human Rights is also dealing with this issue. It has asked Azerbaijan to provide information on the detainees. It has asked to give the whereabouts, so that the families at least know that the prisoners are in good health. There was no listening to that either. Human Rights Watch has also already charged the prisoners with being abused, tortured and given electroshocks. Photos and videos are then taken of them, as is happening in these times, which the families face. It is a real provocation to deal with prisoners of war in this way. The provocations also continue in a very plastic way. A trophy park was set up last April in Baku, where Armenian prisoners of war were depicted as a kind of mannequin display and where children and passers-by were shown how these people were humiliated. They want to stir up national pride in the hood of victims who are being humiliated. We really should not let that pass. Meanwhile, again two prisoners have died in the Azerbaijani detention centers. We are also continuing with the failure to comply with the ceasefire and the agreement. There is a serious violation of Armenia's territorial integrity, which is why the agreement is being violated again. Here too, Parliament must dare to draw a red line and put pressure on Azerbaijan to release Armenian prisoners of war and other detainees, but also to comply with the entire November 2020 agreement. The European Union preceded us last week. A resolution was also adopted in the European Parliament asking for the same thing as we are asking for today. However, it is important that we give this signal separately to fight for the unconditional release of all Armenian prisoners, both military and civilian, who were imprisoned during and after the conflict. We are taking an important step today, but we must also continue to advocate a lasting solution to the conflict. It's still a frozen conflict, which means it can thaw at any time. What happened last year has led to further hatred and resentment. The failure to comply with the agreement means that the conflict is frozen further, but very little is needed to make the weather thaw. That is why I am pleased that the resolution is unanimously supported, that we are today expressing a strong position on this issue and that we remain consistent, whether it is about Belarus, Armenia or Azerbaijan, on the human rights side. I would specifically like to thank all the members of the Committee on External Relations for their good and rapid cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u157	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u158	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Jürgen Conings case continues to set the topical and urgent agenda. At this very moment, the security forces in this country are still putting their best foot forward to find the missing military. On behalf of my group, I would like to express my full support and respect for them. I hope that this situation can be brought to an end quickly, without any casualties. Madam Minister, yesterday you tried to answer Parliament's many questions and concerns about this unprecedented crisis in defence. You have mentioned a number of elements that have mainly cast a smokescreen over who exactly bears the final responsibility in the disappearance of Jürgen Conings. I remained hungry for a large part of it. The question of how the hell this is possible remains haunted by many heads. How is it possible that someone who is on the OCAD list and was followed by the ADIV military intelligence service could get hold of heavy military weapons and walk out of the barracks with them? A soldier who walks into a weapons depot, where he was an instructor, while he's being followed by the security forces and runs away with, among other things, four rocket launchers, does that mean that anyone can request the keys of a weapons depot to loot the gun cabinet and practice at home in the garden? That's how it seems to people. Without surveillance cameras in weapons depots, of course, much is possible. This is all nice in films by Louis de Funes or FC De Champions, but not in our Defense Department, because that is not a playground, even though it has been treated like this for decades by traditional parties like yours. Among other things, because of the structural under-financing of Defence by the traditional parties, we are now stuck with such poor security procedures. The whole incident brings out the completely reprehensible safety culture that is the result of years of neglect of the department. Secondly, it bears witness to an enormous political responsibility on your part. As Minister of Defense, you bear the ultimate responsibility for military security and compliance with the procedures, and as the CHOD, Admiral Hofman, and yourself have already indicated, mistakes have been made in the Defense Department regarding respect for rules and procedures and in the exchange of information. Who else but yourself is responsible for the lack of security of those weapons depots and also for the follow-up of soldiers on the radar of our intelligence services? You said yesterday in committee that there was indeed a problem with the flow of information with the ADIV, which was aware of the fact that Jürgen Conings was placed on that OCAD list. However, that information would never have reached the head of the ADIV, and yourself. In addition, a follow-up study of the ADIV would have been discontinued two weeks before the disappearance of Conings for another operation that was given priority. Madam Secretary, knowing nothing in the department you're in charge of is no excuse. Even if you really did not know all this, you are still politically responsible, because you should have known this, and ADIV should not have suspended the follow-up to Conings. As far as I know, our military intelligence service is under your jurisdiction, including the operation of the institution and the interaction with Defence in general. Consequently, your department should have known that an arms instructor on an OCAD list, moreover with access to heavy weapons, is not a very clever idea. You said in committee that the true facts still have to be examined and that you are still waiting for the results of the Committee I, the Committee I, which is a closed committee, although at present it does not provide any answers, although we urgently need them. That is why yesterday the committee called for hearings with the head of the OCAD, the head of the ADIV and the military summit. Suddenly the Vivaldi mill started. While everyone said during the debate that the lack of information flow was unseen, wanted to know exactly where it had gone wrong and where there was an urgent need to adjust, the Vivaldi partners, who make respect and transparency a matter of honour, tried to put everything on the long track, of course with Dad Flahaut in the lead. You've been on a tandem with him for a while, and just to be clear, he's at the wheel. Why have the hearings been postponed? All this is very similar to an unwelcome business that should be covered up, as it were, a cover-up in true PS-style. I'm coming to the counseling of Defense personnel facing PTSD, post-traumatic stress syndrome. In committee, you said that in Conings' specific case, because of medical secrecy and privacy, you cannot say anything about it, which I understand. Nevertheless, the question of the role of the unaccompanied PTSD in this matter remains on my lips, because you have not answered that question. However, it is vital that our soldiers who come back with symptoms of PTSS from a foreign mission receive the necessary treatment and support afterwards. That is the least we owe them. I will come back to your response to this whole thing, Madam Secretary. Instead of accepting your political responsibility, you are putting the whole thing almost consistently in the shoes of everything that is right-wing and Flemish. That is, of course, a well-known tactic, because someone in tight shoes is looking for a scapegoat outside of themselves. By overcompensating, you wish to appear forceful. In Parliament, you have already mentioned a breeding ground of hatred and polarisation, which you believe is created by the right. I would ask you to soften your tone, because just politicians like you cause great displeasure and frustration to the people and continue to feed them by ignoring the Flame's voice time and time again and by supporting a left-wing liberary establishment of small parties to put the two largest parties out of play. That is the real polarization and the breeding ground of hatred cultivated by the traditional parties. Madam Secretary, the measures you took in response to the incident included denying access to weapons, sensitive locations and information for eleven soldiers with allegedly extreme right-wing sympathies, followed by the ADIV. That may sound tough and decisive, but I'd like to know which gauges you're using. When do you think someone has a radical mindset and from when does that potential pose a threat to the proper functioning of the Defense Department? The military in question, as I know, I asked you, but you did not answer that question at any time, and at any time, you did not violate directives. I therefore ask you again what criteria you apply, because I do not know, but I do know that the risk of arbitrariness will be very high in this way. I would also like to ask you the following. How many soldiers have been sanctioned in recent days or have their security clearance been revoked? Are the sanctions or measures temporary? Why is the extreme right specifically highlighted in your communication? What is the ratio of Dutch-speaking and French-speaking military to the ADIV list given the particular focus in your communication on the far right? Last week, you announced your intention to act more strictly and preventively, emphasising the screening of individuals and, in particular, of recruits. How will the screening be done? What criteria will you use? Isn't this contrary to privacy law? How is that legally justified? In particular, what personnel will you do that with, given the shortage of personnel in the Defense Department? It is reported that at present only two persons are responsible for following up the ADIV list. The only thing you mentioned about this is that a recruitment plan will give Defence and ADIV more oxygen. I am very curious how you will implement that plan in concrete terms. After all, that statement also excelled in vagueness. Madam Secretary, all these questions deserve an answer. I'm looking forward to your reaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u159	Mr De Vuyst, you will have a maximum speaking time of five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u160	Madam Secretary, we have been looking for the heavily armed military, Jürgen Conings, for over a week now. With man and power, we keep looking for that man. Meanwhile, there is a new development of resources in the park De Hoge Kempen. The parquet also keeps all the slopes open. In essence, not much has changed. So we are all still at risk of becoming victims of a violent and terrorist attack. After all, the man is effectively wanted for attempted murder and forbidden possession of weapons in a terrorist context. As far as we know, there are no concrete clues yet, or there is no significant lead yet to catch the man in the end. In fact, we have not been able to identify with you any real awareness of the real scope of the problem. The more time passes and the deeper we start digging, the more we come up. It's really hallucinating. I'm putting a few things together in a small reconstruction. The intelligence services already raised the alarm in August 2020 about the Conings issue. At that time it was already requested to withdraw its authorisation because of its links with the far right. He was then subjected to disciplinary sanctions for spreading hate messages on social media and also for making death threats. The man was punished in principle at the time. He was demoted and went from military police to logistics manager, including in an ammunition depot in the Leopoldsburg barracks. So they put the cat by the milk. Last December, when you were also Minister, a psychological report on State Security showed that the man in question was a real danger. Every sane person then believes that it will be dealt with. Unfortunately, there hasn't been any interference. On 1 February, the intelligence services had even provided information that there was a possibility that he would attack a mosque. On February 17th there was another report. Then he, actually a little cynical, got an upgrade on the OCAD list from level 4 to level 3, and now he's on the list of OCAD as a potentially dangerous extremist. However, you stated in committee in April that everything in the army was under control, including the military who were known to be on the ADIV list. The icing on the cake is that two of the 28 soldiers on the ADIV list, as we heard yesterday, are employed by the military police and are in charge of monitoring two parliaments in our country, including the federal parliament, in which we are currently in. Madam Secretary, there are a lot of misfits in the file. Reality transcends all possible forms of fiction here. It is not really possible to invent such a thing in a country like ours, where the information circulates fairly quickly, especially when it comes to ordinary people. One might wonder why the Defense Department wasn't aware. Even the chief of intelligence, Mr Boucké, was unaware of the fact that the man was on the OCAD list. In the absence of an answer from the army top and from you, you must, of course, wait and see if we have consulted civil society, for example at Résistance, a part of the Belgian observatory of the far right. This indicates that the radicalisation of Jürgen Conings is not an isolated case in the armed forces. There is currently some sort of omerta on the subject. It is, of course, also the responsibility of politicians that it has come to this. Just now, Mr Boukili questioned Minister Verlinden about the extreme right-wing threat, which is indeed there. Think of paramilitary groups like Shield & Friends who train themselves and prepare for the armed struggle, the ultimate race struggle. So these dangers are real. Madam Secretary, those elements are truly disturbing. We hope and demand that the matter be thoroughly examined and that those responsible are also heard in Parliament. Once again, I will give you a list of the questions that I put to the committee yesterday. Madam Minister, how can it be that even when Jürgen Conings had been known for a long time, even when he was planning an attack last February, no concrete steps have been taken against him? How is it possible that the information was not passed on and that nothing was done with it? How come the Chief of Military Intelligence wasn't aware? Are the two radicalised military police on the list still active and in what service?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u161	Madam Chair, I would like to announce the tabling of a simple motion calling for a return to the Orders of the Day. I imagine that the services will be able to pass it on to Members of Parliament. Of course, I am asking for urgency in his favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u162	Madam President, I have not yet put forward a motion for a recommendation and a simple motion has already been announced. Madam Secretary, you have announced a number of investigations in recent days. Let us hope that these reports will bring the truth to light and that we can learn the necessary lessons from them. I would also like to call on you to present these reports to Parliament before July in order to provide the necessary clarity. In the meantime, however, we are left with a lot of questions, even after yesterday's sitting. I would like to divide my speech into two parts. The first part is about the past, in particular about what went wrong and whether it is individual or system errors. The second part is about what has happened in the last few days and about your acting as Minister. Before Jürgen Conings disappeared from the barracks with all kinds of weapons, all kinds of things went wrong. It is clear that the role and functioning of the ADIV in this dossier is very important. The person concerned entered an OCAD level 3 list in February. It is still not clear to me which department the OCAD has commissioned to investigate and strengthen the level of follow-up of that person. So I'm gonna ask you again. If it was the ADIV that ordered this to be looked at in addition, then it could have been difficult to do so without the supervisor being aware of it? You said yesterday that General Boucké didn't know anything. The Chief of the SGRS said he was not informed. You said that yesterday. I keep finding that very bizarre. Especially those colleagues who have been involved here for a long time know that the operation of ADIV is not always smooth, with the struggle between civilian personnel and the military, the distrust within the ADIV hierarchy. During the previous term of office, the Committee I carried out a whole audit, which gave a dramatic picture of the operation of ADIV, on the basis of your predecessor's remarks. A number of mandatory measures have also been introduced. Perhaps these same problems of miscommunication and mistrust are at the root of what has again gone wrong within ADIV. Is there evidently information withheld from one person or service to another because he does not trust it? This is quite remarkable and needs to be examined further. I look forward to the results of the investigations you've ordered. Madam Minister, there is still a very painful picture of a queen who apparently lives in her beautiful castle in the Lambermontstraat and does not know what is happening in her country in the meantime. You have repeatedly stated that you were not aware that Jürgen Conings was on that OCAD list level 3. As the only military he was on that list from February 17th. Level 3 shows that that threat is possible and likely. If we can believe you, you weren't aware of this, apparently none of your cabinet. Your cabinet is full of clever minds who have a lot of background information and a history within the security services. If that is the case, the image of a queen in an ivory tower is quite visible. That is strange for someone who claims that "she is the most useful in her position for the Ministry of Defence." I'm quoting you. We are also left with a number of questions about actions that you have taken in the meantime. In recent days, you have announced numerous actions. We support a lot of these actions. We also believe that there is no room for extremists in Defence and in our society, certainly not for potentially dangerous extremists. So don't put words in my mouth. Those investigations must be carried out, but we still have a lot of questions to ask. What actions have you specifically ordered? Which people should be screened? I therefore agree with the questions put by Mrs Ponthier. Madam Minister, I repeat what you said to me last week: 'Mr Buysrogge, I have inherited chaos, chaos from which you are at the root by disinvesting in this department, by closing your eyes, by lowering the norm, by accepting the unacceptable, by awakening populism and hatred for many years. With this government, we have no place for such individuals in the Defense Department anymore." Those are your words. Last week you deliberately chose to attack me in this gallery: "I and by extension my party and our ideology have stirred up hatred, la haine. We have made it unacceptable acceptable'. I'm not gonna stand for this, Madam Secretary. I don't agree with that. I expected you to have proposed working with Parliament and working together to find solutions to what has gone wrong. You chose to say that we closed our eyes to all sorts of things that went wrong. A cat in a tight spot clearly makes weird jumps. Last week it was our fault. Ever since this week, it seems to be the DOD's fault. You were less furious to my party yesterday, an attitude which I do appreciate. I would appreciate it if you would apologize today, Madam Minister, not to me, but to the many generous, peaceful and non-violent Flemish nationalists with a heart for defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as I was able to say at the Defence Committee meeting on 26 May, Jürgen Conings was entered in the joint OCAM database on 17 February 2021. On the basis of the initial information provided to me, it appears that this information was only processed at the level of the SGRS without fully going back to the hierarchy of the service. The Chief of the SGRS said he was not informed. It therefore appears that the exploitation of the information according to which Jürgen Conings was included in the OCAM data bank was incomplete. Similarly, the flow of this information has been incomplete and has remained limited to service. This information, even isolated, should, by its nature, have been subject to a reassessment of the degree of follow-up and an adjustment of the measures taken. The R Committee decided to initiate a monitoring investigation into the management of this case by the SGRS and the State Security and the cooperation between them and the Defence. At my express request, he will also consider certain issues. The results of this survey should indicate what information has been exchanged by which services and what information has been decisive for the inclusion of Jürgen Conings at level 3 in the common database. The report is due by the end of June. I will, of course, keep you informed. It is currently premature to draw any conclusions on a merger of the two intelligence services. With regard to the theft of weapons on 17 May, this is the information that the Chief of Defence provided to me on Tuesday night. These are the first elements of the internal investigation. The staff member served as a logistics assistant in the foreign deployment preparation cell without having an instructor role. He had access to both the ammunition depot and the armory. To access the ammunition depot, he held an access card issued by the security officer. To access the armory, he was on the list of authorized persons who can remove the key. On 17 May, Jürgen Conings accessed the ammunition depot and the armory, abusing access and probably the confidence of the present staff member. The independent internal investigation conducted by the General Inspectorate will determine whether the procedures for the removal of weapons and ammunition have been followed. If they have, count on me to evaluate their effectiveness. The investigation will also determine whether misconduct has occurred. I will react, of course, in the appropriate way if any shortcomings are found. In the meantime, I have asked the SGRS to redouble its efforts to carry out its responsibilities and mobilize all available resources. Again, I will return before you, with the final elements of the investigation. I can already tell you that, among the measures that are currently the subject of an in-depth analysis, there is a proposal to update the disciplinary regulations. I have also been studying for several weeks the possibility of increasing security checks throughout the careers of military personnel, but also civilians, as well as linking these screenings to access to weapons and dangerous equipment. In this context, the budgetary implications and staff needs will depend on the direction that will eventually be followed. That is, of course, being analyzed. As regards the screening of applicants, the ADIV can always consult open sources on social networks if they are public and thus contribute to the initial safety verification of an applicant. I now turn to the questions relating to the members being followed. 28 soldiers are succeeded by military intelligence because of a possible link with extreme right-wing ideas. On 18 and 21 May, when the facts came to light, on the basis of a new assessment, which I had asked the military intelligence service, I called for preventive internal measures against 11 persons, so that, in accordance with the procedures, these persons would no longer have access to weapons, would no longer have access to ammunition, would be redirected to functions where they no longer exercise authority over colleagues and would be closely followed by ADIV and/or their direct hierarchy. Between yesterday and today, similar measures have been taken with respect to a twelfth person following a risk reassessment by the SMS. I have indeed asked the SGRS to constantly reassess the list of people being followed for their proximity to extremist and violent environments on any side. Further developments are therefore possible in the assessment of risks on a day-to-day basis. I confirm that there is no member of the military police on this list of 12 people. The SGRS told me about them that there was no information at this stage to consider them a threat. I will not give any details of the persons concerned. I will not give details about the data subjects because the information is classified and privacy sensitive, and because the investigations are ongoing. These preventive measures, taken in the interests of the service, are not intended to punish an error. They are temporary and have no effect on the military concerned in the area of administrative or financial status. I would also like to point out that it is never about the punishment of expressing a political opinion. You can be sure that all the measures that have been taken and will be taken will respect the rule of law. That is precisely what distinguishes our democratic system from the system advocated by the extremists. Once the precautionary measures have been fully rolled out, appropriate measures may be followed on a case-by-case basis. Such measures may be taken in the interest of the service, such as restriction of access to arms or suspension, or of a disciplinary nature, up to an ex officio resignation for proven cases of commission of criminal offences, for example. What is currently happening on the social media is very disturbing. From the moment this Facebook deleted Facebook group was founded, I asked the ADIV, in collaboration with the other security partners, to follow closely what was posted. For the employees of Defense, the applicable rules for behaviour on social media continue to apply. Monitoring of social media is still ongoing. Following up on Facebook pages is one of the tasks of the intelligence services anyway. They use that information, among other things, to create a profile and an analysis of individuals. Please be aware that I am determined to make this matter clear and that I will of course consider further measures on the basis of the final report of the internal audit of 15 June and the report of the R Committee of 30 June. You can be sure that my determination has not been tarnished in any way and that in my position I am the most useful to the Ministry of Defence on the side of our women and men.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u164	Madam Minister, I see that you want to answer three Dutch speakers in French as a continuation of the dedain against the Flemings in Parliament. Just as your entire communication in the file does not satisfy us or reassure us. We are deeply concerned by the reports on sanctions from a military point of view. They do not at all show that you will respect the rule of law, as you underlined yesterday during the committee and as you just said in an exact copy of your reply yesterday. You can repeat a thousand times that it is not your intention, but in practice we can only see it as a witch hunt. Today, the argument is guild by association; we see it in a number of files that you have discussed, particularly among the eleven soldiers who have deprived you of some of your rights. Without any evidence of threat, military personnel are indirectly robbed and discriminated against. I think that is a rather dangerous discourse, and I can only join the sociologist Elchardus when he writes in De Morgen that there is no room for Stalinist cleansing in a democracy. However, I fear that they have been set in motion. You have chosen not to answer the detailed questions, and I regret that. They were additional questions to the questions in yesterday's topical debate in committee and we will have to come back to them in committee. Madam Minister, at the time in the Dutroux case, ministers resigned because a guard fell asleep, allowing Dutroux to escape from prison. At that time it was something that a minister could not possibly be aware of; the information was simply not available. Madam Secretary, here you had all the necessary data for picking up. The man in question has been on the radar of our security services for years. You have only failed to request the lists and to take appropriate measures. When faced with a certain level of threat, it should be the logic itself for you, the minister responsible for a security department such as Defence, to analyse the threat of the department and communicate it with ADIV. A manager who is not aware of the fact that one of his workers packed broken goods will also be paid for by his customers. Madam Minister, your final political responsibility requires you to resign, on which you remain silent in all languages, and to withdraw immediately. After all, you would say that you are very well placed with the Defense Department. If, however, there is no resignation from the facts now known, what should Ministers do in this country before they resign? Then the concept of political responsibility is dead and buried by the current political class. You are constantly talking about measures and dancing around the hot stuff and around the essence. However, one of the most important measures you should take is to leave, Madam Secretary. Step up and make way for a successor, who will hopefully take security procedures, follow-up and synergy with our intelligence services and democratic principles more seriously. That is why, Madam Secretary, we are tabling a motion of censure against you as Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u165	Madam Secretary, thank you for your partial answers. The rest will have to wait until the investigation is completed and we will be able to take note of it in the Committee on Defence and until the scheduled hearing with the Chief of Intelligence ADIV and with the General Staff. However, I would also like to take statements from my predecessors. This is not about which minister is in which post. This is not about a new Secretary of Defense. The problem is much deeper; it is a structural problem of systematic laxity towards and underestimates the threat of the far right, not only in the army, but in all parts of society. That bothers me a little, because if we constantly put the threat of extreme right into perspective by saying that it is one of the many forms of extremism to which we have to pay attention, then we are in fact ignoring the seriousness of the facts of recent years. The threat of the extreme right does indeed manifest itself on the ground. Think of the fire at the asylum center in Bilzen, think of Schild and Friends, think of the case of Jürgen Conings now. Also the threats and inciting hatred and violence by members of shady, downright fascist and racist clubs such as Blood, Soil, Honor and Faith should really encourage the federal government to increase vigilance, especially when there are even military members of those organizations and they are even known to the intelligence services. That certainly does not mean that all the military are extremists. It is a pity that the actions of individuals and now by the actions of Jürgen Conings discredit a great many soldiers, soldiers who are dutyfully at the service of society and who have consciously chosen defence and see that as a vocation. Let it be clear that it is very unfortunate that they too are now being smeared. However, if the government wants to take the threat seriously and tackle it decisively, it will really have to take action: a better screening process, not a witch hunt or thought police, not only in recruitment, but also afterwards. If it is known that someone is inciting hatred, spreading hate messages through social media and or making death threats, then one must intervene and transfer that information to those who are placed to play briefly on the ball. In this way we can prevent incidents and will not follow the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u166	Madam Secretary, I'm not sure you have the right folder; I have the impression it's yesterday's folder. Are you sure you used the right folder? This is where pertinent questions have been asked, both new ones and questions that you did not answer yesterday. However, you just repeated what you said yesterday. I find it regrettable that, given the answers, the format of the interplay, an important parliamentary instrument, is being lightly handled. We have not received an answer to the questions of how many soldiers are being followed on social media, what exactly is happening and exactly which directors have received ADIV. How many people are being followed? What happens next? What sanctions can they incur? We didn't get any excuses either, and if I had to be honest, I wouldn't have expected that either. I regret that because it was about hate speech. Last week you spoke about the hatred we would have sown. You do not revoke those statements and you do not apologize for them. I regret that. Ladies and gentlemen, the last word on the dossier has certainly not been said. It may be discussed again in plenary, as in the Committee on Defence and in confidential meetings of the monitoring committee of the Standing Committees P and I. I can reassure Mr Laaouej, who was very quick to table his simple motion; we have a motion of recommendation ready. It is actually a very pragmatic motion, not a personal attack on the Minister. We want to be able to learn collective lessons from this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u167	I will not read our motion in full, you will be sent in a moment. In our motion for a resolution, we call for a firm approach to dangerous extremism, Madam Minister, to this end you have put forward a number of good initiatives on the basis of clear criteria and respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms of our military. We are also asking for Parliament to be involved in the best possible way, including the Committee on Defence and the committees that have been decided. As soon as there are reports, we ask them to be here so that we can debate them. Madam Secretary, I urge you to enter into dialogue with us. We're not unhumans, we're not the unhumans you painted us for last week. Talk to us, and we can work together to find solutions. I invite you, Madam Secretary. Grab that hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u168	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of censure was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier and Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mrs Annick Ponthier and Mr Steven De Vuyst and Mr Peter Buysrogge and the response of the Minister of Defence, - whereas on 17 May a military man operating in the barracks in Leopoldsburg, Jürgen Conings, disappeared with heavy military weapons and so far no trace of him was found; - whereas a massive force of both military and police forces and even foreign troops has been mobilised to detect and arrest Conings; - whereas since 2019, Conings has been on the radar of the ADIV military intelligence service, which is under the responsibility of the Minister of Defence; - whereas Conings was included in the OCAD database in February with threat level 3 and this information is automatically transferred to the ADIV; - whereas despite all this information available, Jürgen Conings was still an arms instructor in the Leopoldsburg barracks, thus having access to the ammunition and weapons depots where he was likely to have removed his weapons; - whereas there were no surveillance cameras present in the weapons depot, indicating faulty security procedures; - whereas both the Chief of Staff and the Minister of Defence have acknowledged that errors have occurred in the flow of information and in respect of rules and procedures; - whereas several reports indicate an arbitrary, selective and politically inspired discharge of Defence and Security Services in response to the incident; - whereas the answers given by the Minister of Defence in the Committee on Defence and the plenary of the Chamber leave a number of essential questions open, especially as regards the responsibility for this matter; - whereas the facts already known indicate a crushing final political responsibility of the Minister of Defence; - considering that a general, non-selective investigation into all forms of extremism within the Defence Department and the security services is insisting; - considering the need to optimise the lack of security procedures in our defence; Takes away the trust of the Minister of Defence." A motion of distrust was tabled by Mrs. Annick Ponthier and Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mrs Annick Ponthier and Mr. Steven De Vuyst et Peter Buysrogge and the Minister of Defence's response, - Considering that on 17 May last, a soldier who was active in the Bourg-Léopold barracks, Jürgen Conings, disappeared with heavy military weapons and without leaving, until now, any trace; - Considering that huge numbers, composed of both military and police, and even foreign troops, have been mobilized to detect and arrest Mr. Conings; - Considering that Mr. Conings was already in the collimator of the SGRS military intelligence service since 2019, which falls within the competence of the Minister of Defence; - Whereas Mr Conings was included in the OCAM database in February with threat level 3 and this information is automatically communicated to the SGRS; - Whereas, despite this information available, Jürgen Conings was still a fire instructor at the Bourg-Léopold barracks and thus had access to ammunition and weapons depots, where he probably obtained his weapons; - Whereas no surveillance cameras were present in the weapons depot, which is indicative of inadequate security procedures; - Whereas both the Chief of Staff and the Minister of Defence have acknowledged that errors have been committed in the transmission of information and in respect of compliance with the rules and procedures; - Whereas various news reports reveal arbitrary, selective and politically inspired clean-up by the Defence and security services in response to the incident; - Considering that the answers given by the Minister of Defence in the National Defence Committee and in the plenary of the House leave some essential questions open, certainly with regard to the responsibilities in this matter; - Considering that the facts already known indicate an overwhelming final political responsibility of the Minister of Defence; - Whereas a general and non-selective investigation into all forms of extremism within the defence and security services is required; - Whereas failing security procedures within our Defence must be optimised; withdraws confidence in the Minister of Defence." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge and Mr Theo Francken and Mrs Darya Safai and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mrs Annick Ponthier and Mr Steven De Vuyst and Mr Peter Buysrogge and the response of the Minister of Defence, asks the government - to tackle in depth problems of dangerous extremism within the Defense Department, regardless of ideological impact. To do so on the basis of clear, transparent and democratic criteria, without prejudice to the fundamental rights of freedom of expression and political conviction of our military; - ensure that the additional screening of recruits and soldiers during their service takes place with respect for personal privacy and on the basis of a clear legal framework; - ensure that the additional financial effort for screening is proportionate to the size of the problem and does not put additional pressure on the already scarce budgets of Defence; - provide defence with the necessary resources to review their security protocols and monitor sensitive areas (such as depots) in order to avoid blind spots towards the future; - to seek within the government a reform guaranteeing direct access by ministers in the security departments to the databases of the OCAD Common Database; - to the Minister of Defence, to enter into structural consultations with the head of service of her military intelligence service in order to adequately and specifically follow up problems of dangerous extremism within the ranks of Defence; - to stress, within the levels of the ADIV, the importance of full transparency and flow of information to its own management and relevant commanders of Defence units; - operate in full democratic transparency and immediately inform the relevant Chambers of the results of the ongoing investigations within Defence and the ADIV, in particular with regard to the Jürgen C case.' A motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge in Theo Francken and Mrs Darya Safai and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mrs Annick Ponthier and Mr. Steven De Vuyst et Peter Buysrogge and the Minister of Defence's response, asks the government - to take effective measures to address the problems of dangerous extremism within the Defence, regardless of the ideological trend. To do so on the basis of clear, transparent and democratic criteria that do not violate the fundamental rights and freedom of expression and political conviction of our military; - to ensure that the additional screening of recruits and soldiers during their service is carried out in a privacy-based manner and on the basis of a clear legal framework; - to ensure that the additional financial effort devoted to screening is commensurate with the scale of the problem and does not put pressure on already meagre defence budgets; - to provide the Defence with the means necessary for the revision of its security protocols and to ensure the monitoring of sensitive sites (such as depots) in order to avoid blind spots in the future; - to work within the government on a reform guaranteeing direct access by ministers of the security departments to the databases of the OCAM Joint Data Bank; - the Minister of Defence should now engage in a structural dialogue with the head of his military intelligence service in order to ensure an adequate and targeted follow-up to the problems of dangerous extremism in the ranks of the Defence; - to stress, within the ranks of the SGRS, the importance of full transparency and the transmission of information to its own management and to the relevant superiors of the defence units; - to operate in full democratic transparency and immediately inform the relevant committees of the Chamber of the results of the ongoing investigations within the Defence and the SGRS, in particular concerning the Jürgen C case." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Ms Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Wouter De Vriendt et Servais Verherstraeten. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u169	I shall come back to the respect of Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure. A letter is being sent today to all Members regarding the obligation of confidentiality, calling for it to be observed where it applies. You guys got that letter in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u170	Madam President, we have just had an exchange of views on this matter. We then announced an order motion. You then said that you regretted the violations that have occurred. In the meantime, you have also taken initiative: you once again call on all Members to respect confidentiality and you remind them of their responsibilities. Since you have taken these initiatives, we are not going to put that order motion to the vote. However, Madam President, we invite you to take the necessary initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u171	As stated in its mission (DOC 55 1394/001), the mandate of the special commission to examine the management of the VOCID-19 epidemic by Belgium ends on 25 June 2021. As stipulated in its mandate (DOC 55 1394/001), the mandate of the Special Committee responsible for examining the approach to the COOVID-19 epidemic by Belgium ends on 25 June 2021. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 May 2021, I propose that you extend the term of office until the parliamentary holidays. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 May 2021, I propose that the mandate be extended until the summer recess. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u172	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 1 April 2021, an appeal to the candidates was published in the Moniteur belge of 13 April 2021 for the appointment of an alternate member of the French-speaking physician and for three terms as a Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Central Prison Supervision Board. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 1 April 2021, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 13 April 2021 for the mandate of French-speaking, Deputy Doctor and for three mandates of Dutch-speaking, Deputy Member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Office. No applications were submitted. No applications were submitted. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 May 2021, I propose that you publish a new call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for these terms of office. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 May 2021, I propose that you publish a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for these mandates. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u173	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 1 April 2021, a call for candidates was communicated among all effective Dutch-speaking members for the term of office of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervision Board. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 1 April 2021, a call to candidates among all Dutch-speaking effective members was published for the mandate of member of the Bureau of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Service. By e-mail of 7 April 2021, Mr. Pieter Houbey applied for the Bureau's term of office. By e-mail dated 7 April 2021, Mr Pieter Houbey submitted his candidacy for the mandate of a member of the Bureau. As the only candidate, he was heard in the Justice Committee on May 25, 2021. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported on the hearing to the Conference of Presidents on 26 May 2021. He was the only candidate to be heard in the Justice Committee on 25 May 2021. Ms Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported on this hearing to the Conference of Presidents of 26 May 2021. Since there is only one candidate, the Chamber may declare Mr. Pieter Houbey elected as a member of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervisory Board, pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of the Chamber. Since there is only one candidate, Mr Pieter Houbey may, pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6, of the Rules of Procedure, shall be declared elected for the term of office of a member of the Office of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u174	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 May 2021, I propose that you extend until Thursday 10 June 2021 4 p.m. the deadline for: - the appointment of the alternate member of Mr Didier Dochain to the Boards of Directors of Unia/Myria (No 1987/1); - the appointment of the alternate member of Ms. Shaireen Aftab to the Boards of Directors of Unia/Myria (No. 1988/1); - and the appointment of effective members in the context of the renewal of half of the terms of office of the Commissions of Appointment for the Notariat (No. 1989/1). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 May 2021, I propose that the deadline until Thursday 10 June 2021 be extended to 4 p.m. for: - the designation of the Deputy Member of Mr Didier Dochain on the Boards of Unia/Myria (No. 1987/1); - the designation of Mrs Sharieen Aftab's alternate member on the boards of Unia/Myria (No. 1988/1); - and the appointment of permanent members as part of the renewal of half of the mandates of the Notarial Appointment Committees (No. 1989/1). No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u175	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, stay, establishment and expulsion of foreigners in respect of students, No. 1980/1. The Government asked for an urgent opinion pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals was submitted, as regards students, No. 1980/1. The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill amending Article 39/79 of the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreigners in respect of students was tabled, No. 1981/1. The Government also asked for an urgent opinion pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law amending Article 39/79 of the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals, as regards students, No. 1981/1. Since there is no member of the government present or is expected to be present, I suggest that you postpone these requests until next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u176	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u177	Mrs Fonck, you are asking for the urgency of the proposal for a law amending the coordinated laws on the Council of State with a view to introducing new rules for urgent consultation of the legislative section of the Council of State with regard to draft regulatory decrees, No. 1998/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u178	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are asking for the urgency of the bill tabled by Mrs Vanessa Matz and several colleagues, which amends the coordinated laws on the Council of State with a view to introducing new rules for urgent consultation of the section of legislation with regard to regulatory orders. During the management of the covid crisis, the government used and abused regulatory orders, including orders restricting fundamental rights and freedoms. Most of the time, he did so without even consulting the legislative section of the Council of State. Worse, the government and the majority want the Pandemic Bill to be voted urgently, which further strengthens the King's powers in the event of a pandemic. This strengthening is totally excessive for us; it is all the more excessive because it does not go hand in hand with a strengthening of judicial or quasi-judicial control over decisions taken in place of Parliament. This proposal, as you will have understood, aims to require that the Council of State be consulted on all regulatory orders, even in urgent cases, but by allowing the entry into force of the text submitted to the Council of State pending its opinion, which would strengthen legal controls on the government's action without, however, slowing down the adoption of urgent measures when urgent measures are to be taken. I had the opportunity – I imagine you too in the majority – to hear that the minister had the will to move forward on the ground with an amendment to the coordinated laws on the Council of State, precisely in the context of the discussion of the Pandemia Act. We therefore hope that there will be broad support for our urgent request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u179	I propose that the group presidents decide on the urgency. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u180	Mrs Pas, you ask the urgency of the motion for a resolution on the granting of a full social status and the improvement of the working conditions of medical specialists in training, No. 2004/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u181	Madam President, a few weeks ago there was another debate here at Question Time where, across party boundaries, everyone was convinced that a full social status and working conditions for the specialist doctor in training should be urgently addressed. I heard all the political groups questioning the Minister say that there is an urgent need to do something about this. This resolution responds to this. I am counting on everyone who claimed that then, and also the Minister himself, who admitted that urgent work had to be done, to support the urgency of this proposal with great enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u182	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u183	Mr De Vuyst, you are asking for urgency on the proposal for resolution No. 2013/1 on support for the Palestinian people and the imposition of sanctions on the Israeli State as long as it does not comply with international law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u184	Madam President, we are calling for the urgency of this resolution, because the solution to the humanitarian crisis in Gaza and the violations of international law by the State of Israel require not only a ceasefire, but also a policy of sanctions against the State of Israel so that international law is finally respected. The wall, the blockade, the occupation, colonisation, apartheid, for 73 years the State of Israel has violated the rights of the Palestinian people, but no sanctions are being imposed. They are always reserved for our strategic rivals, but not for our self-declared allies. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to change that. That is why we are calling for the urgency of this resolution, because the situation in Gaza and the occupation of the Palestinian territories has not suddenly become a thing of the past as a result of the ceasefire. In order to achieve a lasting and just solution for the Palestinian people, we must also put pressure on them and punish the State of Israel until international law is respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u185	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u186	Madam President, I should like to point out that the PS Group tabled a motion for a resolution several weeks ago calling for the lifting of the blockade on Gaza, which is, moreover, on the agenda. We have asked for another text to be attached to this proposal, which we have tabled to request that the Israeli Government be placed before its responsibilities, in view of its incessant violations of international law, whether it be the annexation of East Jerusalem or the expulsion of families from their ancestrally inherited homes. At the same time, I wish to say this. We are beginning to get tired of the hypocrisy of the PTB, which closes its eyes constantly when it comes to abuses that affect millions of Muslims in China, who are victims of persecution by a regime simply because of their religious affiliation. Similarly, the same PTB does not condemn the detention of millions of Uighurs Muslims in China in labour camps, forced to work as slaves. When Muslim women are sterilized again, the PTB prefers not to condemn and chooses to remain an accomplice to the Chinese regime. That hypocrisy is enough! When we condemn injustices in the world, we must do so completely, regardless of the situation and whatever country concerned. To condemn, as we do, the abuses committed in Gaza, expulsions and violations of international law, we will of course always agree with this approach. We're doing it! Now, when it comes to Uighurs Muslims in China, you close your eyes! Why? Because you're afraid of the Chinese diet! That's the problem with you, the PTB! We're tired of this hypocrisy! When we condemn injustices in the world, we must do so everywhere; not selectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u187	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u188	As far as the urgency of the text is concerned, it is on the agenda. But I denounce your hypocrisy to the PTB! If we have to repeat it again, I will repeat it a second time! See you next week in committee!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u189	Mr. Laaouej has been clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u190	I would like to return to Mr Laaouej's speech, who himself said that there is a proposal pending in committee. There is now one of us and the PS on the list of considering cases. This can be linked to it. We can also have the discussion, a very important debate. We are not asking for urgency for our proposal, because there is a proposal to which it can be linked, so that we can have the discussion in committee next week. I suggest we do that there, too. My group says no to the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u191	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda of 19 May 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 19 May 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 130/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Sander Loones; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Prévot. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 130/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Sander Loones; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Prévot. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u192	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief, but this is something important. As a Member of Parliament, we must be careful about the instruments we have. Interpreting is a special instrument, as is the motion of recommendation. However, I believe that a motion of recommendation is now in order, since it concerns a project that represents huge amounts of money. From the European Union there will be 5.9 billion to invest in relance, of which 1.2 billion will be invested by the federal government. These investments are subject to a whole procedure, including the selection of projects, monitoring the proper use of these funds, combined with reforms. We note that the government, at the top of the 1.2 billion, wants to plan another 1.4 billion in investment, but there is nothing clear about that. We do not know how they will be selected and what criteria will apply. We do not know whether these investments are linked to reforms. We do not know how these investments will be monitored or controlled, what the audit is exactly. We also do not know how that sum will be paid. So we don't really know anything about it. It is EUR 1.4 billion, which I believe is worth a little interplay. What we are proposing in our motion is not so exceptional. Firstly, we are asking to think about a good system for selecting projects. We propose that the criteria set out by the European Parliament should be followed. We can also accept a proposal from your own government agreement, a consultation of the Länder to find out exactly what they need and how they can be helped. On that basis the selection can be made. We understand from Minister Dermine that he is not reluctant to accept these criteria. Secondly, the proposal is to link this to reforms. Europe is doing this for its part, so let us link that same logic to the 1.4 billion you want to invest: not only spending money, but also ensuring that reforms are implemented at the same time. Again, I ask Secretary of State Dermine, who says that this is actually not illogical and that it is perfectly possible. Thirdly, ensure a proper follow-up, a good audit, a good check-up. To ensure that Parliament is involved and that information is provided at regular intervals, that this is done properly as is the case with European funds. Once again, I ask Secretary of State Dermine who replies that this is actually a good proposal and that this will be done explicitly. Then I wonder where we are. We're in a parliament. I hear a lot of promises here, especially from the government. You must forgive me, I sometimes get a little suspicious and think it might be wise to have those promises on paper. Mr Dermine says that it is not a problem, he agrees with it, it is good, let's put it on paper now, that there will be a good selection, that there will be good control, that we will link it to reforms. Your own words, Mr Dermine. Then I find that suddenly, because of another PS'er, there is a countermovement, a simple motion. It's new to me. It's the first time I've had a conversation. I see a simple motion and then I want to know the procedure, that's the lawyer in me. I'm going to look in the Bible, the book of the clerk, Mr. Van der Hulst. He asks what a simple motion is: a simple motion, let us be honest, is indispensable in our system of coalition governments to give a minimum of stability. In fact, that's a polite way of saying that you're with so much in a coalition that if you can't practice the rules or at least have a way out, you'll never get a stable government. He says that this does not mean that the majority can hide behind a simple motion. The majority should not actually table simple motions. According to the Bible, it is only acceptable as "defense against an interplay aimed at breaking up government majority." Only if I have an interplay if it is intended to create tension within the majority, in order to ensure that those parties are played out against each other, can that be so. Only then can a simple motion be accepted. Mr Dermine has no problem with my interpretation and motion, but Mr Prévot, from the same majority, then submits a simple motion because according to the Bible, this motion apparently creates tensions between your own majority. I'll be amazed, of course. What is it now? Is Mr. Dermine telling the truth? Will he effectively implement what he has promised? Then there is no problem at all in voting on this interplay. Or it's the opposite. Apparently, then, there is no confidence in Mr Dermine. Apparently there is tension within the federal government, because the Bible says that a simple motion is only acceptable when tension is created. I'm curious. I assume that Parliament does not want to undermine Mr Dermine's credibility. I assume you are saying that Mr Dermine is telling the truth and that you are all working together to make what Mr Dermine promises. I therefore assume that you would prefer to withdraw that simple motion, but at least vote away, and vote in favour of the motion of recommendation. I'll be curious. How much confidence do you have in Secretary of State Dermine?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u193	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u194	Yes 82 Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u195	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Three motions were tabled: - a motion of distrust was tabled by Mrs. Annick Ponthier and Barbara Pas; - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge and Theo Francken and Mrs Darya Safai; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Wouter De Vriendt et Servais Verherstraeten. Three motions were tabled: - a motion of censure was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier and Mrs Barbara Pas; - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge and Mr Theo Francken and Mrs Darya Safai; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u196	Yes 87 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, the motion of distrust and the motion of recommendation are lapsed. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of censure and the motion of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u197	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u198	Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1136/9) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1136/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u199	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u200	Yes 81 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 46 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1887/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1887/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u201	Madam President, normally Mrs Khattabi was of service, but she was absent because of illness. However, the Deputy Prime Minister is still present. My question is that if necessary he should explain the urgency so that it can be voted on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u202	Madam Chair, Ms. Khattabi's absence for health reasons is an explanation of the government's absence. I think Mr. Van Peteghem is here and he can tell us the reasons for the urgency. We'll hear it. The Assembly is the master of its work and we can fully consider a vote on urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u203	Madam President, as we know, this government has quite a few members. One might suspect that one will find someone to defend the urgency. Moreover, this is not usually the Minister concerned by the draft law in question. If I'm not mistaken, Minister Dedonder was here not so long ago. I have no idea why she didn't. Mrs Khattabi did not get sick on the spot. Otherwise, I would certainly accept that apology. I do not have the impression that this is the case. Mrs Dedonder is leaving the Half-Round at the moment when she can ask for urgency. You are not calling her back, Mr Laaouej. You have even had lengthy debates with your colleagues from the PVDA. So there was plenty of time to call Mrs Dedonder back, who was perhaps still standing here in the cloakroom. All she had to do was read a text from the Minister after getting a translation into French, and then she could have asked for the urgency perfectly. What is being asked here is a condescension to Parliament with which I absolutely cannot agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u204	Madam President, I would like to endorse this. We are already at the voting stage and you yourself said that you postponed the request for urgency in the absence of a member of the government until next week. As my colleague has said, there are not enough members of the government. If someone gets sick, communication is possible in advance to pass it on to each other. I can only observe that there is not only a lack of interest in the committees, where meetings very often start too late due to the lack of a majority quorum, but that this also applies to the government if urgent requests are to be made. That's very sad. It does not mean, however, that we should be condescending and that we should suddenly suspend the votes or change the order of things. I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u205	Madam President, I just want to remind you that you are the president of all the Members of this House, not the president of the majority, nor the president of the PS Members, as you did earlier when you allowed Mr Laaouej to intervene and attack the PTB at length, just to justify a vote, without giving me the opportunity to reply to his unjustified and inconsistent attacks. Today, we heard you say that the point of urgency was postponed until next week. I suppose you still have enough clean love to not question your own decision. I think the case is closed and there is no need to go back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u206	You're clever, Mr. Van Hees, but that's not the case. I think that when you made those clarifications earlier, we were discussing the urgency vote, and we were not in an exchange of views. It's a first thing. I am also chairman of all the members, of course. It seems to me that I let talk about both the majority and the opposition. It's not a problem. I think that earlier we did not have a minister present. Now there is a member of the government present to ask for urgency. I suggest we let the member of the government speak. That's part of our job, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u207	Madam President, the majority can, of course, use its majority, but it can also abuse it. The latter is taking place at the moment. I address myself to Minister Van Peteghem so that he would have the decency not to join this farce. Minister, I understand that it was very unfortunate that Minister Dedonder abandoned you. After all, that is what happened. Minister Dedonder didn't have the collegiality to get out of the cloakroom. The remark that the government was absent came only a few minutes after Minister Dedonder left the Halfrond. Mr Laaouej, why did you not call Mrs Dedonder back at the time? You didn't find that necessary. The collegiality within the government was so poor that Mrs Dedonder didn't even come back to read the text that Minister Van Peteghem could have delivered to her. Ladies and gentlemen, you can, of course, take advantage of your majority by pressing for urgency. We will have no defence against that. However, it is not politically decent at all. I should also like to point out that we have had to stop committee meetings this week because there were not enough members of the majority. At some other committee meetings, members of the majority appeared to be present in two meetings at the same time in order to provide a quorum. Colleagues of the majority, I call on you to observe a basic decency. That is to be present during the work. The same applies to the members of the government. Such a way of working is absolutely indecent. I think the Minister is too serious a man to play in that farce.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u208	Madam President, first of all I should like to say that Mrs Kathleen Verhelst, in vote No. 7 voted in favour. Secondly, the members of the government had made agreements. Mrs Khattabi had contacted Mrs De Bleeker this morning to inform her that she was ill. She had also promised to pass on all the documents, which apparently did not happen with Mr Mahdi's request for urgency. I don't really want that whole show here to last any longer. Eva De Bleeker has left, not knowing that there was an urgent request, despite her request to pass everything on. Mrs. Dedonder is now being poured with pitch and feathers. However, it simply cannot do anything about it. She did not have to replace Mrs Khattabi and was allowed to leave the sitting after the interplays.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u209	Madam President, it is quite surprising to receive lessons of collegiality from a political group that, under the previous legislature, has constantly put the Prime Minister in full swing and has even very often offended him when he was a member of the same coalition, of the same majority. Once every 15 days, there were organized acts of humiliation of the Prime Minister in the head of the N-VA, who was a member of the previous government. So there is no collegiality lesson to be learned. On the question of the relationship between the majority and the opposition, last week we could have asked for an immediate vote on the referral of an amendment to the Council of State. But we accepted a session suspension because you knew very well that you might not have the sufficient number of voters. It means that, in terms of democratic courtesy, because that is what this is all about, when you talk about an abuse of majority outside consideration and outside of any proportion, I think you are seriously lacking in shade. That is why I think that from the moment a member of the government is here, present among us, to explain the reasons for the emergency request, the least we can do is to be able to listen to it, to be able to hear it and to decide on it. Finally, when I hear some excessive or abusive expressions, I will reply that the assembly is the master of its work. The assembly is the master of its work! We can decide that an emergency should be considered. The rest, in my view, are arguments of a polemic and political nature - I am telling you as I think it is - that do not serve the institution because the institution needs to hear the reasons why the government is asking for urgency. And even that, you don't want it! That is why, Madam President, we must and we can hear the Minister on the grounds of urgency required by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u210	Madam President, this is a little too much and I cannot help but react! This is the second time that the government is not present when it should be. You refer to the generosity that you demonstrated last week by giving ten minutes to be able to vote in an individual capacity. For an amendment to the agenda requested by the majority last week, you decided, as president, that there was a vote to be cast by each group leader. But when it comes to an opposition application, the Rules are invoked by requiring a nominative vote! This "two-weight, two-step" approach, depending on what interests and arranges the majority, I find it shocking. It was last week. We didn't say anything in plenary. We had a little discussion yesterday in the Conference of Presidents. Today, Madam President, we find ourselves with a government that is unable, at the right time, to defend an emergency request and have it voted. Then, all of a sudden, we decide, in the middle of the votes, to change the whole organisation, because, again, it arranges the majority. That is the law of the majority. That's really not right! Your responsibility as president is indeed to carry out work that is carried out in a correct, decent and respectful manner. Is it your choice to sort of go in the direction of one up to the-butism? [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u211	In the way, I'm sorry, that's what's happening! The minister who is here is clearly not responsible for the current situation. If you plead and get us to vote on this emergency request, it's a choice you'll have to take, but it's a choice that will pose a little more problems after the addition of everything that's happened since this government was set up. I find, Madam President, even in relation to you, that this is really becoming a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u212	Mrs Fonck, I can hear you and hear a lot of things. But I think that our job as parliamentarians is to control the government and at least hear its demands. This is part of our work. This is not a question of majority or opposition. It is a question of the parliamentary missions. Today, I want that to be respected. Earlier, there was no member of the government. You were told why there was a lack of understanding today and the absence of a member of the government at the very moment when we were wondering if we could address this issue. Mr. Minister has come. He is here to explain to us the reasons why there would be an urgent need. I just heard you. I can still pass the floor to Mr. From Roover and to Mrs. Pas. But I already have a feeling, regardless of the threats to my presidency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u213	Madam President, we have a majority that is unable to reach a number when matters need to be discussed and voted on. We were even voting more at the same time in several committees this week. We are with a government that is unable to communicate and make agreements about who comes here to ask for urgency. I take note of that. There is nothing I can do but establish that, but that is no reason to turn this House into a circus. Mr Laaouej is right when he says that the majority here decides what happens to the agenda, but it is very sad to see that this is participation in practice and that that majority is just doing what the government asks, that the government's agenda is pushed through here every time, a majority against opposition. I think that is an embarrassment for a parliamentary democracy and it is only getting worse. I regret that you are going along with that, Madam President. We are already in the process of voting and you said yourself that you would postpone this point until next week. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, whether this is the political renewal of the government that you are listening to and which you are so slavishly following, the political renewal that the government is so full of. What's next? In the meantime, when the Council of State's opinion on the pandemic law comes in, what are we going to do after the next vote: turn the agenda and bring up the pandemic law? If the government asks, you will. I think it is a disgrace and I am very sorry that you are going along with it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u214	Madam President, I will be much more lenient. The Rules of Procedure are the Rules of Procedure and the majority is the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u215	Take advantage of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u216	If I am not mistaken, however, it is the intention of urgency to move quickly. I would just like to point out that the Rules of Procedure also allow 50 Members of Parliament to slow down that speed again next week during the discussion. If, therefore, the majority intends to abuse the Rules of Procedure, I certainly do not guarantee that this attempt to speed up may not be able to meet another regulatory problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u217	Madam President, we have a fundamental problem and a problem of compliance with the Rules of Procedure. You decided earlier that the emergency request was postponed until next week. Somewhere, you disown yourself; somewhere, you deteriorate the image of Parliament in relation to the government that imposes its policy and agenda. With regard to the Rules of Procedure, item 17.3 states that "the order of business may be amended only by a vote on the initiative, either of the Speaker of the House or of the Government, or by a vote on a motion formulated in writing and supported by a third of the members of the House". Here we have passed this agenda item. We are at the end of the agenda, which is the vote. You can't go back to this agenda. I believe that the matter has been concluded and that we must continue voting. The issue of urgency is no longer on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u218	Colleagues, whenever a Member of Parliament is absent and we are in the discussion, I agree that there should be an intervention, even when the turn has passed. I propose that we do the same with the government. The government is here. If the government had not been present, the point was postponed. But today, we are still in session. I'm so sorry. The meeting is still open. We are in progress and we can decide on our work. That's the reality!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u219	Madam President, the illness of a member of the government may not have allowed all communication to go as it should. The Minister may give the reasons for the urgency. Then I would like to make another suggestion to the opposition. We will not be voting on urgency, but we will be taking it as the first item on the agenda in the next committee. Of course, no opinion is requested from the Council of State, so that we can deal with it properly and quickly. All arguments can and may be exchanged. Then we also have respect for the opposition and the opposition also has respect for something that has not been perfect due to the illness of a member of the government. The Deputy Prime Minister, who has been such a dilapidate to come here, may explain to the Chamber why this urgency is required, so that the opposition can judge my proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u220	Madam President, are you going to allow a vote on urgency?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u221	I think a proposal has just been made. She's addressing the opposition, as I understand it. So there's an expected reaction. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, stay, establishment and expulsion of foreigners in respect of students, No. 1980/1. The Government asked for an urgent opinion pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals was submitted, as regards students, No. 1980/1. The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill amending Article 39/79 of the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreigners in respect of students was tabled, No. 1981/1. The Government also asked for an urgent opinion pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law amending Article 39/79 of the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals, as regards students, No. 1981/1. I give the floor to the government to develop emergency requests. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u222	Madam President, by letter of 11 May 2021, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration requested the application of Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives for two draft law amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals as regards students. The urgency is justified by, first, the pending infringement procedure of the European Commission No. 2018/131 as regards the late transposition of Directive No. It's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay.... it's okay, it's okay, it's okay...... it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it' it' it's okay, it' it' it's okay, it' it' it' it's okay, it' it' it' The draft law provides for a partial transposition of this Directive. Secondly, the urgency is justified by the risk of legal uncertainty if Directive No. It is not possible to convert the product as quickly as possible. Indeed, there is a risk that certain courts will give direct effect to the provisions of the Directive, given the late transposition of the Directive, which dates back to 2016. If the necessary legislative framework is not in place, the granting of direct effect will lead to uncertainty, both for the legal persons concerned and for the administration. Finally, there is the desire to apply different provisions to students who graduate this academic year, such as the provisions around the year of search. In view of the necessary implementing provisions, and this can only be done once the law has been amended, we are faced with a very tight deadline. So much for the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u223	I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on these requests. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on these requests.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u224	Madam President, I ask for a nominative vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u225	This is not possible for an emergency request. You can consult the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u226	We can always ask for a nominative vote!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u227	You can always ask, but that's not possible. The Regulations do not authorize this. The Rules of Procedure do not, in certain circumstances, allow for a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u228	What article is it about?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u229	This is Article 51, paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u230	Vote on Amendment No 13 by Wim Van der Donkt cs on Article 48. (1900/8) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Wim Van der Donckt cs to Rule 48. (1900/8) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u231	Yes 44 Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 48 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 48 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u232	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u233	Yes 95 Yes No. [[39]] No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1900/9) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1900/9) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u234	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u235	Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1964/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1964/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-27-definitief-55-plenair-ip106x.u236	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 3 June 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, June 3, 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
