ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u1	Minister, in your policy paper you announced that a fully digital dossier in criminal matters is one of your goals. We support you in this endeavour. You would improve and supplement the building blocks of the past. One of these building blocks is the digital file in the treatment of criminal records for the council chamber. At present, lawyers and citizens can consult the file digitally at the Court Registry. However, this is a very cumbersome intermediate solution. In Antwerp, for example, it is a very small space, where many computers stand side by side, making it impossible to consult them all at the same time in corona times. There are therefore often waiting times. In addition, a number of computers are regularly defective. That is not an ideal situation, it must be able to do so more efficiently. Criminal records should be able to be consulted fully digitally as soon as possible, especially since the technical possibilities are already available at the moment. I refer to the J-box, which is protected by strict authentication. It offers the technical possibility of electronic inspection. Minister, you may improve me, but I believe that this can be implemented very quickly. Already in 2017, almost four years ago, the then Minister of Justice announced that he would take the necessary steps to realise the electronic file, so that it could be consulted online. It was added immediately that a copy of a criminal record should be free of charge. Unfortunately, this is still not the case almost four years later. However, that is very important, especially in the case of extensive files. After all, it is absolutely not evident to consult them digitally at the Registry. Getting a copy is then desirable and often even necessary in order to be able to study the dossier thoroughly in preparation for the examination. Minister, the problem here is and remains the cost. For a large file, even digitally, this cost could amount to 1,450 euros. Something must therefore be changed as a matter of urgency. Minister, can you give me an update on how to consult criminal records online? When will digital access to all criminal records for lawyers be a reality? Are you going to give the green light to use the J-box, which is secured with a strict authentication, for this? Secondly, pending digital access to criminal records, the cost remains a bottleneck, even for obtaining a digital criminal record. This is because the rates are still the same as for a paper criminal record. You will undoubtedly agree with me that this makes absolutely no sense. The delivery of a paper criminal record is much more labour-intensive for the Registry, it takes a lot of time and there are costs for, among other things, paper and ink. I would have liked to have heard from you the criteria used to record the cost of that digital copy. Why is it still justified that this is the same price as for a paper file? In 2017, a pilot project was conducted in which detained persons could consult their criminal record online from prison. Has that pilot project been evaluated? What are the results of that? Are there any other pilot projects in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u2	Mrs Dillen, your questions are more than justified. One of my first work visits went to the court of Antwerp. I have also been in that famous little room to which you refer. You have already asked a question on 9 November 2020. As the policy statement shows, we want to focus on the realisation of a digital court file, which can be consulted by all parties at a distance. I also told you in the debate on the policy statement that lawyers should be able to do so from the office. Now one has to go to court, sit behind a computer screen and take pictures of a computer screen with the mobile phone. This method is, of course, suboptimal. In order to be able to implement these objectives, we will further develop the various building blocks, including a portal that will only give access to the digital file with strong authentication. As you know, we have received EUR 100 million for the digitalisation of justice in the context of recovery and relance. Part of it will go to the development of that digital file. However, I must tell you that J-box is not suitable for this because of the limited size that messages can have, in particular a maximum of 12 megabytes. That's not enough to transmit criminal records digitally. In the course of this year, I expect the first results. I understand your impatience. You are referring to 2017, but I think we will be able to move forward really quickly now. Secondly, the cost of the digital criminal record is essentially a competence of my colleague in the Treasury, but I am not going to hide behind it. I'll talk to him about this. What you are saying seems perfectly logical to me: we must apply a lower rate when it comes to a digital file. You referred to a price of 1,450 euros. When one speaks of an accessible and human justice, that is not a price that takes that into account. I'll have that conversation with him, and I hope we can get out of it. The price must indeed be in proportion to the costs incurred. Especially when files are transmitted digitally, I wonder how much costs are still involved. In any case, thank you for that suggestion. Thirdly, regarding online consultation of a criminal record from prison, a few years ago a project was launched that allows detainees to consult a judicial file remotely. Of course, this can only be done on condition that the file is pre-scanned by the judicial authorities. The necessary initiatives were taken on the prison side. The following procedure was developed for this purpose. First, each prison was provided with a laptop configured for this purpose only and protected by a firewall. Secondly, the judicial authority gives an authorisation in the name of the inmate to use the platform and sends this authorisation to the prison registry. Thirdly, the prison registry gives the prisoner a username and a password. I have an overview of the number of newly scanned files per correctional court of first instance as well as the number of consultations from prison, i.e. via the kiosk PCs for lawyers and penitentiary institutions. The figures do show the success of the project. I will give you the figures here, which will show that this is indeed a success. The opening-up of prisoners from the penitentiary institutions started in 2016 in Vorst and Marche. After a positive evaluation in 2017, it was systematically expanded. All penitentiary institutions are currently provided with the possibility of consultation. The consultation is therefore possible from all institutions for all files scanned by the courts. Meanwhile, there's also plenty of analysis going on to give lawyers access. After completion of that analysis, a plan will be drawn up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I've missed some timing, though.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u4	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u5	This year, okay. About the J-box I have based myself on a note from the Order of Flemish Baries, which itself states that this is enough. I assume you are aware of that detailed note. If there are alternatives that do not prevent the rapid introduction of the system, that is of course just as good. I would like to thank you for agreeing that the cost of a slightly larger criminal record, even digitally, is high. These are not twenty or thirty-page files, they are larger, but 1,450 euros does not represent the cost of a digital copy, because the cost is at most the price of a USB stick or optical disk, and therefore that amount is not realistic. I would like to thank you for putting your shoulders on that. Finally, I would like to make a comment, not a reply to your reply, but an element for which I would like to draw your attention. I don't know if you know, but I suppose you do. At the moment, the files can be viewed digitally in the treatment for the council chamber. However, all documents are printed and only the paper inspection is possible from the time of dispatch by the correctional court. I am referring specifically to Antwerp, because I have no experience in other districts, but I assume that this is applied in the same way everywhere. However, the logic behind it escapes me. I would therefore like to ask you to provide the possibility of digital access at the correct offices, both at first instance and at the level of appeal. In addition to the cost of printing, I do not understand why a file in the council room can be consulted digitally, but in the correctional court.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u6	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Marijke Dillen and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - whereas full digitisation of justice is rightly one of the objectives of the Minister of Justice and the policy statement shows that the building blocks already laid down in recent years are being improved and supplemented; - whereas a fully digital file in criminal matters is an important part of this; - whereas criminal records still cannot be consulted digitally by lawyers despite the fact that the technical possibilities are already available; - whereas the J-box, which is also protected by strict authentication, offers the technical possibility of electronic access to criminal records, with full protection of professional secrecy and privacy; - whereas as early as 2017 the then Minister of Justice announced that he would take the necessary steps to complete the electronic file, announcing that a copy of a criminal record would be free of charge; - whereas today the cost of a copy of the criminal record remains high; - whereas a digital copy of the criminal record is desirable, and often necessary, in order to be able to study the file thoroughly in order to prepare the procedure for the chamber of inquiry; asks the government - in the event of a high urgency, to work on the digital access to criminal records for lawyers; - to make a digital copy available free of charge, at least to limit the price to the real cost." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: " The House, ayant entendu l.o.interpellation de Mme Marijke Dillen and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea; - Whereas the full digitisation of justice is rightly one of the objectives of the Minister of Justice and its policy statement indicates that it intends to improve and supplement the basic elements already developed in recent years in this field; - Whereas a fully digitized criminal case is an important part of this process; - Whereas, notwithstanding the existence of the technical tools required, the electronic consultation of criminal cases by lawyers is still impossible; - Whereas the protected Jbox application, moreover, is, through a rigorous authentication procedure, proposing the technical tool for electronic consultation of criminal files in full respect of professional secrecy and privacy; - Considering that in 2017, the then Minister of Justice had already announced that he would take the necessary steps to complete the electronic file, adding that a copy of a criminal record could be obtained free of charge; - Whereas the cost of a copy of the criminal record remains high; - Whereas a digital copy of the criminal record is desirable, if not often necessary, in order to be able to study the case in detail with a view to its processing by the Chamber of Counsel; asks the government - to urgently address the implementation of electronic consultation of criminal cases for lawyers; - and in the meantime, to make free or at most at the cost of a digital copy available to them." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Dewael. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Patrick Dewael. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u7	Madam President, Mr Piedboeuf, the offer of online games is a scourge facing Belgium, like other countries. I intend to make the fight against the illegal online sector one of my priorities. I have an excellent collaborator in my firm, Eva De Koninck. I hope you meet her. She's really familiar with the file. Illegal websites that are operated on the margins of the legal market regulated by the gambling commission do not offer any protection to players. For example, age limits are not respected. In the event of a problem, the player has few possibilities as operators are generally based abroad. No verification is carried out with our EPIS (Excluded Persons Information System). This is a blacklist that includes people who do not want or can't have access to the game. This system does not operate at these illegal sites. These illegal sites also affect the Belgian tax system and economy. As a member of the Finance Committee, you certainly are aware of this. I have therefore instructed the Monitoring department of the Commission Secretariat to reactivate the controls on this subject and to complete the blacklist of illegal websites as much as possible, which had not been done since March 2019 in our country. Currently, 192 websites are on the blacklist of illegal sites in Belgium. We are seeing a sharp increase from 2019, which is expected to continue in 2021. This approach is insufficient and shows its limitations since it is sufficient for companies operating these sites to change their URLs to be accessible again in Belgium. In order to address the issue from a different perspective, it seems important to me to intervene upstream rather than downstream, and to raise awareness and involve – this is new – the banking sector in order to explore the possibilities of blocking financial flows to these illegal sites. The Commission has recently had contacts with Febelfin. I think this is an interesting approach, rather than simply following these sites. The Commission also wishes to carry out a wide-ranging public information and awareness campaign to draw its attention to the dangers of playing on illegal sites, in order to channel players as much as possible to authorised sites. In this context, it is planned to act jointly with other authorities, such as the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u8	Minister, we had two choices: either to tax them or to prevent them from exercising. To prevent them from exercising, this may be in relation to Internet operators or to banks, which accept payments by credit card while it is prohibited in Belgium. I hear you're going to take care of things with your usual enthusiasm and energy, and I'm glad to hear that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u9	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Francken's 550013657C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u10	Madam President, Minister, you have kept your word and amended your policy statement and policy paper on the basis of a number of recommendations made. We have been able to take note of your policy statement and policy paper 2.0. What is good, especially for readability, is that you have given a clear overview of the recommendations you received and which have been adopted. That makes it easy for us, the opposition, to read. You note that the criteria used here were feasibility, affordability and compliance with the government agreement. These are two documents which have been communicated to Parliament, but which have not been voted on and which are therefore not binding. I think it is important, Minister, that it should not be limited to announcements and that Parliament should be given the opportunity to monitor effectively the further implementation of your policy statement 2.0 and policy paper 2.0. Hence my questions. Can you give me more information on the proper status of these documents? Will you take initiatives to translate the announcement into effective policies in these documents, because that should be the objective? If so, what will be the priorities, and will Parliament be involved beforehand? Will adequate financial resources be made available for these adjustments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u11	Madam President, Mrs Dillen, thank you for saying that I kept my word. That is also my ambition, even though it is not always easy in the case of the Justice Department. Last Wednesday, 3 February, the committee would arrange work on the policy paper and policy statement 2.0. However, I have not yet received any feedback on this issue. Is it intended that the committee members should confine themselves to asking oral questions, or will the committee consider this as a separate item on the agenda? I shall, of course, go along with what you have proposed. My policy statement and policy paper 2.0 are not at all non-binding documents. The recommendations included are for me also concrete commitments which I will make and for which I will, of course, also provide the budget where necessary. The cabinet is busy with the administration at the moment. The EUR 125 million that is being divided into the projects in which we want to invest this year. At the time of the budget check, we will then publish those amounts. I therefore hope to have a good debate in committee on this. This will also show that there will also be money for additional recommendations. The answer to the question on the status of documents can be found in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. That is, of course, a matter for Parliament. If possible, I would certainly like to ask for a vote on this. I'm not ashamed or shy about that. Perhaps I can even convince some opposition people to vote in favour eventually, for example by taking certain recommendations into account. There too, I will take full account of Parliament's wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u12	Madam President, last week I did not understand from the discussion in committee that we would be discussing it separately in committee. Of course, I would not have asked this question. Your answer is clear. I understand that we can still have a discussion about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u13	Then we need to discuss that point again during the course of the work. We did indeed refer to the order of business last week, but the Rules of Procedure require that there is actually no separate vote possible. Some members also pointed out that a budget table would have to be attached. We can arrange this at a later date in our committee. Then we can have a debate on this, but our Rules of Procedure do not seem sufficient for a formal vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u14	Madam President, Minister, many actors in the field, mainly lawyers, are asking me to draw my attention to a problem common to all judicial bodies in our country, which relates to measures relating to the fight against covid-19 in courts and tribunals. The wearing of the mask seems to be respected and widespread. On the other hand, according to several lawyers at different bars, the overcrowded presence in courtrooms would be problematic. Apparently, it is not uncommon for the number of people to be far exceeded and, in so doing, the measure relating to social distancing is not respected. The same problem would arise in prisons. This is not about visits by family members, but about visits organized between detainees and their lawyers. Minister, I have no doubt that steps have been taken to ensure compliance with health measures. However, are you aware of the difficulty of enforcing social distancing in courts and tribunals, but also in the context of visits by lawyers to prisons, which puts all actors at risk? If so, what measures have you suggested or have you taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u15	Colleagues, in general, our justice, an essential service in a rule of law, has been well reorganised so that the health crisis does not detract too much from its functioning. The health crisis has even made it possible to speed up digitisation in several areas, although unfortunately we must remain very modest at the moment if we are to talk about digitisation of justice services. But I note, for example, the use of the e-deposit system, which you know. Today, 25% of cases initiated by lawyers go through this system. A few years ago, I think there was no digital introduction. This is a step forward, but much remains to be done. In general, the measures are well respected. I can see that myself when I make on-site visits. The examples you identify are some of the exceptions that confirm the rule. An individual incident can never be excluded. But clear instructions and procedures are in force and their correct application is strictly controlled. I will differentiate my answer depending on whether it concerns courts and tribunals or correctional institutions. I'll start with the courts and the courts. Both during the first confinement and during the second, continuity of service has always been guaranteed with respect for the health and safety of employees and visitors. Nevertheless, there are some differences. During the first wave, there was talk of total containment. The College of Courts and Courts has defined a more stringent framework, i.e. that emphasis has been placed on the continuation of urgent cases, youth and family cases, criminal cases and appearances of detainees with the use of written procedure and videoconferencing to the extent possible and on the postponement of non-emergency civil cases. The College issued the binding directives on the safety measures to be respected, intended for all the heads of corps on 16 March, 18 March and 16 April last year. These guidelines are available on the College's website. With regard to these measures, the College provides only a general framework. However, the practical organization of hearings and visits to judicial buildings is specifically determined by local management committees, since the situation is very different from one building to another. The framework that prevails in the second wave, with partial confinement, is based on the assumption that all cases are dealt with, provided that the heads of bodies decide locally how and to what extent the hearings can continue according to the health, safety of employees and visitors, as well as the availability of magistrates and judicial personnel. Lawyers and litigants have also been informed. In summary, the most important measures (which can still evolve according to government measures) are: social distancing, protective equipment, signage in judicial buildings, teleworking where possible, electronic filing of exhibits and finally optimisation of hearings. The latter takes up the following points: video hearings, avoiding transfers of detainees, only urgent hearings during confinement, limiting the number of persons present during hearings by working with time zones and written procedures. The Justice FPS once made available surgical masks and reusable masks. Next, the College of Courts and Courts provided protections such as plexiglas screens for courtrooms and transplants, disinfectants, gloves, etc. Technical assistance and equipment were provided to the courtrooms for communication between the parties and the interpreters. Additional video conferencing equipment and laptops were provided for telework. Unfortunately, the number of laptops was too limited to make one available to everyone. As a result, some entities have had to work either on a rotational basis from home or with service exemptions where safety measures could not be complied with in the workplace. With regard to prisons, the rights of the defence have been guaranteed since the beginning of the crisis. Lawyers have never been denied access and are required to comply with the instructions in force: distancing, cleaning the parlors and aeration after each use, presence of hydro-alcoholic gel, wearing a mouth mask when social distancing cannot be respected. If the lawyer does not have a mouth mask with him, he will be provided with one. The recent strengthening of the mandatory wearing of the oral mask will, however, require an adaptation of the current instructions where necessary in prisons. Plexiglas bulkheads are provided at the table and when the inmate is contaminated with the coronavirus and the lawyer nevertheless wishes to talk to him, a visit behind the tile is also possible. The measures in prisons are strict, but they are in everyone's interest. These measures may, in a busy period, lead to longer waiting times than usual for talking to inmates. Prisons are doing their utmost to operate as efficiently as possible under difficult conditions. In terms of professional contacts with courts and tribunals, videoconferencing can replace physical contact. In the case of hearings, it is up to the president of the court to decide whether they can be held by videoconference. It may also decide not to hold a hearing in the prison and to allow a lawyer to present the detainee. During prison hearings, the rules on social distancing, hand hygiene and mandatory wearing of the mask apply. When contamination is detected in a prison, contact tracing is immediately initiated. High-risk contacts are listed and these persons, including external professionals and lawyers, are contacted as soon as possible. All the necessary protective equipment is present in prisons, there is no shortage. Clear instructions and procedures have been established for staff, inmates, visitors and external professionals. All information is available on the Intranet and is kept up to date. For visitors, instructions are clearly displayed within each institution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u16	Minister, thank you for your full answers. I note that you are attentive to the situation and that the means are available to minimize the inconveniences associated with this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u17	Madam President, Minister, today we are in the vaccination phase. First of all, it is gratifying that, according to the figures available to me, only 3.6 per cent of the total prison population in our country has been positive, since the beginning of the pandemic, 381 of the 10,500 inmates being positive controlled. You have just mentioned all the measures taken in prisons to try to limit the spread of the virus. These figures support your comments. So we are now in the vaccination phase. There are, of course, questions about this. The country as a whole is in the process of organizing itself for the massive implementation of vaccination. In particular, there is a specific question of the situation of prisons. Minister, will the prison world occupy a special place in the vaccination schedule? If so, what is planned in terms of the timing and implementation of this vaccination? If prison facilities are not subject to special measures, how will the vaccination of prisoners be part of the general vaccination process? Are there special provisions for staff working in correctional institutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the vaccination schedule is concerned, this is a dynamic in which the proposals are agreed within the vaccination task force and the commissariat corona. It is then the Ministers of Health meeting in the Interdepartmental Commission (IMC Health) that validate the proposal of the Task Force on Immunization. The prison administration is involved in the latter's discussions and can therefore defend its position, explain its working methods. Pending final decisions, the administration prepares procedural manuals based on experience in nursing and nursing homes. It also remains in constant contact with Empreva, the central unit of the Joint Internal Service for Prevention and Protection at Work of the Belgian Federal Public Administration, on personnel-specific issues. A priori, no specific infrastructure will have to be set up within the institutions, but this has yet to be verified in the context of the final drafting of the procedural manuals. This will also depend on the type of vaccine received and its conservation method. At present, the intention is to give priority to the "vulnerable detainees" sections of Merksplas and Saint-Hubert, to the social defence institution of Paifve in its entirety, as well as to the covid sections of the prison of Bruges and Lantin which I visited a few weeks ago, and to the care centre of the prison of Saint-Gilles. In these sections, vaccination would involve both prisoners, surveillance personnel and medical personnel. This position was communicated by the Belga Agency today at 12:59 p.m. You can see that I am the situation very carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answer. I realize that it is not easy to organize this vaccination in prisons. It is important that the dynamics of these are integrated into the entire decision-making chain in a structured way. It would indeed be a shame to miss this stage, while the previous ones have rather succeeded quite well at the level of the prisons, but we will of course remain attentive to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u20	Madam President, Minister, as you indicated in your policy statement, the construction of Haren Prison should be completed under this legislature. To my knowledge, the intention that has always been displayed was to transfer all prisoners and detainees from Brussels prison, that is, the prison which brings together the three sites of Forest, Saint-Gilles and Berkendael, these three sites being no longer used as a prison. More and more insistently, however, is circulating information that certain parts of the site would eventually remain exploited after the move to Haren. There are precedents in this area. For example, the construction of the new prison in Marche-en-Famenne, which was supposed to close the establishments in Namur, Huy and Dinant, did not have this effect and these prisons were finally kept open, raising concerns in terms of prison inflation, since all studies show that the more prison places are increased, the more prisoners are increased. Minister, I know you're not fond of commenting on the rumors, but could you give us some official information about this? Will all the places at the three sites of the Brussels prison be closed during the transfer to Haren? If this were not the case, how many places would they remain open and for what specific use? More generally, how much do you estimate the number of places in prison in Belgium by 2024 if the masterplan continues as planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u21	Dear colleagues, the work of the Haren prison is progressing well and the current schedule foresees an opening in September of next year. On that date, it will be necessary to transfer the detainees present in Saint-Gilles, Forest and Berkendael to this new facility. The transfer of approximately 1,000 prisoners will take place in several months. Only then does the Masterplan prisons provide for the closure of other Brussels prisons. However, it is too early to give a timetable for this, as at the same time we are continuing to implement my ten-point plan which I have proposed to you in the context of combating prison overcrowding. As you know, the expansion of prison capacity is only one of the points of the plan. By 2023, detention centres will also be opened and short prison sentences will actually be carried out. This will have an impact on the inflationary spiral of penalties currently imposed. That is why I think it is too early to give timetables for the closure of the establishments. Mrs Hugon, with regard to your question about the places available in 2024, and still according to the current timetable of openings and closures, we should benefit from 439 additional places, to which must be added the transitional houses and the detention houses. The capacity of the prison of Sint-Gillis is 840 places, the prison of Vorst has 180 places and Berkendael has 64 places. Together it gives 1,084 places. The capacity of Haren will be 1,190 prisoners, a hundred places more so. What appointments have been made? The finality is, of course, that all prisoners of the existing prisons are transferred to the new prison. It is also intended to keep the duration of this transition as short as possible. From this point of view, operational aspects in particular will determine the order of shipment. As far as the move is concerned, a timeline has been drawn up for the recruitment of the new staff. The Haren site is located on the other side of Brussels compared to the current three sites. This has considerable consequences in terms of mobility, driving routes and so on. This means that the site becomes less interesting for some staff in the area of commuting. For other future staff, this can suddenly become interesting again. The move will thus generate a significant turn-over on staff. Wherever possible, attempts will be made to have staff who wish to mutate effectively. Discussions on operational mobility, in particular the accessibility of the site, are ongoing. Other agreements on posts, working time arrangements and the like are also ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answers. You confirm that the three Brussels sites will be closed as soon as all the detainees have been transferred to Haren prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u24	Madam President, Minister, in your answer to the previous question, you mentioned 840 places at Saint-Gilles Prison. In its annual report 2019, the supervisory commission of the Saint-Gilles prison recalls that this institution suffers from chronic overcrowding. It mentions a capacity of 579 places. Now, you've just talked about 840 seats. It appears that the official capacity of the prison in Saint-Gilles increased sharply in mid-2020: 261 additional official places would have been created there. This is a very substantial increase. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about this as well as about the conviction of Belgium aimed at regularizing the situation of overpopulation in Saint-Gilles and Forest. It was at the beginning of 2019, and it was planned to regularize within six months under penalty. Has Belgium been able to regularize the situation on time or has it actually paid periodic payments? If periodic payments were paid, for how long and for what total amount? Can you confirm the evolution of the number of places in Saint-Gilles? How can you explain it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u25	Madam President, dear colleague, in this case initiated by the Ordre des barreaus francophones et germanophone, a judgment was handed down in January 2019 by which the court condemned the Belgian State to reduce the number of persons detained in the prisons of Forest and Saint-Gilles to the maximum capacity authorized under penalty of periodic penalty payments. The penalty was therefore due if the number of persons detained exceeded the maximum capacity of the prison. It should be noted that the court had set a deadline and that periodic penalty payments were only due on March 7, 2020. Meanwhile, as my predecessor informed the commission at the beginning of March last year, work has been undertaken via the Régie des Bâtiments to increase the capacity of the prison by bringing the sanitary facilities of the cells into conformity. These have been partitioned in order to accommodate two inmates per cell or, in other words, to transform solo cells into duo cells, in compliance with CPT standards. The capacity figures for this institution have therefore changed steadily in 2020, depending on the progress of the work. The total capacity has thus finally been increased to 852 places (840 + 12 places at the medical centre) thus reducing the overcrowding to less than 2% currently. A prison visit was scheduled at the end of March 2020 to allow the Order to observe this increase in capacity on the ground, but this visit had to be cancelled. You know why. In view of the situation, the Order had suspended the demand for periodic penalty payments and it has not been reactivated since then. So far, the State has not paid any periodic penalty payments in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answer. It's clearer to me. These are work that has been done to bring the cells into conformity in order to accommodate two inmates instead of one. I understand the logic better. I would also like to thank you for the details of the periodic penalty payments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u27	Question No 55014003C by Mr Nabil Boukili is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u28	Minister, I come back today with a question of the utmost importance. For many years, the authorities have announced the opening of a CPL, the aim being to move the interns from Justice to Health. This project seems to be becoming more and more concrete and leads to a multitude of questions for ESD staff. We hear a lot of things, such as "Peifve would become a prison for prisoners" or "a closure would be considered for some work to be done there". You can imagine that within all the corporations present at the ESD, a concern is on all lips. At the high-level consultation meeting on 1 February 2021, the question of the future of Paifve was again asked. The response was that a study by the Régie des bâtiments was under way and that it also took into account the construction of the PLC. For us, it is important to try at all costs to phase out the work as quickly as possible to guarantee the reception of detainees directly during the migration of the internees to the PLC, in order to guarantee the officers the continuity of their place of work. Wing B represents an abandoned accommodation capacity. This additional capacity, after renovation, could make it possible to renovate all the wings, one by one. Minister, are you sensitive to the concern of the Paifve workers? What do you think of the idea of phase work so as not to lose additional capacity in the prison system and, more importantly, to preserve employment? What is the status of the study of the Régie des bâtiments? Will you position yourself in favour of the workers and ask the Régie des bâtiments to spread the work? Are you aware that this proposal for a solution would have a lesser impact because it would be diluted over time on the budget envelope of the Justice FPS? What will become of Paifve's medical staff when the PLC is built? What prospects do they have?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u29	Dear colleague, my predecessor's masterplan contains a chapter on internees, in which the construction of three additional centres for legal psychiatry (CPL) is planned in Alost, Wavre and Paifve. The Paifve PLC will be built right next to the current establishment, as described in the masterplan validated by the Council of Ministers and communicated in the past. The current social defence institution will no longer accommodate inmates in the future and will be transformed into a prison for prisoners. The existing facility will require significant renovation. In January 2019, a dossier was validated by the Council of Ministers to appoint a consultant to support the implementation of the PLCs. At the same time, it was decided to extend this mission by including a study mission for the renovation of the existing facility. After the study and drafting of the specifications, the Régie des bâtiments will launch the renovation project itself. Only then will the manner in which the work will be carried out, including its possible staggering, be included in the mission. The study referred to in your second and third questions will be included in the CPL study, which is still in its infancy. It is therefore too early to mention a timetable for work and its involvement in the work of staff or its budgetary impact. As far as the fate of staff is concerned, it is far too early to talk about it. Some of them are persons who work for the State under an enterprise contract. They are independent doctors and psychiatrists, who can easily be deployed elsewhere. We are, indeed, far from being in surplus at national level. The same applies to care team members and nurses, as well as supervisory and administrative staff, who are statutory staff. However, it is premature to establish scenarios for the temporary or permanent reassignment of existing staff to other prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u30	Minister, I listened carefully to your answers. I went to the Paifve site and met the workers there. I assure you that their concern is very great, in the absence of a clear answer to their situation. What will their future be? The average age of the staff is over 50 years, these people are usually at the end of their career and moving them to all corners of Wallonia would be complicated. I think they are entitled to have a clear answer as soon as possible about their future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you have asked me four detailed questions about the victims of terrorist attacks. This includes the follow-up to the recommendations of the commission of inquiry, Life4Brussels, the one-stop shop and the victims of the attacks at Zaventem airport. These questions could indeed be joined and answered with one answer, especially since I have already given many specific answers in this committee in recent months. Soon five years have passed since our country was hit by terror (32 dead and hundreds of victims). It still affects us as much. In the meantime, we have learned a lot. A parliamentary commission of inquiry produced a 1,000-page report with an important section on victims. The previous government has taken steps in this regard. Of course, this is not the end of the case for many victims. There is still the great trial of assizes on the attacks that can only be started after the French trial of the Bataclan. Life-long injuries have been inflicted on many victims. The latter are at the centre of my policy, but also of that of my colleagues who are competent in this field, as is also the case with victims of sexual or domestic violence. Soon after I took office, my office saw and heard the V-Europe and Life for Brussels victim associations. I know there are still a lot of injuries. I am, of course, at the disposal of Parliament to reflect further on the reception and accompaniment of victims. But judging by your questions, you seem to assume that I am organising the work of the Committee on Justice, which is not the case. You know that the Prime Minister responded, on behalf of the government, to the letter from the Speaker of the House, in which the Speaker raised the question of follow-up to the recommendations of the Attentats Commission of Inquiry. The Government proposes to discuss this issue in the relevant committee(s) on the basis of a report to be submitted to the House in the near future. I am therefore open to this exchange of views. Let me turn to your four questions. The last one concerns the victims of the airport. Needless to say, the federal government is committed to all victims – especially those of terrorist attacks. The fact that insurance companies intervene in the first place and that the government bears the costs in the alternative means that the companies must first be called upon to contribute to the costs incurred. However, the Commission for financial aid is also involved in medical costs up to a certain ceiling, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. The problems that these victims still face, including insurance and reimbursement of medical expenses, are key issues for the government. In this regard, I also refer to the general policy note of the Minister of Economy: "A pragmatic solution will be sought so that, in the event of a terrorist attack, all victims can be compensated regardless of the location of an attack and the means used, using an efficient and respectful procedure for the victims." As for the one-stop shop, it had been set up at the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, whose Victims Unit had been strengthened by the recruitment of three persons. The central window shows close cooperation that can be activated following a terrorist attack or major disaster, to provide – in the following weeks – a contact point or guide to the victims. This cooperation involves the National Victims Unit of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, the monitoring coordinators of the Communities and their competent departments. To this end, a protocol was signed on 22 May 2019 by the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Minister of Justice and the competent Flemish, Walloon, Brussels and German-speaking Ministers. On 10 December 2020, the College of Attorneys General issued Circular COL 21 explaining how the Single Window works. Finally, I have contacted Life for Brussels on my own initiative to consult with the members. The requests included an extension of the time limit for submission of an application. For the moment, for victims of terrorist crimes, the three-year period runs from the recognition of the attack by royal decree. These provisions differ from those applicable to victims of other crimes for which the three-year period is from the authority of res judicata. We are currently examining whether a legal solution can be found, given the deadlines reached in 2020. In my view, it is important that victims should be able to turn to a central location and that all information should be easily accessible. On the one hand, the central window has been set up for this purpose. On the other hand, I am working closely with the Commission on financial aid to develop a new website for all victims of violence. This must be clear and simple. Above all, it must explicitly tell victims how they can apply for financial assistance. In the long run, we would also like to make the application procedure fully digital for all types of crime victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u32	Minister, I will read the report very carefully. On the one-stop-shop, Ms. Glatigny indicated that the road map had been taken and that this window could be activated in the event of a new attack or a large-scale disaster, but it no longer targets victims of previous attacks when they face this problem. Among the recommendations of the commission of inquiry is the recommendation that Belgium should establish a system which, instead of offering subsidiary aid which obliges the victim to apply itself to public or private bodies responsible for indemnifying him, provides for the creation of a fund which will grant him, within the shortest possible time, aid and compensation, to recover what is owed by the insurance companies. Minister, I have met with victims of attacks, hence my questions. The heaviest part of their efforts is the fact that they themselves are confronted with insurance companies that are very demanding and require expertise across the country. One of the people I met had lost a leg and had difficulty moving around. However, she was obliged to make these assessments. She had to be confronted with the doctor-control while she was unable to work. The psychological aspect is also not taken into account. As a result, there are still a number of recommendations from the Board of Inquiry that are not being implemented. I will study your answers in detail with great interest and come back to you if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u33	Madam President, Mr Boukili, I refer to the answer given last week to Mr Aouasti's question. I could repeat this answer in its entirety, but I believe there would be little added value. However, I can add the following. I note that reference is often made to the law of 29 July 1934 prohibiting private militias. Mr Aouasti referred to this. Justice is doing its job against violent groups, as I said last week. Justice investigates whether the law has been violated and prosecutes members of these groups, whether from Sharia 4 Belgium or Bloed, Bodem, Eer en Trouw. The entire legislative arsenal is being used. However, if the law on private militias is invoked, I would like to temper our enthusiasm. To date, the Private Militia Act has resulted only in the conviction by the criminal courts and the prohibition of two organizations, the Vlaamse Militanten Orde (VMO) and the Front de la jeunesse (FJ). This is legislation that was specifically enacted in the 1930s to address a particular problem but has since proved difficult to use. In recent years, several discussions have taken place in Parliament on the possibility of banning groupings. I am referring in particular to a bill by Mr Vanvelthoven, who is no longer present in Parliament. Several proposals to expand the law on private militias for this purpose have been put forward, but none have been passed in the end. The reason for this is that the delimitation of this prohibition vis-à-vis constitutional rights and freedoms, the right of association and assembly, to cite only these two freedoms, is particularly delicate. The situation is therefore different from France. Mr Boukili, you're always asking me if I'm going to use my right to a positive injunction. In States governed by the rule of law like ours, it is an extremely exceptional instrument. The last time it was used was in 2008. It is my predecessor, Jo Vandeurzen, who used it, it seems to me in the case of police officer Kitty Van Nieuwenhuysen who was killed. One of the suspects was released at that time for procedural misconduct and the Minister of Justice claimed his right to a positive injunction. Mr Boukili, every week you ask me if I will use this right. I'll joke a little about saying that, in a communist rule of law, which you may have in mind, it would be less exceptional. But you will understand that as a minister, I am not going to make use of it in an individual case. Imagine I'm using a negative injunction to say we have to stop. There is the rule of law, Mr. Boukili! I think you believe it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u34	Minister, when I speak of your right to a positive injunction, it is not in contradiction with the rule of law, since the Constitution and the law allow you to do so. On the other hand, when I proposed it to you, it was not for individual cases, it was about facts that concerned institutions. I proposed it to you on the issue of the police officers who made the video containing racist statements, and it is indeed the police as such. I wanted to shed light on these issues and not abuse your power. I do not want to live in a society in which the executive imposes its vision on justice or any other independent power. In that case, there was some seriousness and a federal institution was involved. For this question, by referring to the law on militias, is it normal in a democratic country for citizens to organize themselves and undergo paramilitary training? If the law makes it possible to shed light on this and to see what is wrong in this matter, can we not use this power? This has nothing to do with a threat to democratic rights. When your predecessor used it in 2008, he did not question the rule of law, but there was a social need to use it. It is in this context that I ask you, not to trample on the rule of law. Far from it! It is not my vision of a democratic society or my wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u35	Madam President, Minister, I would like to endorse the last words of my colleague, who are, moreover, very reassuring. Minister, I do not know how many good friends you have left who sometimes go politically wrong. However, if that is the case, you will undoubtedly also have people in your immediate vicinity who have contracted some Twitter or Facebookban because they have wronged themselves to something that according to the algorithm of the big social media giants is inaudible. There is, of course, no question of a court ruling to that effect. On the contrary, it is a technical procedure that is going through. Such a ban can be appealed against, but most social media giants can only do so in English. That means de facto that there is a language barrier that is there for everyone. In addition, however, there is also a social barrier. It goes without saying that those who do not have English as their mother tongue and who also have limited language skills are excluded from the procedure. There is a term for this, namely discrimination. I questioned your colleague, Pierre-Yves Dermagne, Minister for Consumer Affairs. He agrees with me that language can deter people from appealing. When it comes to freedom of expression, it is problematic. Your government has rather high expectations about the Digital Services Act in the EU scaffolding, which contains points that are very important for clarity. However, it could be expected that the European Union would like to see speakers of all the official languages within the European Union treated and treated equally. I could therefore suspect that the Digital Services Act would include an obligation for the large online platforms to give citizens the right to express themselves in their own language and to appeal against any sanctions imposed against them. That obligation is lacking in what is currently on the table of that DSA. I would also like to point out that the social media giants I am talking about have a de facto monopoly. It's not just about this. If you do not want to get your 100 grams of young cheese from a shop, you can pick it up in the street next door. There are different rules. Options are de facto non-existent for citizens. With regard to language discrimination in appeal procedures of the monopoly-possessing social media, I have the following questions. Firstly, do you agree with me that citizens have a fundamental right of freedom of expression in their own language and should be able to defend their opinion in their own language, so not only express it but also defend it when it is expressed in their behaviour? If so, what do you intend to do as Minister of Justice to ensure that this right is respected? Will you argue at European level for an adaptation of the Digital Services Act to this effect? Article 3 of this DSA gives the user the right to address the Digital Services Coordinator of the country where he is staying. Can you confirm that the Belgian Digital Services Coordinator will use the three national languages?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u36	Madam President, Mr De Roover, I am not yet banned from Facebook and Twitter, but I am blocked here and there, but that is another matter. Your questions generally relate to respect for fundamental rights, including the right to freedom of expression under the Digital Services Act. As I have said before, I believe that the DSA should provide an opportunity to create an ambitious, effective and proportionate legal framework for regulating the moderating of content on digital platforms, in order to ensure the protection of public order, as well as freedom of expression. For an answer to your specific questions, I would like to start with Article 30 of our Constitution. We are both committed to that Constitution, even though it concerns the protection of our fundamental freedoms and rights. Article 30 reads as follows: "The use of languages spoken in Belgium is free; it cannot be regulated except by law and only for acts of public authority and in court cases." So far there is neither a provision at European level nor at national level which entitles citizens or consumers to express themselves in their own language or in a national language in the context of a commercial relationship or in relation to an economic actor. At present, the only way to challenge the removal of a publication from a social network in English is in accordance with Belgian legislation from the point of view of economic law and consumer law, but also with Article 30 of our Constitution. The principle that prevails is the freedom of language in relations between individuals. Any specific obligation in this respect should be explicitly laid down in a law or regulation. Nevertheless, like my colleague from Economy, I confirm that the unique ability to challenge the removal of a publication of social networks in English may discourage some users from exercising their rights. As far as I am concerned, it is essential that every citizen can appeal in his own language. Let me just tell you in which story mechanisms the famous act currently provides. Firstly, the alternative dispute resolution mechanisms referred to in Article 18 should be used in at least one official language of the European Union. Secondly, according to Article 43, the user should be able to address his or her complaints directly to the Digital Services Coordinator in the country where he or she lives and thus in his or her national language. Thirdly, the user can also turn to our national courts in his or her own language. In reply to your second question, I would like to highlight two issues which deserve particular attention. Firstly, are the redress mechanisms laid down in Articles 18 and 43 sufficient to meet the requirement that each citizen has an effective right to redress in his or her own language? Secondly, would an obligation to use all the national languages present in the EU, given the importance and influence of the large platforms, be necessary, appropriate and proportionate in relation to the very large platforms? These issues are currently under consideration and will, if necessary, be the subject of concrete proposals for adaptation in the framework of the European negotiations. In reply to your third question, I can inform you that the National Coordinator for Digital Affairs has not yet been appointed at Belgian level. Nevertheless, it will obviously be necessary to consider whether it is possible for each citizen to use this national coordinator in one of the national languages. Finally, I would like to stress that the famous act is a transversal instrument that affects many competences and for which consultation with several of my colleagues is essential, particularly as regards respect for fundamental rights. All these provisions are therefore thoroughly analysed by all concerned federal and federated administrations in order to ensure that an appropriate balance can be found. In the end, these analyses should make it possible to determine a consolidated Belgian position which will be defended in the European cenacles. In any case, I would like to thank you for raising the issue of the language barrier. This will have to be taken into account effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u37	Minister, in your reply, I do have an atmosphere of possible cooperation in this area between us. I will certainly come back to this. That decision must take place at some point. For example, the law on commercial practices did indeed contain obligations on language, in particular on labelling to provide sufficient information to consumers, in particular on the presence of substances that can cause health problems for people. Then it is important to be informed in one's own language. But I believe that that provision was at least thinned out or even sacrificed on some European altar. So we have to be careful about that. I find it very interesting that you refer to the obligation to communicate in at least one language of the European Union. This means that there is a language requirement, only this requirement states that it cannot be done in Chinese. It is therefore possible to impose language requirements. If one can force one language, then I also think there is room to make it compulsory for everyone to have access to their own language. The whole idea that language requirements could not be imposed is actually falsified by the example you have given. That is undoubtedly a crowbar to go further on this point. I look forward to the following initiatives and will ask you again about them in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic379x.u38	We have not heard from Mrs Matz, so her question No. 55014044C expires. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht 55013757C by Mrs Jadin lapses. Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55013763C) by Mr Moyaers and No. Mr Francken's 55013675C were postponed.
