ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u1	Minister, neonicotinoids have been banned in the European Union since 2018. It is a very long-lived substance that freezes on flower pollen and can contaminate an entire bee colony if one of them brings this insecticide back into the hive. Bees are known to be at risk, which is very serious given the fundamental role they play in pollination of flowers and seeds. Derogations from the request of States are possible to allow the use of neonicotinoids and so you have recently, for the third time, requested a derogation so that beet growers can use them. Indeed, they suffer losses ranging from 30 to 50 % due to aphids and they are already struggling to recover their costs since the disappearance of the beet quota within the European Union. You have told the press that you do not wish to react to this new request for derogation because, in your opinion, "this would be a purely administrative and non-political decision". On the contrary, the issue seems to be political in view of the many reactions of environmental and biodiversity protection associations, but also of Écolo, your coalition partner to the Region and the federal government, who does not support these derogations. Last year it was your colleague Denis Ducrame who announced that he would probably grant the last derogations. No wonder you didn't want to make it a debate given this context! At the PTB, we believe that this situation illustrates the market impasses in providing quality food to the population and decent incomes to farmers. Your derogations only push back the farmers' problem. In the long run, it will be necessary to put an end to these products while at the same time guaranteeing income that allows these farmers to live. But the big sugar groups are pulling beet prices down to the detriment of farmers' incomes and our health at all. I would also like to point out that, since the end of 2020, the richest man in Belgium is none other than Eric Wittouck, who has built his fortune of more than 10 billion euros thanks to the sugar industry. What makes the farmers unhappy makes the industrialists happy! Are you going to commit to putting an end to neonicotinoid exemptions? If so, when? We hope it will be in 2022. What are you advocating as an alternative to insecticides to protect the crops of beet growers and guarantee them a decent income?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u2	Mr President, honourable Member, I always support measures to protect the environment, in particular bees, against the impact of plant protection products. Without being able to use neonicotinoid-treated seeds, beet producers will, as things stand, resort to foliar treatments by other insecticides. Unlike neonicotinoids, the insecticides authorised for this purpose have not yet been assessed by the application of the EFSA guidance document on the risk assessment of plant products for bees. It is only after scientific risk assessment, in accordance with this guidance document, that it will be known whether these products are more harmful to bees than the treatment of seeds with neonicotinoids. In line with this, the European Commission had asked EFSA in 2020 to assess whether these emergency authorisations were justified, due to a risk to crops that could not be contained by any other reasonable means - the only exception provided for by European legislation. In the 17 cases corresponding to the 17 countries which granted in Europe the same derogation as Belgium from the imidacloprids in the coating of sugar beet seed, EFSA concluded that emergency authorisations were justified, either because no alternative method or product (chemical or not) is available today - we do not have an alternative today, Mr Member - or because there is a risk that the harmful organism will develop resistance to the alternative products available. I am also in regular contact with the sector, which asserts that I am making progress in the search for more environmentally friendly and efficient alternatives. To both of your questions, I will reply that since the approval of the active substance - imidaclopride - has not been renewed at European level, it can be expected that in the future the available data will be insufficient to verify whether the plant product concerned will still meet the requirements for increasingly stringent authorisations. In these circumstances, the Committee for the Approval of Pesticides for Agricultural Use is of the opinion that it will not be possible to repeat this emergency measure for imidacloprid next year. So this is the last time. It's information you're the only one holding. Secondly, as you know, agricultural research is not a federal responsibility but is exclusively the responsibility of the regions. It is therefore my regional colleagues, sometimes quick to criticize me, who have the opportunity to find alternatives. I trust the beet sector to implement the most effective alternatives to fight the virus and its vectors. The deployment of improved sugar beet varieties for jaundice virus resistance seems to be a very promising option as many resistance genes have recently been identified. Resistant varieties would also have the advantage of efficiency and ease of implementation for farmers, without any impact on the environment. This concerns the survival of a whole production chain but also of local users of quality products and eco-products, such as beet pulp used in animal feed. It is also a matter of guaranteeing the food sovereignty of our country for a product as basic and essential as sugar.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u3	Minister, thank you. If I synthesize a little what you told me, then it would be over for next year. That's a very good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u4	For the imidacloprid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u5	I understood, minister. I would be happy to communicate this to my colleagues at the regional level so that they can ask the relevant ministers the same question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u6	Mr President, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u7	Mr President, it is a very long five-page response. Perhaps it would be better if I provided my answers in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u8	That's perfect, otherwise we'd exceed the scheduled time. Mr. Loones, I take it that's why your reply is missing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u9	Not yet, but I will be very brief. Thank you, Minister, for your written reply. That was actually my intention. I had even submitted this question as a written question earlier, namely on 5 February 2021. However, due to circumstances, the answer had still not come to me. It's nice that this is the case now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u10	Minister, there are some for each area: consulting for companies, self-confidence workshops, sentimental advice – coaches are everywhere! According to the International Coaching Federation, their number has increased by one third in five years. However, in 2015, the coaching market already weighed 25 million euros. This figure has therefore more than probably increased since then. It is not for me to judge the effectiveness of the proposed methods, which in any case vary greatly from one professional to another and in which, we must admit, many of our fellow citizens find answers to legitimate questions or, at the very least, comfort. However, other practices sometimes raise questions. The press echoes this at regular intervals. An explanation for these problems may lie in the fact that it is not necessary to carry any degree in order to qualify as a coach. At the same time, however, there are many trainings and certifications. In Belgium alone, there are some 40 schools. Admit that there is a hiatus there that does not help protect either customers or those who do this job properly. Minister, what is this activity in the Belgian economy? Do you confirm to me that this is the self-employed status that applies in this case? Do you have any data on how many people work with us? What about the recognition and control of their professional skills?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u11	Since the profession of coach is not a regulated profession, everyone is free to declare themselves "coach" in multiple and varied activities and under different statutes. As you mentioned, this trade is very heterogeneous and consists of nutrition, vocational guidance, sports, etc. Furthermore, no specific NACE code has been established for the exercise of this activity by an enterprise. As a result, the SPF Economy does not have official statistics to count the number of coaches. Nor can it assess the turnover generated by this activity on the Belgian market. The profession has many similarities with, among others, the professions of consultant, coach and advisor. An analysis of INASTI's detailed classification makes it possible to estimate the number of self-employed persons reporting this type of activity (consultant, coach or adviser) at 90,287. It should be noted that this figure is similar to an extensive interpretation of the coaching profession. Moreover, in so far as it is not a regulated profession, it may be exercised both as an independent, principal or complementary profession and as an employee within an undertaking. You refer to the possibility of regulating a profession through the regulation of conditions of access to the coach's title port, which usually involves training and the practice of an internship. Regulating a profession makes its exercise more strict and thus infringes the freedom to undertake. This restriction must be justified on legitimate and proportionate grounds. European law lays down a framework for this. The regulation of a profession is only possible and justifiable if it is necessary to achieve public interest objectives such as health protection, the protection of public order, public safety or, for example, consumer protection. Regulating a profession correctly is not a simple process and must be justified by a clearly demonstrated public interest imperative. Many elements must be taken into account. I'm going over a few of them here. First, the appropriate level of authority must be determined. Following the sixth reform of the State, the federal level is competent only for the conditions of access to health care professions and intellectual professions providing services. The professions of architect, accountant, tax adviser, real estate agent, surveyor, automotive expert and psychologist are now within my competence. If the coaching activity were not to be considered an intellectual service delivery activity, the regions would be competent to regulate it. The first step before adopting regulations is to properly define the profession in question. What are the conditions for access to be allowed to be a coach? What are the actions of these professionals and who would be reserved for them? The objectives of the regulation should also be clearly identified in terms of public interest. On the basis of the Law of 27 October 2020, a proportionality examination must be carried out prior to the adoption of a regulation. If a regulation is envisaged, the legislator must ensure that there are also enough routes to gain access to the profession. In particular, it must verify that sufficient official institutions provide training. Private training is not accepted. I understand, of course, your concern to ensure quality services for consumers. On the other hand, there are other ways to achieve this than by regulating the profession. Organisations bringing together professionals in the sector are free to set up certain mechanisms such as a label system to improve information about their profession. I will give you a small table showing the number of self-employed by occupation as of 31 December 2020. You will see that there are relaxation and recreation facilitators, sports facilitators, training counsellors, etc. to justify the 90,287 independents I've just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u12	Minister, thank you for this information and the data you provide me with on this subject. I will not fail to analyse them further, which will allow me to improve my knowledge of the subject and to determine whether we are actually facing a kind of white zone that may require clarification in the legislation, so as to protect not only patients who are victims of abusive practices but also all practitioners who perform their functions properly and with respect for those who turn to their knowledge in order to solve certain problems. I will come back to you, if necessary, on this subject and I do not exclude other initiatives on the basis of contacts with the professionals concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u13	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u14	Mrs Houtmeyers, I fully understand the concerns of the catering sector and have regular contact with their representatives. It goes without saying that limiting opening hours has an impact on the sector. This impact varies, of course, according to the profile of the establishments. The nightclubs and nightclubs, which had to close, have already been hit hard. The city cafes suffer from the limitation of opening hours. The Catering Federations have formulated requests for support and the different measures have been assessed on the basis of their budgetary impact and their benefits to the operators. In my reply on the measures taken, I have already mentioned a series of transversal measures that the fashion sector can benefit from. These include important measures such as the right of bridging, second pillar in case of a turnover loss of 40% until the end of the first quarter 2022, the double right of bridging in case of closure and temporary unemployment corona. Specific measures were taken to support the catering sector. I am thinking here of the reduction of the RSZ contributions for the fourth quarter 2021 for all mandatory closed sectors, including the discotheques, dance cafés, party halls and caterers, as well as the hospitality subsidies for the end-of-year premiums. The 66 million that the sector received in 2020 should not be repaid. The decision to limit the opening hours of the catering industry was taken by the Consultation Committee. Any decision to relax it should also be taken by the Consultative Committee. The next meeting of the Consultative Committee will take place on 22 December. I will ask the Consultative Committee to listen to the demand of the sector so that anyone who wishes can reserve a table to celebrate Christmas Eve and New Year until after 11 p.m. I'm aware that the dates of the parties are approaching, but I can't go any faster than the agenda that's been set.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There is indeed the limitation of opening hours, but at the same time the general public must be reassured by good communication. The measures caused a great deal of concern to consumers, resulting in a lot of cancellations in the catering industry. Still, more and more people go back to the restaurant. The public must know that they can do so safely and not be infected there. It remains very important to communicate that hotels and restaurants are not a source of contamination. I also hope for our restaurants that they can stay open after 23 o'clock on Christmas Eve, because it would be very sad if everyone were to be put at the door just before midnight.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u16	I would like to refer to the question tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u17	Mrs Houtmeyers, I fully understand that the sale of clothing has an indirect impact on the measures that limit the possibilities of excursions or events. We could also consider the indirect impact of teleworking. As far as my powers as Minister of Self-employed Affairs are concerned, I have obtained agreement from my colleagues in the government to reduce the percentage for the reduction of turnover for the second pillar's right of bridging from 65% to 40%, from 1 December. The text will be discussed by the Council of Ministers on Friday, but there is already an agreement on this measure within the nuclear cabinet. It should support all sectors not directly targeted by Minister Verdeinden's COOVID-19-KB but still suffer losses due to the COOVID-19 crisis and the closure of certain sectors. The fashion sector can also benefit from other measures. Until the end of the first quarter of 2022, the following measures shall apply: the double bridging right in the event of closure by the measures aimed at preventing COOVID-19 contamination, 6% VAT on the purchase of hydroalcoholic gel and mouth masks, temporary corona unemployment, deferred payment of VAT, company tax, etc. without delay, payment plans for the RSZ without penalties, no RSZ sanctions in the case of non-payment of advances, the possibility of individual distribution of the payment of taxes by the RSZ and the extension of the exemption from the premiums of the Regions, Communities, provinces or municipalities following COVID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u19	I would like to refer to the question tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u20	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers, the SDG Regulation builds on the principles of the e-stop shop of the Services Directive, but goes further and obliges Member States to ensure that users have full online access to the procedures set out in Annex II to the Regulation. The main challenge is to start, operate and close a company from that list. This procedure concerns the current branches of the business counters. The Administrative Simplification Service is the national coordinator for the SDG. Currently it is working on the creation of the unique electronic initiation forms mentioned in the administrative simplification chapter of the government agreement. Partly as a result of the interventions of my administration, the Administrative Simplification Service is aware of the impact on the role of business offices. Together with the Administrative Simplification Service and the Minister responsible for these services, the substantive consultation on the business counters will follow the first technical analysis currently under way on the content of the initiation forms. It is therefore too early to say what the impact will be on the business counters. I repeat what I said in my two policy papers. Digitising the procedure is important for administrative simplification, but it is not blissful. We must pay attention to the very small enterprises which are insufficiently skilled and do not have the necessary resources. Definitely permanent business outlets are an important central point of contact. Let us not forget that for a number of years the business offices have had electronic procedures for the procedures for which they are competent, such as the registration in the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises, the application of authorisations for out-of-work trade and professional cards and the registration of syndici. The personal contact with the employees of the counters in their offices or via telephone, mail, chat, video calls is and remains very important for those candidate entrepreneurs. This will also remain the case after the full roll-out of the SDG. Entrepreneurs will still need personal guidance. The online applications cannot always take into account all specific and personal situations. We must not widen the digital divide, a combination of online systems and personal guidance remains necessary. As soon as there is more clarity about the impact of the SDG on the role of the business window, it will be necessary to examine whether the conditions for recognition of the business window should be adapted. This could lead to an adjustment of their specifications. A study of the legal accounting framework applicable to the business premises is currently under way with the aim of formulating a proposal to adapt this framework in order to better assess the intrinsic profitability of the business premises in the medium term and to better respond to the impact on their financial viability of any normative change that directly or indirectly affects their financing. In addition, there is another study which will lead to proposals to assess and possibly improve the quality of the services provided by the business premises.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u21	Thank you, Minister. That is indeed a lot clearer. I am certainly looking forward to the follow-up when there will be more clarity on how exactly everything will happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic641x.u22	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55016120C, 55016139C and 55016155C by Mrs Goethals are converted into written questions.
