ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u1	Mr President, Madam Minister, State agents treat users without any discrimination, pursuant to Article 8, paragraph 1 (1) of the Royal Decree of 2 October 1937 on the status of State agents. This duty of neutrality, which is sometimes also called the duty of impartiality, is reflected in all statutes and it prohibits partisan or arbitrary behaviour. When he is in contact with the public in the course of his duties, the statute requires the federal agent to avoid any speech, attitude or presentation that would undermine the public's confidence in its total neutrality, jurisdiction or dignity. The regulations appear to postulate the prohibition of the wearing of beliefal signs in the federal public service (federal public services, public social security institutions, federal public interest bodies), in application of this duty of neutrality prescribed by the status of public servants and by the ethical framework. Therefore, can the Minister please let me know whether the existing regulatory bases permit strict compliance with the duty of neutrality and, therefore, the prohibition of the wearing of signs of conviction by public servants? If so, whether this prohibition applies to all agents (those in contact with the public and those in back office), and whether it is understood that all agents, statutory or contractual, are subject to it? Are there any exceptions in practice, despite this legislation and, if so, can they be quantified?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u2	Dear colleague, I confirm that the duty of neutrality is part of the rights and duties enshrined in the "Camu Statute" you are quoting (Royal Decree of 2 October 1937). It is therefore effectively regulated. As expressly stipulated in the second paragraph of article 8 of the "Camu Statute", it is "when in the course of his duties he is in contact with the public that the official avoids any speech, attitude or presentation that might undermine the public's confidence in his total neutrality, competence or dignity". In other words, the wearing of signs reflecting personal convictions by federal government officials is not allowed to agents in direct contact with the public during the performance of their duties, such as counters, controllers, inspectors and customs officers, etc. This is not about back office agents. The statutory provisions of the Statute on rights and obligations apply directly to appointed staff and trainees, but not directly to contract workers. It is through the working regulations of the organizations of the federal administrative public service that these ethical obligations are referred to. This therefore also applies to contract workers. In practice, it is the responsibility of senior officials and supervisors to ensure that staff members respect the obligations and values set out in the Staff Regulations. Disciplinary proceedings may be instituted against officials who do not respect their rights and duties. It is then up to the disciplinary body to assess whether and how certain acts should be punished. Finally, I can inform you that there is no category of personnel excluded from the application of these ethical principles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u3	I thank the minister for her extremely clear answer. I take it that the wearing of convictional signs is not prohibited for officials who are not in contact with the public and that this obligation also does not apply to contract workers, being reserved for statutory employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u4	No. The status applies to the Statutory. Contractors are subject to the same regulations through the labour regulations. These ethical obligations are therefore applied to both statutory and contractual obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u5	Thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u6	Mr President, Minister, normally I could refer to my written question, but I do not, because it is my first question that I may ask you. The question dates back some time ago. In the meantime, you have undoubtedly taken note of the pension reform plan of Minister of Pensions Karine Lalieux. When I learned about these plans, I did not hear much about civil servants' pensions. That is why I would have liked to ask you a number of questions. You are competent for civil servants' pensions. Have you been consulted directly or through her administration by the Minister of Pensions, Karine Lalieux? Has the reform proposals for civil servants' pensions been taken into account, which you are undoubtedly considering in the light of the government agreement? What initiatives will you take to reform civil servants' pensions in accordance with the government agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u7	Mr President, Mr Van der Donkt, I am not responsible for civil servants' pensions. Maybe that's weird. The Minister of Pensions Lalieux is exclusively competent for all pensions, including civil servants. That is a brief explanation for the fact that neither myself nor the FOD BOSA for which I am responsible have been consulted on the plans of Minister Lalieux for pension reform. Minister Lalieux's competence for pensions concerns all public services, the public sector, so much wider than the federal administrative public office for which I am responsible. This means that the plans of Minister Lalieux, which are now on the table, will be discussed with the government parties. The process is ongoing, but we do not yet have any further details on it and I cannot yet tell you the conclusions of this today. Anyway, thank you for your relevant question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u8	Madam Minister, I may have a problem right now, because I had two more questions for you and predict that I will get the same answer. Your answer surprises me, because I had already asked the same questions to Minister of Pensions Lalieux, both about civil servants and self-employed people. I then got the answer that I had asked the wrong minister. Unfortunately, there is only one minister for pensions. So now I can't bother you with my questions. All madness on a stick, I know now that I should only address Minister Lalieux with questions about pensions, and if she tells me again that I am at the wrong address, I will refer to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u9	In July, you replied to my question about the reintegration of long-term ill officials that the current system does indeed offer little opportunity and you are working on a reform of the measures based on recommendations. Its aim is to provide better guidance and greater opportunities for successful reintegration. That's what's needed. At that time, I complained that far too little is being done in this area, while many officials would not prefer to go back to work, possibly with adapted work. They do not want to be left to their own devices and are certainly not sent with a sickness pension. The theme of reintegration in the long-term sick would be part of the consultation in the B Committee for a new sectoral agreement. That is a good thing, because for an effective policy on reintegration and resumption of work after long-term illness, it is obviously important to bring everyone along. All stakeholders have an interest in ensuring that long-term sick people can get back to work as soon as possible and feel good about their work. Where are you on the evaluation of the current measures and on the reform of the current system of reintegration? Could you draw any conclusions? If so, which one? The government is working on a reintegration plan. A great deal is already known about the part for which Minister Vandenbroucke is responsible. Minister Dermagne has not yet presented his part of the plan to Parliament, but he is working on it. In addition, there is also your share. What exactly is that made up of? When are you going to propose this to Parliament? I have heard that there is a displeasure in the Committee B, because the discussion on reintegration measures would not be very concrete. Important files would have been removed from the agreement and only vague sheets would remain without the possibility of taking concrete measures. Do you share that analysis? When will you link back to the social partners to find a solution? Will you leave the social partners the room to make specific proposals themselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u10	Madam Minister, on 7 July last, you stated in committee that the system of reintegration does not always lead to the desired results and that everything would be considered critically. The aim of the analysis was to formulate recommendations on the adjustment of the proposal, to identify and eliminate certain regulatory thresholds and to pursue a coherent policy of resumption of work. It would also examine what improvements could be made in all areas and identify actions that could be taken during the absence of an official concerned and in consultation with him or her. In short, an offer is made to the official concerned with the aim of increasing self-reliance in order to achieve successful reintegration. You added that in a short time you could not give an update on the disability managers, as this implied a survey of the various FPS. You didn't have that data at the time. The government is also planning a reform to bring long-term sick back to work, and has now decided to introduce sanctions to boost reintegration and flow. Questionnaires are reviewed, routes upgraded, everyone responded and, if necessary, will even be fined. Alternative sanctions may also be proposed. There are also possible sanctions for the companies on the table. What conclusions and recommendations gave the critical view of existing measures and their reforms? What thresholds have been identified? In what way will they be eliminated? What improvements are possible in terms of support? What are the possibilities of taking steps to ensure successful reintegration during the absence of the project, in conjunction with those already involved? What offer is made to officials to increase self-reliance? Could you, if necessary, give an update on the disability managers already? What concrete measures do the planned reforms include for federal officials and public services? Are sanctions also on the table for public services?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u11	The well-being of the civil servants is at my heart. Re-integration is and remains an important issue. It is also a complex theme that requires the vision of different stakeholders. As far as prevention is concerned, there is the Federal Mental Force Plan, which will have a further phase. Employers, occupational health services and Medex, among others, are working to promote the health of civil servants. Prevention will continue to receive my full attention. In addition, action is needed to promote the reintegration of those who are still failing. At the moment, my services are working on measures in different areas. These are improvements to regulation, which should provide more opportunities for officials involved in training, guidance, coaching and mobility during and after a period of illness, and the review of current systems, for example on part-time work. In terms of support, we will also take steps with the federal government to implement, by analogy with the private sector and the health insurance funds, the system of the back-to-work coordinator. In addition, the services provided by the Career Centre will be extended to offer career guidance and, where appropriate, review options. Finally, we also provide for improvements in communication, information flow and cooperation between the different actors. All these measures are in the pipeline and of course you will have understood that from the budgetary debate - a budgetary impact. I am going to answer questions about incentives - about the resources for the FPS, which absolutely must actively address reintegration, which will speed up the plans that lie ahead. Mrs Lanjri, the proposals are also being discussed in detail with the social partners in order to arrive at a package of measures supported by all the parties concerned. I understand that there is concern and that questions are being asked, especially since the issue was once again very much in the media. We discuss in the social dialogue all aspects that may be relevant and work towards a common goal, in particular the better guidance of long-term sick people. That is my aim, that of the civil servants in question and that of the syndical organizations. I was gonna take some time. As the subject reached the press last week, I understand that you are now asking questions about it again. I prefer to do good work, which is sustainable than half work, which is decided in haste. I would like to reassure the social partners, and I hope that I will succeed in doing so. Ms Goethals, at the moment 38 federal officials have followed the training disability management, which was first offered at the RIZIV in 2016. That figure must be raised; we are undoubtedly in agreement on that. After completing the training, participants in the programme become members of the alumni association, where they continue to have contact with each other and exchange good practice. They also use, I hear, the network to discuss cases with each other, for example. The contacts we had with civil servants show that it is not clear to convert the basic principles of disability management into the workplace. That's a challenge. It is important that senior management support that sufficiently. In fact, we in the federal government see the same thing as in the private sector, which is just difficult. It is a challenge that we will take up again. We will certainly come back to this, because I think it is a very important project, just like you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u12	Madam Minister, my question was certainly not prompted by recent discussions, such as the budgetary negotiations. By the way, it had been filed a long time ago. The signals have reached me through the social partners. They are asking to be involved and to take many more concrete initiatives, because they think the proposals on the table are still too vague. You are now saying that you will take the time to put things into practice. Of course we give you that time, we are not allowed to do half the work. Specific adjustments must be made in consultation with the social partners. We cannot afford to run the business because it concerns officials, who are then left behind, because the government pays the wages within its envelope, even if they are not reintegrated. That's not the right mentality. We must make sure that these officials are able to get back to work and feel good. Of course, this applies to civil servants for whom this is possible. For example, reintegration is not possible during cancer treatment, but it is possible for many others. So far, far too little or no effort has been made at all. Re-integration existed on paper but less in practice. We need to work on that. Then a government works well and efficiently. It is not possible to send these officials to retirement, often with a very small pension, when we can use them and prefer to work them again. I will certainly come back to this once you have your more concrete plans, but feel free to discuss them first with the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u13	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. In the meantime, we do know you as someone who wants to work sustainably and do research first, before carrying out plans. I hear there's a lot in the pipeline and I'm very curious about the result. 38 graduate disability managers today is indeed far too low. It is very good that they meet in an alumni association, where they can keep in touch and discuss cases with each other. Even if the challenge is great, we must deal with it; we cannot be left behind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u14	Mr Van der Donkt, your questions cannot be seen separately and are best answered together. It is not possible to assess the sickness scheme separately from the sickness pension scheme. Those are two sides of the same coin. As regards the evaluation of the sickness pension scheme, there are regular contacts between the services of the FOD BOSA and the staff of, once again, the Minister of Pensions, on the challenges in this area. We are very conscious of Mrs Lanjri's reference just now to the fact that we should not leave long-term sick civil servants to their fate. There must be attention to what they can still do, taking into account their state of health. That mindshift is also part of the full return-to-work plan proposed by the government last week. Just moving people without any prospect, sometimes at a young age, to their medical pension, whose conditions are not always so good, is really a problem. I recognize that. We are currently working on a package of measures that will make it possible to adapt the work more and more, which is also in line with the question of the individual civil servant's tailor-made reintegration, taking into account what he can do earlier than what he can no longer do. This will have to be done by making adjustments in terms of work content, volume and/or working conditions. These challenges, as far as we are concerned, are quite similar to what is on the table at the level of the workers, assuming what people can do before what they can no longer do. I hope that I have answered enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u15	As far as the second question is concerned, that is a very plausible answer, Madam Minister. This must indeed be done, but people are often also trapped in their statute, which they do not get out of because otherwise they will even be at risk of losing their replacement income. My other question, however, was more specific. For Members of the Flemish Parliament, it has recently been decided that they fall back to 60% of their remuneration if they are disabled for a certain period of time. In fact, as Members of Parliament, we are also more or less civil servants. Is this arrangement being extended to civil servants? Do they fall back to 60% of their wages if they are long-term ill, as is the case with ordinary workers? I have not heard the answer to this question unless I have not listened properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u16	This is, of course, about much more than one element in the file. It's about the statute. It is about the differences between employees, self-employed and civil servants. I agree with you that, in the long term, we absolutely need to harmonise the different systems at all different levels, but it is dangerous to eliminate differences only for one element, while in five other areas there are other differences that are sometimes at the disadvantage of another system. You will forgive me if I do not wish to continue on an element because this reform must be done at the same time in the longer term and at different levels. That's what the coalition agreement says.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u17	You will find in us an ally for harmonization. We are also aware that this cannot be resolved quickly. It is also necessary to take account of acquired rights. This is a practical exercise that we must make certain in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u18	Mr President, I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u19	Mrs Vanrobaeys, there was a problem with the noise, but I understand that you referred to the question that was tabled. There is no need to publish a new letter on telework under the current corona conditions. I do not need to convince you that I am following the new developments in this area closely and that I will not fail to take additional initiatives if they prove necessary. The signals we are currently receiving from various federal government organisations are rather reassuring. I agree with you that they can change every day, I also read the newspapers. At the moment, however, the federal government organisations are being cautious about the corona measures and the well-being of the employees is being taken seriously. The FOD BOSA has also helped to provide training and guidance for employees and managers in the so-called hybrid work sector through the rapid switch to extended telework. The offer is accessible to all federal government services via the FOD BOSA website. As far as the structural framework is concerned, I can confirm that our services are working on a new general teleworking framework for federal officials, in particular with regard to matters such as remuneration and work organisation, but also, for example, deconnection. On 23 July 2021, the Council of Ministers approved a draft Royal Decree which anchors the right to deconnection in the Federal Staff Regulations and provides for consultation with the syndicated organisations within each federal government institution. The Royal Decree has already been discussed in the B Committee and is now before the Council of State for its opinion. I can also inform you that the current teleworking arrangements already provide that any official may, in principle, telework on an annual basis up to three fifths of his working arrangements, in consultation with the managers. Since 2017, it has been chosen not to express the share of teleworking in global working time per week, but on an annual basis. This made it possible to use telework more flexibly, for example in extreme weather conditions or in certain family circumstances. I would, however, like to make the point that within the general framework, each federal government institution can decide for itself on the introduction and further development of its own system of teleworking. This also means, for example, that any telework regulation may change over time, for example, following a planned relocation of a service. In addition, each organisation can also decide to provide satellite work within the telework approach, whereby people do not work at home but use office space in some hub. Your last question is not easy, because each organisation can develop its own telework policy within the general framework. In a June 2020 survey, more than 13,000 employees of the federal government were asked how many days they worked at home on average outside the corona period. Most, i.e. 75%, replied that this was not the case for a single day or a single day. I assume that experience during the last corona crisis will ensure that more institutions and staff will understand the usefulness, possibilities and also the benefits of teleworking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u20	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I attach great importance to a good framework for teleworking and I see progress being made in terms of remuneration, the right to deconnection and work organisation. Managers also receive training to deal with this. With regard to my last question, the possibility of teleworking on an annual basis up to three fifths does indeed offer some flexibility. Progress is being made. Especially when services move, people want to use telework to better reconcile family and work if they have to travel longer distances to work. Telework can be a means to keep experienced staff on board and to use them permanently for the service. Satellite work is not always possible, just because there are too few satellite offices. I would like to draw attention once again to the use of telework in such cases to keep people on board.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Goethals, you are going very widely. You will forgive me that I will therefore give a broad answer on the achievements and priorities we have in implementing the coalition agreement. First of all, I would like to say that every minister is responsible for improving the services of his or her department. That's what it starts with, of course. As Minister of Civil Service, I share those ambitions and will support them and try to improve the services of my own department. You know I'm specifically responsible for the FOD BOSA. For example, we have worked there to improve our selection procedures and to improve the efficiency of public procurement. For example, there is a plan to increase the participation of SMEs in public procurement. We know that this has been a weakness in the past. I am working on this together with the Minister for SMEs and the Prime Minister. We have a Federal Purchase Policy note that we will present to the Council of Ministers this year. It includes simplifying procedures and focusing more on sustainability, as well as focusing on SMEs. I would also like to refer to my colleague, the Secretary of State for Administrative Simplification, who is working on the Kafka plan included in the government agreement. I will give my full cooperation to this, where our powers touch each other. The three priority objectives which have been mentioned are all important within my policy. In terms of professionalisation, we have reformed the governance agreements, which we hope to strengthen the partnership between politics and the departments, and we have also tried to agree clear cross-cutting objectives. A leadership vision has also been developed to provide our leaders with the tools to flourish in the new reality. As far as telework is concerned, about which we have just spoken, the trend towards an average of two days a week per official will have an impact on the civil servants' work-life balance, with attention to deconnection. As far as personnel policy is concerned, we want to make the government the most attractive employer in the country. That is crucial and is not just a slogan that we have launched. This means that everyone must be able to find their way to the government and feel represented there. That is why we want to work on this selection model. We have bet on a new employee branding with a campaign Working for.be. In the beginning, we will focus very specifically on bottleneck professions. That too is a priority for the government, as you heard last week. In the federal government there are also bottleneck professions, for example in IT, but also in the medical sector. It's hard to attract these people to the federal government. We also want to address more diversity with measures for gender equality and people with disabilities, but also for people of a different origin. As far as rationalisation is concerned, the Procurement Service Centre will develop transversal services in the coming years and thus centralise more and more framework contracts. We believe that a transversal approach is a step forward. For me, the central task of the government is to provide social services, so to serve society. In the past, a number of issues have already been outsourced, such as catering, security and cleaning. Each member of the government must consider for his or her own department which tasks can best remain internal and which can be outsourced to private firms. There must be a healthy mix between internal and external expertise, where private knowledge can be used in the context of training, IT, legal support and general project management. The linear saving target was achieved. As the savings were applied to the 2021 appropriations and as part of the budget set-up 2022, it was decided to fix the additional fixed effort of EUR 150 million for the next three years, in accordance with the government agreement. That seems to me to be a sufficient effort, given the importance of a performing government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u22	Madam Secretary, I have very few comments or comments. I have received more than sufficient answers to the questions I have asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u23	Madam Minister, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u24	This too is a question that can be read quite comprehensively. I will answer them point by point, as you have approached them. For a concrete overview of the digital leap, I refer to the Secretary of State for Digitalization. In any case, we saw a rapid roll-out of the eBox digital mailbox, which now employs 300 % more citizens and 500 % more public authorities. So it really is going in the right direction. In addition, I will continue to stress the importance of focusing on the digital divide, or to put it positively: attention to digital inclusion. Officials must also pay attention to those who are not with us. Meanwhile, the federal government needs to keep saving. We touched that earlier. 150 million extra a year. We will accept this, not because of loss of quality, which is unacceptable, but because of digitisation and professionalisation. During the corona crisis, a number of opportunities emerged. For example, before the summer, we participated in a spending review on telework to see how the new reality, with lower capacity utilisation rates, can provide us with efficiency gains for, for example, our management of buildings, for the benefit of the Regie, but also of the FOD itself. We will also use the flexibility subscription system of SNCB, since people will now work in a hybrid situation. Those flexible subscriptions will certainly reduce the cost of commuting for people taking the train to work if they work more telework. The corona crisis has also brought us insights that we want to anchor. Telework is a keeper. You know that the necessary initiatives have been put in place to achieve the target of two days a week on average for each official. At the same time, however, we have seen how mental resilience can come under pressure. We must pay attention to this. Hence the right to deconnect, which we introduce to the federal government. We work together with other government partners on a Mental Resilience plan for our active population and within the federal government also for our officials. We are also going to continue to digitize, but we are always looking at the other side of the coin, as we have said, and we are taking into account those who are less easy to deal with. Hopefully Corona has also provided us with a sustainable insight into our travel behaviour. The federal government wants to continue to stimulate modal shift. We do this through the cycling plan and flexible subscriptions for public transport and through the greening of the federal fleet, which is already very limited compared to the private sector. All this is linked to a coherent travel policy. Meetings of a few hours abroad, where we take the plane in the morning and fly back in the evening, will be much less common than before. Finally, I would like to make a general comment. Corona has also taught us that it is crucial to work together between departments and competences on crisis management. We will certainly learn from that and continue to work on it in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u25	Corona has had a lot of negative consequences and had a very big impact on many of us. However, we must and can learn from it. We must continue with the good practices of the past year. I'm glad to hear you're willing to bet on that. Let's just take the positives and put the negatives behind us as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u26	Mr President, Mrs Goethals, firstly, on my question and to my pleasure, the administration is working closely with scientific institutions to carry out policy preparatory studies. For example, the new competence policy and the new evaluation policy are developed on the basis of studies. As you know, we also have a study on the inhibiting factors for women in top positions. Secondly, we are going to transform Selor's current scientific advisory committee into a scientific body capable of giving opinions on all aspects of HR policy. Thirdly, the administration also keeps its finger on the pulse by using insights from international organisations, such as OECD, EUPAN and DISPA, as far as possible in the design of the policy. Many of the current HR processes within the federal government, such as selection, evaluation and career policy, are based on the current 5+1 competence model, which you do know. However, this competence model needs to be revised, because it does not focus enough on the competences of the future. And so a number of scenarios are being developed for a renewed competence model, which should form the basis for a more modern staff policy. An important yard is also to improve the performance of the recruitment procedures themselves. We are working on an accelerated selection process in which we could recruit someone within one month or sooner. We start this up with the bottleneck professions. That would be a breakthrough, wouldn't it? There will also be better use of the application pool, including yard reserves, through matching, linking competence profiles to job vacancies. The combination of recruitment and development will also be made possible through dual learning and civil servants' reskilling projects. All these things should make selection procedures faster, simpler and more performant, without compromising the quality of the outflow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic601x.u27	Madam Secretary, human resources policy is not a sign. I am glad that you want to work on it, because I think it will be a win-win situation for everyone, both for the government and for the people, who can flow faster. Further questions will follow on the answers you gave me, but you probably expected that.
