ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic487x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, the history of Mrs El Kaouakibi and her organisations has already received considerable attention in the press. These are subject to a number of investigations concerning the possible or suspected misuse of sponsorship and grant funds. The National Lottery subsidises charities and projects of different kinds. That is why I come to you with this question. Have organisations of Mrs El Kaouakibi also received sponsorship or other grants from the National Lottery in recent years? Is that the case? In recent years, has the National Lottery sponsored or subsidised one of the following organisations: Let's go Urban, WannaWork, WannaCatch, WannaChange, Divine Intervention, Kaouayen Invest, WeLoveBXL, Point Urbain, A Woman's View or Tokomat? Apart from that private story, it is of course also important to look at the control of the subsidy ring on the ground. How does the control of the use of subsidies proceed? Does the National Lottery itself check ex-post whether money was used properly? I have just read in the draft new management contract that it is indeed the intention to strengthen the procedures on that point. I'm glad to hear that. Has the National Lottery linked its effects over the past few years to those potentially wrongly outsourced funds? I would have liked to have had an overview of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic487x.u2	Mr Roggeman, I understand from the National Lottery that people are wondering why certain questions are being asked on Twitter, but with a question mark, when the answer comes much later. This gives the impression that there is a certain stain on an organization that does not deserve it. You also know how fervent I am on Twitter and how important that medium is to me. Let me tell you in all transparency that when you announce that you will ask if there are any links between X and Y, this could imply an insinuation and that not everyone feels comfortable with it. I can confirm that the National Lottery has not received a single grant application from one of the many non-profit organisations you have listed. However, an application for commercial sponsorship was received because of A Woman's View for the organisation of the Out of the Box event. That happened in the years 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016. For each of those years, an amount of 4,132,23 euro, excluding VAT, was granted. For 2017, a sponsorship of 1,000 euros, excluding VAT, was awarded. The National Lottery has confirmed to me that the consideration agreed in exchange for the sponsorship was effectively provided by the event organizer. You have already answered part of the second question yourself. I refer to Articles 35 to 38 of the current management contract for the payment of subsidies from the National Lottery and the checks carried out by it. These articles make a distinction, inter alia, according to the purpose for which a grant is awarded. As you yourself have indicated and in the meantime established, the draft management contract which has just been discussed has made the powers of control of the National Lottery even more clear, in the sense that all beneficiaries, except those designated by law, are subject to any control over the use of the subsidies. The control mechanisms for subsidies provided for in the abovementioned Articles have been designed in such a way that the risk of misutilisation of subsidies is very limited. In any case, no case of fraud has been reported in recent years. Also in the case of sponsorship, very careful consideration is always given to whether the agreed consideration has been delivered effectively. That is the most important thing in the question about sponsorship: were there any consideration provided? That is the case in the case of your first question. This is also always checked on the basis of supporting documents or on-the-spot checks. No case of fraud was found here either. It remains important to continue to carry out those checks, to check that the sponsoring provided for was properly observed. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the National Lottery is, in turn, strictly controlled by the representative of the Court of Auditors and, of course, by the Commissioner's auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic487x.u3	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the explanation. I have noted the figures of the commercial sponsorship to A Woman's View and I take note of the notification from you and the National Lottery that the consideration required for this has been provided. Furthermore, I understand that in recent years no case of fraud has been detected in subsidies and sponsorship. That is a good thing, although as the devil's attorney I might note that there may be a need for more control. However, I hear that the management contract is moving in the right direction. Perhaps one can recognize that there too it could be a little more closely. To deal with the general comments, I have indeed shared my oral question in full through my social media. I believe there is nothing wrong with announcing a parliamentary initiative, especially if all nuances are extended. Anyone who maliciously wishes to interpret that, of course, will do so on his own account. I write what I write, no more or less.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic487x.u4	Anyone who wants to occupy a top job in our federal government department better have a party card in their pocket, except, of course, one of the PVDA. For example, the appointment carousel is coming to an end and we know who has become the new chairman of the board of directors of our National Lottery. It is Géraldine Demaret, the sister-in-law of Mr Bouchez, the chairman of the MR party, who is also part of the government. How has Mrs Demaret been appointed? Who proposed her candidacy? Were there any other candidates? If so, which one? What criteria should a Chairman of the Board of Directors of the National Lottery meet? Does Mrs Demaret meet these criteria? How do you feel about a party chairman's sister-in-law being in charge of the National Lottery Board? How often does this council meet and what is the merit of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic487x.u5	I guess I don't have to answer your question if a top job can go to someone from the PVDA. I will deal with the substance of the matter, and I refer you to the organic law of 19 April 2002, which lays down the procedures for the appointment of ordinary members and for the chairman of the National Lottery Board. The King shall appoint, by a decision adopted after consultation in the Council of Ministers, a number of ordinary members in proportion to the number of votes attaching to the shares held by the State. The King shall then appoint the Chairman of the Management Board from among the members. The co-ordinated statutes of the National Lottery provide that directors are elected on the grounds of their legal, economic, financial or social competence, or their competence in the field of the National Lottery. In accordance with Article 69 of the management contract, I can confirm that it has been ensured that all nominated persons comply with the conditions laid down by the law or by the statutes and that all persons have the necessary competences to perform the functions properly. Who these people are out of function and what their relationships with others are, is really none of my business. I would point out that the board members who were appointed have different professional backgrounds. Thanks to their respective powers and their experience, they ensure that the debates of the Management Board are constructive and qualitative, as it should be for an important undertaking. The Organic Law of 19 April 2002 on the National Lottery also provides for a number of inconsistencies, but again, the President also fulfils all the conditions in that respect. The Management Board shall be convened by the Chairperson or the Managing Director, whenever the interests of the Company so require or whenever at least two directors so request. The Council meets at least six times a year, but, for example, met 12 times in 2020. The Council therefore did not limit itself to the minimum requirement and met twice as much as minimal last year. Pursuant to Article 10 of the Organic Law, the General Meeting of Shareholders determines the remuneration of members of the Management Board by their mandate as directors. The general meeting of 21 May 2021 laid down the following fees. A flat-rate gross remuneration of EUR 30 000 per year and EUR 750 per meeting of the Management Board and EUR 1,000 per meeting of the Strategic Committee, the Audit Committee and the remuneration committee shall be granted to the Chairperson. Each of the other members of the Board shall receive a fixed gross remuneration of EUR 15,000 per year as well as EUR 500 per meeting of the Management Board and EUR 1,000 per meeting of the Strategic Committee, the Audit Committee and the remuneration committee. Those fees were committed many years ago and were not indexed, for the sake of clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic487x.u6	You did not actually answer the question of whether there were any other candidates. We believe it is important that there is much more transparency in relation to the decisions of the boards of directors. We also believe that its composition should be more democratic. That is why we are asking questions about the way in which the members of the boards of directors are appointed, which we do not think is very democratic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic487x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, this is a written question which I have converted into an oral question. I would ask you to list a number of things, figures and organisations. So I can absolutely accept a written reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic487x.u8	Mrs Goethals, I don't think you'd like to listen to me for that long, but I can be wrong. At least I don't like listening to myself for so long. Firstly, I should like to apologise for the fact that the question was not answered in writing in good time. Parliament deserves that respect. I will give you the answer in writing immediately. It is best for everyone, including the interpreters and myself, that I do not take all the figures off.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic487x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, it is not that I do not want to listen to you, it is not that, but you may give me the answer in writing. Thanks.
