ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u1	The Ecolo-Groen Group tabled a bill in March to freeze the decline in unemployment benefits during maternity leave for unemployed workers. The current rules are discriminatory for pregnant women, because during their maternity rest, during which they are protected and outside the labour market, the rules to encourage return to work apply, which is totally abnormal. Minister Dermagne announced that he was working on a draft royal decree amending the unemployment regulations so as to allow this freeze on the degressivity of benefits during maternity leave, with the objective of coming into force on 1 January 2022. Your colleague Mr Dermagne also indicated that in order to amend this regulation, it was not enough to amend the Royal Decree, but it was also necessary to consider amending the INAMI regulation, which falls within your competence. That is why, Minister Dermagne said, you were to present a draft text to the INAMI Management Committee last June. I would therefore like to take stock with you of this matter: What is the return of the INAMI Management Committee? Are further steps needed to amend the INAMI regulation and to allow this measure to be fully implemented? Are they in progress? What's your status? Do you confirm the date of January 1 as the date of the theoretical entry into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u2	The purpose of the amendment to the Unemployment Insurance Regulations to which you refer was to add the period during which the worker receives maternity benefits to the events extending the intermediate phase of the unemployment benefit period, regardless of the duration of that period, given that only full months are taken into account for this extension. As a result of this project to amend the regulation of unemployment, changes to the applicable legislation on maternity insurance were necessary to maintain the system's consistency. On 16 June, a preliminary draft law and a draft royal decree to freeze the effects of the degressivity of unemployment benefits on the benefits granted by mutualities to unemployed persons controlled under maternity insurance had therefore been submitted for an opinion to the INAMI Management Committee for the insurance of employees' benefits. However, these two projects, unemployment and maternity insurance, were examined by an intercabinet working group. It turns out that, for the moment, there is no agreement from all the coalition partners to adapt the unemployment regulations. Since the legislation on maternity insurance is linked to the amendment of the unemployment rules, it can only be adapted and enter into force if the unemployment rules on degression are adapted. So, unfortunately, they are currently in stand-by.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u3	Mr Minister, I do not understand at all why your colleague, Mr Dermagne, says that he hopes that this measure will be released and even implemented on 1 January 2021, while you are much more reserved than the outcome of this measure. Minister, I urge you to weigh your weight so that women are no longer the victims of this discrimination, since when they are protected and leave the labour market, they are subject to measures designed to bring them back into the labour market. It's discrimination. My vision is the same as that of the opinions we received, which told us, in relation to this bill that we tabled in March, that, indeed, women are discriminated against by this regulation. I invite you, Minister, to make every effort to put an end to this discrimination as soon as possible. On the other hand, the extension of the stages of degression you are talking about would only take place in full months. Thus, a female worker who would have a 15-week stop on horseback for several months would lose several weeks. This could be calculated in months depending on how her maternity leave will be distributed. For me, it's totally problematic. The 15 weeks (or more since there are reasons that may lead to prolongation of maternity leave) must be fully removed from the degressivity schedule. Minister, the answer you're giving me disappoints me a little, but I continue to have confidence in your ability to move this project forward. In any case, I invite you to weigh your weight to put an end to this discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u4	Minister, meal vouchers are intended for the purchase of a meal or ready-to-use food. However, the conclusion of a study in 2019 was that it often also purchases non-food products, including alcohol and tobacco, in department stores. In 2020, the editors of the meal cheques decided to make stricter regulations and to ensure that cash register systems would no longer allow non-food products to be paid with cheques. It was also mentioned at that time that there was very little control of the FOD and the publishers of the meal cheques. In recent months, it has also been noted that non-food products can still be purchased with meal cheques. Minister, how is the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Dialogue monitoring going? What's the result of that? Do you have any results on the purchase of non-food products with meal vouchers? What sanctions are there for supermarkets that still accept meal cheques for non-food products? How do you feel about limiting the use of meal cheques for the purchase of unhealthy products?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u5	The Voucher Issuers Association, the VIA, is an association that defends and defends the interests of its members. It provides advice and support and conducts research and testing on so-called cheque instruments. So it's not a control organism. Several projects and initiatives seek to raise awareness and encourage self-regulation in partnership with all stakeholders. Control by the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation is the responsibility of the Minister for Labour. With regard to your question about limiting the use of meal cheques for the purchase of unhealthy products, I can give you some reservations. The meal cheques were created as an alternative for employers who do not have a company restaurant and yet wish to offer an economical meal to the employees. Therefore, the use of that cheque is limited to the payment of a meal or the purchase of ready-to-use food. The meal check is a wage advantage created in the employment relationship between employer and employee. The question of whether the meal cheque should be limited to healthy products is therefore perhaps, first and foremost, a question for the social partners. Your suggestion can also be examined in the context of work on the federal food plan, which is currently under preparation. The Federal Food and Health Plan will be drawn up for the period 2021-2030. The aim is, of course, to ensure continuity with the previous plans. The draft Federal Food and Health Plan contains new proposals and concrete actions under the federal powers. For its formal validation, a consultation of food experts will be organised by the end of 2021. The implementation of the objectives set out in the Federal Food and Health Plan will then be discussed with stakeholders from 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u6	Minister, I understand that the check on the meal cheques is with the Minister of Work. In any case, I believe that healthy food should be used in the use of meal cheques. I expect your support for this, as you, as Minister of Health, are also involved in the federal food plan. Also with your voice at the table, it can be ensured that the meal cheques should be explicitly spent on healthy food.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u7	Madam President, Minister, in reply to a previous question I asked your colleague, the Minister for Work, Mr Pierre-Yves Dermagne referred me to you. A certain Belgian football club has set up a creative tax structure when selling a player to an Italian club. In order to reduce the selling price, and thus the tax treatment of these revenues, the player in question was first kept on the payroll of the Belgian club for a while, but loaned to the Italian club. I quote from Minister Dermagne's reply: 'As far as workers with a contract of employment for paid sportsmen and women are concerned, there is no derogation from the legislation on the posting of workers, as laid down in Article 31 et seq. of the Law of 24 July 1987 on temporary work, temporary work and the making available of workers to users. The loan of a professional footballer to another club should therefore be made subject to this legislation. In the case of posting of workers, the employer's authority shall be transferred to the user. This authority will therefore be exercised by the user club." The reason for this technique is clear. The interesting RSZ scheme for top sportsmen makes it much more convenient to leave the footballer on the Belgian payroll. Minister, what is your opinion on this technique and is the intention of the favourable RSZ scheme consistent with the behaviour of this club?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u8	Madam President, Mrs Samyn, the case you are describing concerns the posting of a footballer. If the posting is done correctly, then there is then an application of the RSZ legislation, which means that the RSZ still collects social contributions. If a footballer is posted by a Belgian club to a club in another Member State, the footballer must be indicated to the Belgian RSZ. The Belgian RSZ indeed uses a very exceptional favor regime for professional sportsmen. As you know, the government has very recently decided that this needs to be thoroughly reformed, because we consider this to be unfair. It is not acceptable that the strongest shoulders should not bear the greatest burdens. So I am going to launch this reform, with attention to players with low and average earnings. It is not the intention to hit these players, but indeed to achieve greater justice. We are going to discuss this with all the different professional sports sectors and therefore also the one who detaches a footballer or other athlete abroad will be caught by that reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your much more comprehensive reply than last time. Only this specific dossier allowed savings of 35,000 euros in RSZ contributions. That's not normal anymore, is it? As you pointed out, strong shoulders must carry the heaviest loads. It is a pity that you have not made a full effort within the government to completely stop the favorable RSZ scheme for top sportsmen, especially since in the aftermath of the large-scale Clean Hands dossier, the Special Tax Inspectorate has now also begun an investigation into fraud within football. The picture hanging from the football circuit is not nice: ranging from tax evasion on a large scale over illegal commissions for brokers, large payments to trainers and players, to foreign tax constructions. As far as we are concerned, this must be tackled as a matter of absolute priority. Hopefully you will be able to help tackle the unjust system once and for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u10	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u11	Mrs van Peel, you are referring to a finding which at first sight is indeed contradictory, namely that the covid pandemic has resulted in fewer people than usual entering into incapacity for work under the ZIV benefit insurance scheme. In the written preparation, you yourself point out that some of the temporary unemployed may not have indicated their periods of incapacity for work during the pandemic. I do not have any specific figures on this. There may have been other factors involved. There is, first of all, postponing non-urgent medical care. Secondly, there is a reduced incidence of other conditions due to the lockdown periods and the measures taken. Other infectious diseases are also controlled by the covid measures. Finally, there is the expansion of telework, which may have reduced the need for people to apply for sick leave. The biggest impact of the corona crisis was, of course, also seen in the older age groups, which can no longer be covered by ZIV benefit insurance. When we look at the figures of long-term incapacity for work, we see the same impact of the corona crisis as with the certificates of incapacity for work, albeit with a year's delay. It appears that the number of people in disability in the months of April and May 2021 is very low, which is consistent with the low number of certificates for entry into incapacity for work exactly one year earlier. For the first time in a long time we see a decrease in the total number of disabled persons in April and May 2021. From June 2021, their number will increase again. I have figures here for the entry and for the total number, each year for the year 2021. In January 2021 there were 8,209 entries. The total number was 444.963 persons. In February 2021, the number of entries decreased to 5,956. The total number of people involved increased slightly to 446.372. In March 2021, the figure was again low compared to similar periods in the past, i.e. 5,822 new entries. The total number still slightly increased by February 2021 to 447,383. In April and May we note a very significant drop in the number of new entries. In April, 2.480 and the total number of entries fell to 444.663. In May there was also a small number, 3.832 and the total number fell further to 442.091. In June it rose again to 5,341, and the total number reached 442,898. In order to identify the number of persons with a long-covid disease passing through the disability, the High Commission of the Medical Board for Invalidity adopted on 16 October 2020 a note relating to the coding of COVID-19 cases of disability entry. Code B97.2 Coronavirus as the cause of diseases classified elsewhere should be used as main pathology code and code of specific pathology, e.g. J12.8 Other viral pneumonia. Persons with long covid can use the various systems of reintegration in sickness and invalidity insurance, which are already in existence or are being rolled out: part-time work resumed through the system of admitted activity, vocational retraining, reintegration with the employer and guidance through the return-to-work coordinators. There are currently no specific measures targeted at that target group. I do not rule that out in the future, but we do not have enough scientific basis to establish a very specific policy for those affected by lung covid today. We're collecting that data. Personally, I think that is a very important problem. We also see that there is a lot of physical and mental suffering in patients affected by lung covid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u12	You are right, Minister, if you list all these reasons, that there is a logic. It is often about older people, delaying medical care and teleworking will also play a role. The latter is perhaps the most interesting part. It shows that if we step away from binary logic'may or may not work' and find a customized form, telework can offer a solution for many things. Apart from that, I also think we should keep an eye on long covid. It is probably too early to have scientifically based data and correct figures at this stage, but it is good that it is being mapped out. That's a first step. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u13	Madam President, Minister, our social protection system provides for amounts of social benefits that depend on the recipient's family situation. The problem is that, with the growth of new forms of housing such as cohabitation, maintaining a traditional vision of the family generates injustices and discriminations within our social system. For example, a person receiving replacement allowances who decides to live with his or her family, while maintaining his or her daily autonomy, will be reduced. In a judgment of 9 October 2017, the Court of Cassation recalled that the mere fact of living together was insufficient to consider roommates as cohabitants; they must also regulate household tasks and activities in common. However, while this judgment is an important first step towards the end of legal insecurity, it does not resolve everything. How will people be considered to be performing household tasks and activities together? This is a problem, especially since the burden of proof rests entirely on the social insured, which, in practice, is very difficult and sometimes impossible to achieve. Minister, today our social system limits the private and family life of insured persons and fosters an outdated vision of the family that does not always allow for self-help and emancipation. How do you work with Minister Lalieux to move toward the elimination of cohabitant status? Pending further progress in this area, do you intend to clarify the criteria taken into account in determining the status of cohabitant, in particular in the case of a co-location?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u14	I am well aware of the demands to end the status of cohabitant made at World Day to Combat Poverty on 17 October. These claims are not new. This status as a cohabitant has been contested for several years. It is accused of precarising the situation of beneficiaries of social benefits, of ignoring the evolution of our society, which is experiencing increasingly diverse forms of habitat such as co-locations, co-husing, intergenerational habitats and others. It is important to remember that the concept of cohabitation is not uniform at all, it varies according to the branches of social security and the type of social assistance. Sometimes cohabitation has an influence on the opening of rights, sometimes on the amount of compensation granted. As far as I am concerned, cohabitation opens up compulsory health care insurance rights, which is not negligible. In compensation insurance, on the other hand, the situation is different since the compensation received for disability varies according to the status of the holder (isolated, cohabitant or holder with dependants). A holder cohabiting with regard to the insurance allowance is a holder living with a person having a certain amount of income and forming with him a common household. However, when a holder cohabits with a person with low incomes, he or she is treated as an isolated holder and then receives a higher allowance (a rate of 55 per cent and not more than 40 per cent). The regulations also provide for the possibility for a social insurance person who lives with other persons to prove that he or she does not actually constitute a common household with his or her cohabitants, so that new forms of cohabitation can be taken into account and that in such cases the insured person is not granted a co-habitation rate rather than an isolated rate. Among the indicators that will be taken into account are the entry into the lease of co-residents at different periods, the availability of its own bell, the fact that there is no common budget for the purchase of the effects required for the household, the financial assumption of the utilities (water, gas, etc.).). This is in line with the position adopted by the Court of Cassation in the judgment of 9 October 2017 to which you refer and which concerned an entirely different sector, that of unemployment benefits. The rules relating to cohabitation differ as regards allowances for persons with disabilities, GRAPA, social integration income, pensions and unemployment. These matters do not fall within my competence, if a reflection were to be undertaken on the concept of cohabitation or the status of cohabitant, it should be carried out jointly with my colleagues, Ministers Lalieux and Dermagne. A working group has been set up within the Social Security FPS to examine the concept of cohabitation. This group is continuing its work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u15	Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer, but the current system is based on the idea that people who coexist necessarily share their income. However, it is well known that today many people live in the same dwelling, share the same address while contributing to their own subsistence. Since the burden of proof lies here with the social beneficiary, it will be up to him to prove that he is in good condition to benefit from the isolated rate. The risk is that only the best informed people can claim their rights. This status is truly pre-eminent since it is the small incomes that are the most penalized and that, as you noted on World Day for Combating Poverty, are at risk of definitely turning into poverty. You mentioned a working group. Can you tell me when you will have his information and conclusions? Is there a timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answer. If we wanted to ask you about this, it is because this status has been contested for a long time and in the same way. For too long, we have seen successive ministers in charge of this matter pass on a kind of hot potato. I therefore think that it is time for this government to consider a reform that will move towards a genuine individualisation of social rights. The status of cohabitant today opens up certain rights but this is done with amounts that do not fully take into account the reality of these people. It is necessary to move towards a gradual elimination of this status as a cohabitant; one can think about doing so by income bracket or by type of replacement income. Today, this status, whether we like it or not, penalizes and precautions too many citizens on the basis of a single criterion that does not take account of their reality, whether they are students, close caregivers or in a situation of disability. The situation is particularly arbitrary with regard to co-locations which have the virtue of helping people in situations of great insecurity or young people to access decent housing but which, as a result of this status, end up being penalized both in terms of the amounts and the burden imposed on them to prove that they do not constitute a common household, as you have explained. While criteria are based on current case law, there is no legal certainty. We come to decisions that are not harmonized from person to person. The result is a certain injustice. I agree with the last question asked by my colleague. You mentioned a working group set up to examine the concept of cohabitation. For what purpose? What's the timing? Will this working group be required to conduct a study that would allow finally to objectify the share of the costs and benefits of co-habitant status in the short, medium and long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u17	Since last week, there has been a lot of debate about possible plans to get people back to work. Many long-term sick people would like to get back to work in a viable and adapted job. The PVDA fully supports them in that. However, it is important to tailor the offered guidance to their possibilities and needs as much as possible. At the same time, we must look ahead and ask ourselves where exactly we are sending people. Will the pathways lead to adapted jobs with good working conditions? The reintegration paths have so far mainly focused on re-employment with the original employer. Research carried out by the KUL and the ULB shows that only 13% of the files were completed in this way. Apparently, you're changing the rifle from shoulder to shoulder and in this new trajectory you're arguing for deer employment in any job, including another one. How will this activation project work? What are the objectives of the advisory doctors, return coordinators, prevention services and occupational doctors? Will the occupational doctors have access to the medical records of the entitled persons? What about the return coordinators and the mediators of VDAB, Actiris or Le Forem? What will be the response of the VDAB, Actiris or Le Forem? Are the funds allocated per capita? What is your opinion on the outflow of long-term sick into atypical contracts or unadapted jobs? Will the VDAB, Actiris and Le Forem be able to outsource their guidance, for example through tender? Will you set up a global monitoring exercise so that year after year we can determine how many of the routes will succeed and what kind of jobs they will lead to?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u18	Mrs Merckx, I will answer your questions punctually, although sometimes it will prove to be a general answer. We are, of course, still developing the reactivation of long-term sick. We have indicated the general lines of chalk, but obviously there is still a lot of consultation to be done. Advisory doctors and their multidisciplinary team, the return-to-work coordinators, the prevention services and the occupational doctors all have their own role and function in the return-to-work process. The objective is, of course, the same for everyone, namely tailored guidance, as fast and sustainable as possible, of people who can and want to take steps to work. To fund the return-to-work coordinators, we have based ourselves on a caseload of 300 files, some of which are based on good practices from the past. I would like to stress once again that these people have a coordinating function at the level of the sickness fund. They should not act as an individual coach during a whole journey. They must be accessible to persons with disabilities, which means that they must be able to be found and ready in particular. However, they are not supposed to be coaching throughout the course, because in that case we would need many more coordinators. For the specific coordinating role we provide, we believe, on the basis of past experience, that a caseload of 300 files per return-to-work coordinator is appropriate. For your rather specific questions about the occupational doctors, I would like to refer you to my colleague, Mr Dermagne, who is responsible for this. As far as medical information is concerned, I repeat what I am sure you already know very well. However, it is important for the public to hear that again. Only doctors have access to medical information. The translation of this medical information into what it means for the functioning of people with health problems is very relevant for the return-to-work coordinators and for the mediators of regional mediation services and their partners. They can be subcontractors or people working in some form of cooperation. The existing budget for this service, guaranteed by basic funding, will be strengthened from 2023 with an additional budget supporting the achievement of the ambition of more routes in the regions, with a stronger proportional catch-up operation for regions where the guidance ratio is lagging behind today. Our proposal to the Regions is to allow this additional funding to be made through an annual additional amount, i.e. an envelope consisting of the number of additional routes to be completed compared to 2022, multiplied by 4,000 euros per route. At the end of each year it would be considered whether the agreed number of routes was achieved and whether the percentage of outflow to be achieved to the labour market was realised. So we also want to look at the results achieved, but that percentage to be achieved will take into account the regional labour market situation. Here, too, the idea is that we want a more proportional improvement for regions below the overall average today. If the agreed objectives are not met, this should have an impact on the partial envelope for the following period. We shall, however, use a margin of tolerance which must be defined and agreed. Personally, I think that if we define a margin of tolerance in relation to the objective to be achieved and the objective to be achieved takes into account the regional context, we must take that margin of tolerance into account uniformly, but these are details that we need to discuss further. The outflow to work, both in terms of the nature of the contracts, the number of hours and the nature of the job, must be considered entirely in function of the person. We do not exclude any form of work, because what is considered atypical for one person is perhaps just an appropriate form of work in conjunction with his health problem. Monitoring is explicitly regulated in the new legislation. This is both a measurement based on the registrations by the back-to-work coordinators and a scientifically supported research in 2024. It is not at all the idea that people will be obliged to accept a particular job or a specific path to work if they do not see it. However, it is essential that people are motivated to look for work or appropriate training and then step into it. As you know, we have a procedure in which obligations apply, but this is about obligations relating to the performance of the procedure, not about the obligation to accept a particular work or to step in a particular path.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer, which I will come back to later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u20	Minister, a lot has been said in recent days about the sanctions for employers in the return to work plan. In an article in De Standaard based on the leaked notification, of which you have confirmed the accuracy, the author concludes that the sanctions for employers would be a measure of nothing. The notification reportedly states literally: "Extremely high is understood to mean that the ratio between inflow into long-term incapacity and total employment in the enterprise is three times higher than for enterprises belonging to the same NACE code and five times higher than for the private sector in general." Yesterday you came back to that in De Standaard and the day before yesterday on RTL, noticing that the notification does not correctly reflect the intention. You also added that, if so, one is actually too tolerant and that instead of three and five, x and y should have been written. Do you then agree that what is in that notification is actually a measure for nothing? How do you propose to change that? What, in your view, is an appropriate proportion for sanctions against employers? How do you see that going in the government? Will you renegotiate that? Do all the parties agree that the criteria as they stand now in black and white should become stricter for employers, otherwise the scheme will be a measure of nothing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u21	Mrs Merckx, the figures in De Standaard on the basis of which companies are endorsed when they have three times more outflow into long-term incapacity than their sector average and five times more than the national average are known from the previous regulations on accidents at work. In the meantime, the accidents at work do not take into account three and five times but two and five times. The figures have really fallen into the government's notification by mistake, because we have given them as an example of accidents at work, but not as a proposal for a decision. I have to admit that I responded a little late to the article in De Standaard. So that's not De Standaard's fault. Colleagues of mine in the government were also surprised. In the debate on the nuclear cabinet, I have always said that it is about a proportion, which we must establish. There is a proportion X in relation to the sector and a proportion Y in relation to the national average. Those proportions should be established in such a way as to identify holdings with a particularly high outflow rate. In addition, if companies that do not correct high outflow, a financial penalty is needed. However, the essence is not so much that we want to issue sanctions. For example, we have not registered any proceeds from these contributions. We have not therefore estimated that a certain number of companies will be affected and that this will be paid a certain amount. The essence is that we want to prevent and therefore we want to inform companies about how their performance in the field of outflow to long-term incapacity for work relates to the average of their sector and to the national average. We also warn them that if this performance exceeds a certain threshold, there will be a financial penalty. However, these parameters have not yet been established. I did not say to De Standaard that the figures of three times and five times are certainly too tolerant. I said we don't know yet. Maybe they're too tolerant, maybe they're too strict. We just don't know. Based on the description given by De Standaard of one or two sectors, it could be concluded that the figures are too tolerant. To be honest, I didn't say those terms myself, but I didn't want to contradict De Standaard either. The arrangement must not be too tolerant, because then it has no meaning. Nor is it intended to impose large-scale sanctions on companies. How will we determine the exact parameters? We haven't put that data together today. The starting point is that companies which see an exceptionally high proportion of workers end up in long-term incapacity for work will start to do so. It's about outliers exceptions in statistical terms. Then what exactly is exceptional? We need to run a test run of some scenarios based on recent empirie. In order to do such a test run, an exchange must be established between the data of the RIZIV and the RSZ. The RIZIV knows per person the moment of entry into the primary incapacity for work and the long-term incapacity. The NIS codes must then be linked by the RSZ to the undertakings in which those workers were employed or were employed at the time of the onset of the incapacity. We want to look at companies with at least 50 employees and employees with at least three years' seniority. After all, we do not want to end up in a situation where companies are discouraged from recruiting people with a weaker health profile and, for example, offering a permanent contract. Many stories about the responsiveness of employers This is the big disadvantage.In the end, it is bad when it comes to recruiting people who may have a weaker profile or are older. That is why we think it is useful to inform companies about the drop-out to incapacity for work of workers over 55 years of age, but in fact they should not reactivate companies in this area, because they will not recruit people over 55 years of age. That kind of intervention is always a double-edged sword. We must also be careful about this from a social point of view. It is said that the huge fall in the number of permanent contract recruitments in the Netherlands is due to the resilience to which employers are subject with regard to the disability benefits of their employees. Companies will no longer recruit people with fixed contracts, and of course we do not want them to. So that is all too often a two-edged sword and must be looked at carefully. The preparation of this exercise has already begun. We'll do a test run, but it'll be a while. I therefore hope that you will not question me again next week or in two weeks' time. It will be a while before we have the results, but I hope to have them sufficiently quickly. The essence is that the government agrees that we should fish outliers and that we should inform as many companies as possible about how they relate to similar companies and the national average in this area. It is not a question of collecting a great deal of money; we have no money on it, but it is a question of sensitizing and responding. It needs to be discussed. We will. As always, I must be able to listen to alternative proposals. In any case, I would like to make progress with the policy. The tanker has been stationary for a long time, so we need to get it moving.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u22	So, Minister, you're saying that it got into the notifications by mistake, but that's really incredible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u23	It happens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u24	What amateurism, actually! It's in writing now! Luckily, the PVDA went into that immediately. If we had not reacted so fiercely, would that have come to light?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u25	Mrs Merckx, now you're doing yourself a little too much credit. You often react very quickly, and that is admirable, but once I have seen it, I have also responded and I have told my colleagues in the government that it was not agreed to do so. There was no one at the time who disagreed with me, so it changed immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u26	That has changed immediately, but at the same time you say that it is not clear at all. So the ratio was two and five. That's not a detail. Will the companies really be taken on their responsibilities? Isn't it? Will they be able to get out of it very easily? It's a sign that it was supposed to be a mistake. It is clear that we will remain very critical. You say that you will test and insist that you do not question about this next week. I will perhaps do so again tomorrow, because we want to know what will actually come out of the bus. You also say that your coalition partners all agree with you. So what's it gonna be in the end? We absolutely need to know that as soon as possible. Your performance is still problematic, isn't it? You say that you look at the outliers, but in some sectors the phenomenon is general. For example, many cleaning women are ill and look at the situation in a company like Lidl, where there is now a stop. There are certain sectors where there are really too many sick. If they are compared only with each other, nothing will happen at all and no fewer workers will become ill. That's why you need to look at other thoughts as well. For example, how can it be ensured that employees are actually re-enforced in their business and get adapted work? Should you not also propose quotas to employers in this respect? Those are definitely different slopes. You can be sure that the PVDA will continue to follow the file. We are very pleased that the lines are already moving in part. We will not admit that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u27	Questions Nos 55021978C and 55021999C by Ms Merckx are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u28	Minister, a great deal has already been said last week about sanctions for the sick themselves. For example, if you refuse to fill in a policy questionnaire with the mutual adviser, you would lose 2.5 % of the benefit. Mr. Secretary, do you have that exact questionnaire yet? Is it about the questionnaire I gave you on RTL on Sunday, the quickscan that is already being sent to the people in category 4, after 8 weeks of incapacity for work, by the counsellors? Will not or will not complete the quickscan lead to a sanction? Under what conditions? In the notification one talks about repeated contact attempts. After how many unsuccessful contacts by the occupational physician or the return coordinator will the beneficiary be liable to incur a penalty? Can an unlawful absence from a meeting with the return coordinator lead to a penalty? That's also in the notification. Can missed appointments at the VDAB, Actiris, Forem or any other body lead to a sanction of the RIZIV? The penalty will continue until the patient responds. What exactly do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u29	Mrs Merckx, I will quote from a draft from KB which lays down the new procedure with regard to the questionnaire. I think that will make the answer clear. A quick scan is indeed being sent today. We intend to review that quick scan, but it is indeed about that type of instrument. I quote from the text of KB's draft which we wish to submit: 'Ten weeks after the onset of incapacity for work, the consultant sends a questionnaire to the beneficiary, which will determine which factors may, as the case may be, promote or prevent the resumption of work or the inclusion of an appeal to the regular labour market. The person entitled must return the questionnaire to the doctor within two weeks." That's the obligation. I will continue: "However, if the consultant has not received the questionnaire within two weeks, he will ask the return-to-work coordinator to contact the beneficiary. Where appropriate, he will be given the necessary support in filling in. The advisory doctor may, for duly justified medical reasons, derogate from the obligation to send a questionnaire referred to in paragraph 1. In the course of the fourth month of incapacity for work, the consultant shall, where appropriate, in consultation with the return to work coordinator, including on the basis of the medical file of the beneficiary and the questionnaire completed by the beneficiary, make an initial assessment of his residual capacities. If, despite the support provided for in paragraph 1, it has not been possible for the beneficiary to complete the questionnaire sent, the consultant shall invite him for a medical examination in the context of this assessment of the remaining capacities, unless the medical information provided shows that the completion of the questionnaire is not possible and an examination is not appropriate at that time." End quote from a design. A questionnaire shall be sent unless it is considered inappropriate to send it on the basis of the medical information available to the consulting physician. The beneficiary shall be deemed to reply. If this is not the case, the doctor will ask the coordinator to contact the beneficiary and, if necessary, to help her or him. If, despite this offer, the questionnaire is not yet due, the consultant invites her or him to a medical examination. That seems very fair to me. It may be noted at that time that there were still unknown medical reasons for not filling in the questionnaire, despite the help, but that medical examination may also allow for a proper evaluation of the situation of the beneficiary who did not fill in the questionnaire. That is a medical examination in the context of the assessment of the remaining capacities. What does the government's notification say? I quote: "If the insured person, despite several attempts at contact by both the return-to-work coordinator and the consulting doctor and despite a written warning, does not respond to the invitation of the consulting doctor referred to in Article 215i, § 1," that is the draft text "and there are no medical indications, a penalty of 2.5 % will be imposed on the benefit after consultation of the advisory bodies at the time the person responds. I repeat, until the person responds. The beneficiary shall be informed in writing of the reduction and of the reason for it. The penalty shall expire if the creditor proves to have a good reason not to have responded. To the letter, which is also important, but also concretely it is not about not completing the questionnaire as such. It is true that we are not discussing the invitation to a medical evaluation. The invitation is linked to the fact that the questionnaire was not sent. That's important. In this respect, an existing article of the legislation is already applicable in normal circumstances, namely Article 134, § 2. That article is applicable to the situation with the invitation. Paragraph 2 of that Article reads as follows: "The granting of benefits provided for in Title IV shall be discontinued as long as the beneficiary does not fulfil the control obligations imposed on him by any person empowered by a coordinated law." It's about full benefit. Mrs Merckx, I must correct you on this point. It is a question of medical evaluations, after a person's medical disability has already been established. Even if it is established, for a person who withdraws from control obligations, the benefit can be set to zero today. I quote from your question: "The article you quote deals with people in whom the counsellor cannot evaluate the state of health. That person could lose his benefit. In the case of the newly announced sanctions, it concerns people in whom the counsellor has been able to establish that they are ill." That's not right. It's about people whose medical disability was diagnosed earlier. Therefore, in the famous Article 134 (2) the expression'stopping the benefit' is used. However, in the context of the context, it was often in their interest to do so, as indicated for possible underlying medical reasons and in spite of the medical assistance offered, not to reply to the questionnaire in order to evaluate an invitation to an additional medical evaluation and which remained unanswered despite written notification. In such cases a suspension as provided for in Article 134 (2) would indeed be possible. This was repeatedly reaffirmed by the legal services of the RIZIV. I can send you the teaching on that article of the RIZIV Management Committee. In order to optimally target the assistance and support to those entitled to medically qualify for any adapted work and who consider that there may be an opportunity for (adapted) work and who believe that whether or not adapted work helps them a bit further financially and socially, it is really important to have a completed questionnaire, just because a much more equitable penalty is introduced for an infringement in another context. I cannot, of course, give figures on how often in the past the penalty measure of Article 134 (2) was applied in this context. Hopefully this is clear and this can finally help a number of fables that are told about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u30	The discussion began on Article 134 and the sanctions that currently exist. A benefit cannot be stopped if one does not submit to the checks of the medical adviser who will say whether one is ill or not. That's what got us all confused. Today there are already people whose counsellor thinks there is a possibility of reorientation or a part-time take-up of the work. That quickscan is already being sent to people with burn-out, for example. That's just the new thing: the counseling physician may consider that someone can resume work, but if that person and his or her treating physician, psychiatrist or psychologist are not of the same opinion, then it may be that person will not fill in the quickscan, which you may change. If he doesn't, he can be contacted again and he needs to have another conversation. Therefore, if he does not fill in the questionnaire and does not engage in conversation, he may be sanctioned. However, it is still unclear to me whether this sanction will only apply for failure to complete the questionnaire in itself or for the fact that the person concerned has not gone to the interview. If it's about that last one, you're saying something different than last week. After all, it was said that people who do not complete the questionnaire could be punished. The question is also whether a questionnaire is the most appropriate model. I talked to you last week about a case of someone burning out. People like that already feel very guilty about themselves. The questions have some meaning in a therapeutic context with a patient, of course, but when it comes to a controlling body, that is something else. I would therefore like to refer to the number of people placed in category 4 by the counsellor. I have not been able to ask all my questions, but it is clear that you are imposing firm figures in your plan. The counsellors really need to get certain figures, for example at least 55% of people have to commit themselves to doing it. I've been on the premises for 22 years as a general practitioner. I know what it's like. The infirmary's controlling physicians are effectively under pressure. More and more people will have to be put into category 4 in order to get the figures. That is, of course, our great concern, that the sanctions for the employee are quite detailed. One wants to subtract 2.5 %, until the person responds. You have again not said what that means, react.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u31	I'd like to respond, even if we're late.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u32	That will be a matter of a lot of paperwork, and those people will have to prove once again that they are ill, otherwise they will lose 2.5 %. I know that story. I know these people. I know what it's about. I'm very concerned about that. I will also remain very critical.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u33	Madam President, you have been very generous with time, but it continues to run. Mrs Merckx, you really are dur de comprenure. Let me repeat what is at stake here. It is indeed about that form, but I have always said, from my very first statement on it, that if those people do not fill out that form, they will be invited. The sanction measure, if it is already in place, shall not intervene on that invitation, nor on the finding that the form has not been completed. Those people will be addressed, helped, invited. I've always said that. Please do not start saying that we are saying something different than a week ago or two weeks ago. Indeed, in the parliamentary debate, I said that we want to examine how we can avoid leaving the form to people who really do not qualify for it. In fact, we do want to avoid the form being distributed to everyone. We will work on that, and we will look again at the form itself. The people we hope to offer new opportunities are people who are classified in category 4. We expect sufficient people from that category to start a journey effectively. There is absolutely no pressure on medical advisers to place as many people as possible in category 4. Those who claim that tell tales. Madam President, I propose that we stick to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u34	The floor is in Parliament. But I would point out that this is not a debate and that we are not even discussing the slightest line of an existing text. I think we spent many hours there last week. Today I fully understand, but out of respect for the services, I wish we could continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic600x.u35	I will decide, Minister. The last word has not yet been said. I'm detecting that the lines are moving. The notification says there's no response to that letter. You can read the ACV press release. It was about the questionnaire and the conversation. I'm glad there's movement in that area. We will be very critical of that. You'll make sure it goes to the right people. Then you must ensure that more resources go to the mutualities, because that is really a problem today. If you say that there is no pressure on the medical advisors, you should read the reactions of the various mutualities, about the pressure they experience throughout that process. In any case, the last word has not yet been said on these measures.
