ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u1	Minister, this morning we were told that the social partners have reached an agreement on a number of important social dossiers. It must be said that at a crucial moment the social partners had a historic opportunity to put our labour market in a new, modern environment. However, if we read what has been agreed, we can only conclude that they have not grasped that opportunity and that it is mainly old wine in new bags. Looking at the summary of this agreement, it appears to be particularly inactivation, which is difficult to reconcile with the ambition of this government to go to an activity rate of 80%. For young people, although the minimum gross wage is rising, we are of course in favour of more for everyone at the end of the month, especially those who work at low wages. However, this cannot be done by increasing gross wage costs, especially by reducing labour costs. Here we note that the minimum wage is indeed rising, but that a lot of young people will fall out of the boat. The threshold for young people with short-term skills to get to work is, of course, higher, as gross wage costs increase. Of course, that can never be the intention. The minimum wage is therefore rising, but the number of people who will receive that wage will undoubtedly fall. This is particularly difficult to reconcile with the ambition to increase the level of effectiveness. As far as the elderly are concerned, the possibility is already being opened up for all or some of them to be sidetracked from the age of 55. Of course, this is not good for their employment opportunities, nor for the financing of social security, but it is, above all, a very strange and painful signal to tell 55-year-old workers that we do not really need them so much anymore. When we look at the Flemish labour market, however, it turns out that we need all the hands we can get, because there are a lot of vacancies that have not been filled in for a long time. Reverting the boarding age for runways and relaxing the SWT are a way to push older people out of the labour market even faster than today, while we should do the opposite. I also told you last week in plenary that a high level of youth activity and a high level of youth activity go hand in hand in almost all European countries. Apparently, that's what people are afraid of here. What is particularly regrettable, of course, is that I can also conclude agreements with the two parties, employers and employees, in order to pass on the invoice for an important piece to the government and thus actually to the taxpayer. This raises a number of questions, especially as we see that the agreement does not contain any one activating measure. My question is therefore very simple. Firstly, how do you think that the agreement that has been concluded is compatible with the government's very punitive ambition to increase the level of activity to 80%? I don't see that with the best will in the world. Secondly, will the government approve this agreement effectively or will you put a stop to the kind of agreements that we now have, whereby taxpayers have to pay for recipes that are mainly inactive rather than activating?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u2	Mr Minister, I was looking at whether you had a smile on your face, but I couldn't see it from so far and I don't think there should be a smile on your face either. You may have a preliminary agreement with the social partners, but you must not be proud of it. I have a few questions to ask you. You would have expected that, since I've been interviewing you about this every week for the last six months. Although I expected some things last night, I have to admit that I fell halfway off my chair this morning when I opened the media messages. If I see what finally came out of the bus compared to what you suggested earlier... First there was the discussion to impose the margin of 0.4% with a maximum bonus of 500 euro net. It was already clear that the unions said about this that they didn't take this and that they wanted more. There would then be an agreement on minimum wages, overtime, early retirement, you name it. I will return to the last plenary session on 3 June. Then you said, and I repeat your words here explicitly: 'In a wealthy and prosperous country, it is unacceptable that workers working at minimum wage should not be able to sustain themselves. We agree on that, but we were talking about a broader group of employees than just about 60,000 people you are talking about and for whom you are taking a small step, with still an empty box. In your election propaganda, you talked about 14 euros. I'm just a worker, but I'm also good at math. Even in eight years' time, you won't get that amount for those people. In a common front, the trade unions sent a brochure to all members of parliament to reaffirm their opposition to the 1996 law, which was strengthened in 2017. One of the various arguments put forward is that the straitjacket introduced by Belgian legislation would be contrary to the basic labour standard laid down in Treaty No. 98 of the International Labour Organization on the right to collective bargaining. What can you say to that? Do you think the government's course of action is in line with that treaty? As far as overtime is concerned, as the PVDA feared, it has come true. 2020 was a hectic year, there was a rapid shift and crisis measures were taken. Whole sectors were in need and there was already thought out of the box. Exceptional situations require exceptional solutions. I do not want to count the number of times I have asked you whether these solutions were there, hopefully, only during the corona period. The answer you know better than I do, it would be "exceptional measures." One of these exceptional solutions was to increase the number of voluntary overtime in the key sectors. A maximum of 120 additional hours could be worked without the agreement of the trade union delegation: 120 overtime which is not paid for, no RSZ contribution is levied, which is not subject to company tax and is not included in the internal limit between the maximum number of overtime in a reference period. We just go back 50 years in time! But that was urgently needed at the time. Then. Although the situation was very different a year later, the scheme was extended until 30 June. Now it appears that employers are also on the table for the negotiations on the Ipa. What's your opinion on the extra overtime? How do they fit into your policy plan to improve working conditions in key sectors and essential services? Finally, on the preliminary agreement, although we still have to analyse the various measures in detail, I must admit that we are certainly not enthusiastic about it. So I'd like to ask a few additional questions. Are you, as Minister of Work, planning to sign on this basis the Royal Decree imposing a maximum wage margin of 0.4%, or are you going to allow the sectors to continue to negotiate freely? What is proportional in terms of employers' share according to this preliminary agreement and what is the share for social security? Will the agreement not ensure a continuation of the tax shift system, again bringing a lot of public money to the big companies and their shareholders? What happens to the tailor-made companies, the service cheque sector and those who earn slightly more than the 70,000 people with minimum wage? What about these low wages? Do you expect their wages to rise? I come to a very painful point, to which I shall return, how is it possible for a Socialist Minister of Work to agree to an extension of working time? Before covid we had a reduction in working time and now you are increasing the number of overtime by 120 hours. Do you agree that this is absolutely not done? As regards early retirement for heavy-duty occupations, it will not be possible to discuss their career end before the 60th.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u3	Madam President, today is a very special day. It is a coincidence that we have returned questions to the minister in order to have a record of the negotiations when we have already received the information from the press this morning. Today is a day of satisfaction with the fact that social consultation has worked. It is a factor of social peace and has been stressed on many occasions. As such, the fact that the social partners can reach agreement on four different issues is very good news. In the conclusions of this agreement reached last night, we find different things that will not please all. This is often the principle of an agreement. I will highlight the increase in the minimum wage, which will increase by 76 euros in gross in 2022. For the Ecolo group, it was essential. Of course, this development is slow. As you said, Minister, the minimum wage has not changed since 2008. The agreement can be described as historical. The minimum wage is rising, the government has announced that it will do so and the social partners have agreed on this. It's essential and it's good news. As he announced, the government takes on its responsibilities by putting on the table a series of things that will allow the outcome of the negotiations. The increase in this minimum wage is a concrete measure. Reading it in the press may seem vague, but it is concrete and it changes the lives of tens of thousands of people who receive a minimum wage. I would also like to point out the end-of-career jobs which will now be available from the age of 55. It's a way to soften the end of your career when you want to reduce your working time and it's a great thing. I'm very happy about that. Mr Minister, we mentioned the fact that the minimum wage, like a whole series of support during the crisis, would be calculated out of wage standards. Do you confirm that the increase in the minimum wage is found outside wage standards 2021-2022 and outside the terms of corrections? The second point of attention concerns the relaxation of overtime. This is a point of attention because, in particular, in the exchanges that we have often had in this committee, and most recently with SIRS, flexibilisation, when it is not chosen by the worker, is not a factor of well-being. On the contrary, when chosen, it can be a factor of well-being. I would ask you, in any case in the context of this measure decided by the social partners, to have particular attention and an assessment of how this is discussed. The intention of the social partners is to increase voluntary overtime. I note that this is a measure that is temporary until 2022 or 2023. I am positive about this temporary nature because we are in a period of crisis and it is a question of giving purchasing power but also of allowing companies to continue their activities. I will conclude with an element that is rather the order of the meta. Since the government is taking its responsibilities and is going, as you announced, to put a series of tax and parafiscal measures on the table to accompany this increase in the minimum wage, it is essential that, moreover, in the Council of Ministers, you can plead at any time for tax justice so that those who benefit from the government's support measures are not the ones who pay the bill either. It is very important that these measures be accompanied by tax justice. Finally, of course, efforts on competitiveness must also be able to address issues other than wages. In conclusion, I would also like to ask you whether the circulars are still on the agenda with regard to the increase and the wage standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u4	Minister, my question is somewhat dated, but I expected or hoped there would be an agreement. We knew there were final negotiations last weekend. I hear various speeches about extending working time and working time. Others talk about far too little activation and flexibility. A balanced agreement between employers and workers is on the table today, which is moving forward on the four themes of minimum wages, harmonisation of pensions, runways and overtime, and which has landed well in the proposal, to put it in the terms of social dialogue. I also see extensions, for example in the case of employers' contributions of 0.10 % for risk groups. It is also important that outplacement comes back into the text and that the non-outplacen is further fined. I am also thinking of commuting and the 80/20 scheme. So there are many points in the agreement that go further. I have two concerns. In the proposal on runways, I myself took a number of initiatives in the framework of the Brexit and the covid measures in 2020. For us, it is very important that runways also lead effectively to keeping 55-plussers on the labour market. Of course, this is linked to workable work for those involved. Today we often feel that this also coincides with incapacity for work. The objective is to keep them longer on the labour market, but the objective of the measure is not always achieved. It is therefore very important to attach conditions to this. On minimum wages, I have the same questions as the previous speaker. The government had also left room for fiscal and social measures that could accompany this. What will these measures be? Do you have a visual on a budget? How will you and the government continue to deal with the matter? Minister, what is on the table today is a balanced agreement. I look forward to your answer, to see what further steps you will take in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u5	Mr Minister, I think we should first of all welcome the social partners who have shown wisdom, without overbidding, in contrast to a few policies. In any case, I hope that the agreement that is emerging will not only be validated by the various bodies, but also fully implemented. Does the government intend, yes or no, to fully implement this agreement? To touch it would, in my view, clearly risk undermining the agreement and its balance. Secondly, the government referred to an additional budget. In a plenary session, I had already asked for a plea to be made in favour of tax paths, particularly with a view to raising wages. Is this amount provided by the government for tax and parafiscal measures? If so, do you have any details in this regard? What budget will be used and for what purposes? On the other hand, as far as pensions are concerned, I think that end-of-care adjustments are still viewed negatively by some policies, which argue that these adjustments will lead to a reduction in employment. In my personal capacity, I have always argued for quantitative and qualitative end-of-career adjustments, as this also helps to keep staff in employment and to benefit from the expertise of the oldest in companies, as well as to increase the employment rate of the 55-65 year-olds. We know that we have to meet this challenge, both for the increase in overall employment and for the sustainability of pension financing. However, the end-of-career arrangements should not distract us from the attention to be paid to difficult jobs. In this regard, promises have been made under the previous legislature, but they have not been kept or validated. In this government's agreement, the recognition of difficult trades is purely and simply a trap, which, in my personal capacity, strikes me. Was this point addressed in the tripartite negotiations? If so, what was the government's response? Finally, it will be necessary to exercise extreme vigilance not to take back what has been given by the other hand, and to ensure that the wage increases announced are actually fully realized for the workers concerned. All too often, tax aspects have the result that a part of it, in any case, is caught. I shall conclude as I have begun, welcoming the social partners. In essence, beyond successive governments, they have the capacity to put in place a framework for winning agreements for both workers and entrepreneurs. They also have the capacity to put in place a framework conducive to the solidity of social peace. I think that this is especially more important than usual in the context of the recovery and, admittedly, the difficulties some companies will face in the context of economic recovery. It was a major issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u6	Other people, whose group has not yet spoken, wish to speak. Mr Bombled has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u7	Mr Minister, a framework agreement was reached last night by the social partners. The agreement covers the four menu files contained in the government's conciliation proposal, whether in terms of minimum wages or supplementary pensions, but also in terms of flexibility and career ends, not to mention the extension of traditional arrangements contained in all previous PIAs. The social partners believe that this agreement is an important element leading to competitiveness, growth, employment and serenity and social peace in sectors and enterprises. It is, however, up to the decision-making committees of the trade unions to decide. The meetings of these bodies would be scheduled for 22 June. Minister, I assume that the government can only be satisfied with the agreement reached last night in the G10. This agreement proves that social consultation is still possible in our country. I would also like to know what happens to the wage standard set at 0.4% by the Central Economic Council and to the government's proposal for the possibility of granting, on a voluntary basis, an exceptional premium of up to EUR 500 in companies that have performed well despite the crisis. Are these two elements also part of last night's G10 agreement? If this is not the case, do you confirm that the decision on these two points will be taken by the government through the adoption of a royal decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u8	Minister, my group would like to stress that we consider it very important that the social partners concluded an agreement last night in difficult circumstances. That'll give some oxygen to the social consultation. The social partners also show that they are able to conclude agreements, which gives their levers to settle certain issues. We are, of course, satisfied with the increase in minimum wages. It has been since 2008 that such a step has been taken. It is very important, after all, that there are many essential workers who work for a minimum wage and that steps are taken forward in this respect. In what way will this measure be socially and fiscally supported by the government? I would also point out that, as far as runways are concerned, there is a trend break with the past in the agreement. The previous government has raised the retirement age. We all had to work longer, but it was not arranged how all this was to be achieved. On the contrary, a number of measures were even phased out. The social partners are aware that this is not realistic at all and that more framework is needed before the end of the career, allowing runways to return from 55 years of age. That is also my question to the government. I hope that will be supported, because that is the key: collective agreements still allow that, but of course it is about how the benefits and the framework of the runways will be implemented. My colleagues have also asked questions that I will not repeat, but what are the other measures and how will the government implement the social agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u9	Of course, Minister, I will not repeat what has already been said. I was pleasantly surprised when I read in the newspaper this morning that there is an agreement on a lot of things. However, I have a few more questions. Is there any more clarity about the EUR 500 that companies that have done well can grant? Are initiatives taken by the government in this respect? The employment rate is also always linked to such an agreement. It must, of course, go up, because that is the ambition the government has set itself. I would like to hear what initiatives are being taken to strengthen this objective. I would also like to join the colleague of the MR in asking for the 1996 law to continue to be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your many questions on this important subject, which concerns the negotiation between the social partners of the interprofessional agreement but also a series of important topics. I am pleased to be able to respond to this today, on the very day of the agreement reached between the social partners. As some of you have done, I would like to pay tribute to the work done by the social partners over the past few days and throughout this negotiating night. I welcome their sense of responsibility and the agreement that seems to me to be a balanced agreement and a "bel landing", as Mrs Muylle said. We owe that respect to the social partners, Mr Colebunders. You have presented things as ultimately a government decision. It's lending me a lot of power. And if it is true that we have done everything possible to ensure that an agreement is possible in a difficult context on which I will come back in a few moments, it is an agreement which has been sealed by the social partners, i.e. by the representatives of the workers and by the representatives of the employers. You know this is part of our social model. It is one of the pillars of our social model. To hear you, Mr. Colebunders, a few moments ago, I had the impression that you were questioning this model, our social model, which has demonstrated its ability to make important decisions and to ensure that there are balanced agreements for the benefit of workers and for the benefit of the business community. This is an important step, but it is not the end of the journey. As you know, the government agreement is very clear on the ambitious and important goal of achieving an employment rate of 80% by 2030. I fully subscribe to it. This, of course, requires agreements such as this one. This also requires a series of reforms in which the social partners will be involved. I am thinking in particular of pension reform, labour market reforms and the annual Employment Conference, which this year will focus on harmonious career goals. Like some of you, including Mrs Fonck, I share the need to ensure that career ends are as harmonious as possible and as painless as possible, allowing older people to remain in the labour market, to continue to work, but in conditions that take into account their life course, career path, state of health and willingness to remain involved in the labour market. This agreement is an important step in a difficult context. It's not up to me to tell you, you who have been interrogating me every week for several months. The legal framework of the 1996 Act, as amended in 2017, reduced the flexibility of the social partners to negotiate, and especially the flexibility of the trade union bench. Moreover, although today the prospects for economic recovery are better than what was envisaged a few weeks or months ago, the economic context is particularly upset and creating uncertainty with regard to its evolution. I am very pleased that the social partners were able to conclude this balanced agreement last night. As you know, it is no surprise to you that the social partners have failed to agree on the wage standard, despite all the efforts we have made, the Prime Minister and I, together with the government as a whole, to try to facilitate the conclusion of such an agreement. They let us know soon enough, by a first letter. But they also undertook, on the basis of the mediation proposal we made to them, to negotiate on other important issues. First of all, and perhaps this is something that we tend to forget, there are negotiations and the conclusion of an agreement on the welfare envelopes. I'll call him back because it's a very important point. We have presented to the social partners a proposal for the distribution of the welfare envelope. Thanks to this proposal, an agreement was reached on this. As a reminder, it concerns the increase in the lowest social benefits and some older benefits. This is not nothing and I would like to remind you, because when I hear some, it seems to have been written off and forgotten: it is an increase of the minimum pensions of 60 euros per month from 1 July, that is 720 euros per year. Some blame my party and myself for forgetting campaign promises. This is not the case since we have committed ourselves to raising the lowest pensions as well as other allowances such as social integration income, income replacement allowance for disabled people with an increase of 45 euros per month, i.e. 550 euros per year. Another example is that of a couple of pensioners who benefit from a holiday grant which will increase by 41 euros in 2021. As regards unemployment benefits, the calculation ceilings are increased and the monthly increases are significant: €47.58 per month for a head of household; €26.78 for isolated persons; and €21.58 for cohabitants. I would like to point out that these are essential increases in order to combat the poverty of the beneficiaries of social benefits. With regard to the wage standard, the Government proposed, in accordance with the Law of 96, a mediation text which included several elements: firstly, the calculation of the wage standard, as defined in the report of the Central Economic Council, the possibility of not accounting in the margin for certain measures relating to the organisation of work in the context of the Corona crisis, in the framework of certain agreements at sectoral level and in the light of certain bonuses granted in certain sectors. I would repeat that, for me, this was an important point, because there was no question that workers who had received a bonus, a bonus during the crisis would then be penalized. These are workers who have been in the line of fire during the crisis and who are still doing so today: staff in the healthcare sector, but also staff in supermarkets. These workers have rightly received bonuses. It is obvious to me that they should not be punished for a structural wage increase. That is why I am pleased that I have obtained this exception from my colleagues in the government. It shows that we are all aware of all the efforts made by these workers, often at low wages and with uncertain contracts. It was really important for me to ensure that all these elements were excluded from the calculation and did not come to snack this wage margin. I would also like to recall the EUR 500 net coronary premium, to which the employer has added an exceptional social security contribution of 16.5%. This premium can be negotiated within sectors and companies and can also be used to buy food in all types of stores, to consume in horeca establishments, to pay for contact trades. In short, it can be spent in the Belgian economy without any limitation or restriction for the different beneficiary sectors linked to a closure condition, as was the case in the first wave with the consumer cheque. Clearly, the government's will is to ensure that this coronary premium can be injected into the Belgian economy as quickly as possible for the benefit of the workers. The mediation text called on the social partners to negotiate, as a matter of priority, on four issues, with a commitment from the government to ensure that the agreement that would be reached in these four themes was supported and accompanied by the government. We are talking about catching up with the minimum wage, the deadline for harmonization between workers and employees on supplementary pensions, a time-limited overtime quota for the period 2021-2022 and career ends. The issue of the minimum wage was a priority for me. First, because the minimum wage has not increased since 2008, except for indexation, which has meant that the drop-out from the median wage has only increased. The ratio between the minimum wage and the median wage was 53 per cent in 2008 and is now only 48 per cent. It was therefore essential for me that this increase in the minimum wage should form part of the agreement and be done with a certain speed, in any case with a first step from this period of interprofessional agreement 2021-2022. The social partners have embarked on a trajectory covering several IPAs with an important first step on 1 April 2022. I repeat, it was essential for me that those who get up in the morning to go to work, do so for a decent, decent wage that would allow them to live. It's fundamental in a state like ours. Contrary to the way you talk about things, Mr. Anseeuw, I am one of those who think that the increase in the minimum wage helps to remove the pitfalls in employment and to ensure that men and women are more willing to go to work for a decent salary. Moreover, since the work of Alan Krueger in 1994, it is absolutely not at all attested that the increase in the minimum wage has a negative impact on job creation, only on the contrary. The effect would be rather positive, in different respects: on the employment rate – it is important – but also in the fight against poverty and insecurity – it is equally important. It is for this reason that I wanted the increase in the minimum wage to be on the agenda of negotiations between the social partners. The agreement which has been reached responds to this concern with, of course, a double commitment: that of the employer's bank, and that of the government to support the efforts made by the employer's bank to increase this minimum wage. It was important that these two components be at the heart of the negotiations, and that the government's commitment be clear and clear. The issue of career ends is also important, and I have made it the theme of the Annual Employment Conference this year. It is essential that older workers remain able to work. That can only be done if they can work under good conditions. We also have to take into account the heaviness of the job or the length of the career, comme je l'ai dit il y a quelques instants. For example, we need to adapt the end of the career, for example for those who are ill or who have worked for many years. As I have said on several occasions in this House, I believe that these two dossiers, together with those relating to overtime, the increase in the deadlines for the harmonization of the second pillar of pensions between employees and workers, were such as to enable a balanced agreement between trade unions and employers. That's what happened last night. Again, I welcome this agreement. As regards the minimum wage again, this increase is significant, since by 2026 it will reach 150 euros net per month for all workers receiving the inter-professional minimum wage. A new step will be taken in 2028. It still needs to be defined, particularly with regard to the competitiveness of our labour market and our economy vis-à-vis our neighbours. This increase would also apply to all workers with a sectoral minimum wage, which is close to the guaranteed average monthly income (RMMG). Indeed, as you know, the interprofessional minimum wage is a floor. As a result, sectoral minimum wages will have to be systematically adjusted at the time of the four interprofessional minimum wage increases. We are talking, for example, about workers in the Joint Committee 100, the leather and paper sectors, the socio-cultural sector, the tourist attractions sector and small food shops. When we hear some claim that the increase in the minimum wage is not significant and concerns very few workers, I can tell you that this is not true. This is incorrect, both for the minimum wage as such, and for the consequences on sectoral minimum wages in several activities. The social partners have also concluded an agreement on career ends. Collective agreements relating to the unemployment system, together with an additional enterprise, will be extended by two years. From the perspective of ending the crisis, this seems important to me. Similarly, end-of-career jobs will be made available half-time from the age of 55. As I have already mentioned, this measure is intended to make career ends as harmonious as possible and to keep older people in employment so that they can organise their end of career as precisely as possible. In this way, they can also act as mentors for young people entering the labour market. This initiative is part of this path and concerns. With regard to the increase in the temporary quota of voluntary overtime for 2021 and 2022, I hear Mr Colebunders complaining that he lied and said that the temporary crisis support measures would be extended. I repeat, the agreement reached last night is an agreement between the social partners. They are the ones who, in the search for a balance and agreement, have decided to ensure that voluntary overtime as part of the support and crisis measures is part of a recovery process, with a similar mechanism but limited in time to two exercises - 2021 and 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the general question, this agreement is very fresh. It dates from that night, this morning, from dawn. It must now be examined in detail by the government and I will obviously strongly advocate that the government faithfully and fully implement this agreement reached by the social partners this morning. I think it is the logic, the spirit and the letter of our government agreement that clearly states that the government will implement the agreements between the social partners. As I have said from the beginning, I believe that this agreement is part of a broader process with, on the one hand, the aspects of the 1996 Act and, on the other, all the exemptions that I have undertaken, with the support of the government, to grant. I am thinking, in particular, of removing the increase in the minimum wage from the margin calculation; of Immunizing from the margin calculation a whole series of other measures, benefits and compensation granted to workers. I am also thinking of those four themes that were agreed on last night. As I said and I repeat, the mediation proposal was a whole submitted to the social partners: a more specific part of the 1996 law and a more specific part on four important themes. In my mind, it is quite clear that, if the mediation proposal were to form a whole, the agreement reached that night would also form a whole and would have to be carried out in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed answer. I asked you two questions. My first question was whether the government will approve this and you were very clear about it. If it depends on you, the government will approve. More than that, you will probably even let the band pass in front of the door to give it a festive touch. Although there is little to party about, because I come to the second question. How is this agreement compatible with the government's very punitive ambition to increase the level of activity to 80%? There you remain guilty of the answer, and I understand that, because one cannot be reconciled with the other. It must be very clear that approving this agreement is equivalent to throwing overboard just about everything that has anything to do with that expensive promise in the government agreement regarding the rate of effectiveness of 80%. If the Croo government approves this agreement, then it is the liberals themselves who bury the Swedish legacy, which has its merit in terms of activating policy, forever. This is a very expensive price that society, and especially the taxpayer, must pay for some political peace in this government. Of course, people have to have more left at the end of the month than is the case today. Of course, those lowest net wages need to be raised. There you have misunderstood me, probably not willingly, but nevertheless. You make abstraction of the difference between gross and net wages. We both want net wages to go up, but we have a different recipe for that. You are doing this, including with this agreement, by increasing gross wages, which is detrimental to the competitiveness of our companies. Our proposal is that the government should show solidarity with employers and employees and not allow gross wage costs to rise, but rather reduce labour costs. That way, people will have something left in the end. That's how I imagine business. I do want net wages to go up without gross wages rising so that our jobs are not compromised. I would like to come back to the older workers. Of course, workable work is important, and that is part of the perspective that we have to give to older workers. However, the only perspective given here is the prospect of being able to get on a sidetrack even faster than before, which many of these workers do not ask at all. I think that more than ever, we must respect the knowledge, skills and experience they have and also appreciate and keep them on the job for longer in the context of workable work, but not offer the prospect of getting sidetracked at fifty-five. I don't think that's a good story. The other relaxations in the SWT story are also not activating measures. On the contrary, they are inactivation measures that once again send the message to older workers that we do not really need them so much anymore. That's a very bad signal for those people. This is an inactivation agreement that is detrimental to the Flemish labour market, where many vacancies are already not filled. That is why I would like to call on those Members who are part of the majority, and especially the colleagues from CD&V and Open Vld, to reject this agreement because it is inactivating and because it transfers the invoice to the taxpayer. This way I can also make agreements, if someone else pays the bill. This agreement will not only transfer the invoice to the taxpayer today but also in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u12	Mr. Secretary, I really don't know where to start. You've said so much that you've only hunted me down. You have said a lot and put forward the good news show, but in fact this is a black day that you, as a socialist minister, are putting forward here as if it were a preliminary agreement. However, you have a draft agreement. You do not yet have an agreement, because the grassroots still have to take a stand on this. You blame me for not believing in the social dialogue, but then you really don't remember what I said to you in January during my first speech on the Ipa. This isn't social consultation. You put the knife to the social partners with the 0.4% or nothing. Then, to give it a chance as a government, you put forward some proposals. You have put the employers' organizations in their seats. You have given these employers' organizations an asset that the unions have simply silenced. How can you say that the people who have worked are rewarded? Where's the size industry, where's the cleaning women, the service cheques? Where are these people? In this agreement they are not even eligible because they are slightly above the minimum wage. You're acting like you've given gifts. In eight years, these people will have an increase that you're proud of. For this purpose, the trade unions are shut down the next four IPA negotiations. We don't need to talk about it anymore. You don't say that today. Let me give you an example. Hassan is 55 years old, he's worked in construction all his life, he's worked hard, and he's now worked his ass off. What gift do you give Hassan? He's getting a pile of overtime that's not gonna pay him anything for his retirement. He's gonna have to work longer. Last night was still 59 years on paper to negotiate. The unions applied for a bridge pension at 58 years old and received 60 years on their sandwiches. Which man in construction, in the heavy professions, can work for up to 60 years? Nobody! I can give you that on a note. You know what else I think is the worst? You are acting as if we are strangers to the world, whereas the figures for weeks have been that the long-term sick are mainly from the category 55-plus. You just throw it in the garbage can. You reward these people by making them work even longer, by making them work even more overtime. And you are proud of that, proud as a socialist minister. This is just absurd. You want to bring the employment rate to 80 %. I hardly ever agree with my colleagues from N-VA. You're throwing a lot of overtime now. What will this employer do? Do you think he's gonna hire one more employee? Do you really think so? Do you believe in this story? Am I foreign to the world when I say this, Minister? Do you believe that by making people work longer, the old generation will be able to train the new? When? When they're broken? When they are sick and thrown into the street by the health insurance fund and have to live on a benefit? That is the reality. Those figures are there, but you don't want to see them, Minister. You just don't want to see it. Wake up! And get out on the street. Why don't you take a look at these heavy-duty professions and tell them that this is a good agreement? Then you deserve my respect again, but not now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u13	I appreciate the importance of the subject and I therefore give a little more time to the colleagues who are speaking. I would ask you to make a real effort on the following questions, when the topical and urgent debate is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u14	Madam President, my speech will be even shorter as I have exceeded my speaking time earlier. Thank you, Minister, for the details of this agreement reached last night between the social partners. As you pointed out, this agreement has been the subject of a long journey and a negotiation that has been making sense for months and which calls for a great deal of respect. I therefore, of course, welcome the work of the social partners and the work of the government in all the negotiations that you have been talking about in recent months. This agreement is currently being reviewed by the government, as you said, and by the unions. You have committed yourself to fully implementing it, which deserves to be stressed, as it demonstrates the respect this government shows for the social partners. I just wanted to go back to the increase in gross wages and the possibility of a reduction in working time at 55 years of age. This is a way of conveying knowledge and it is things that go in the right direction, in the sense of a society and a work that can be done, which enables a worker to complete his or her career in the most positive way possible, passing on his or her knowledge and exhausting himself or herself as little as possible. Thank you for all the answers you gave us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I'm gonna be brief. I am sure that many of these aspects will be re-examined in the next few weeks. Mr Anseuw, we are pleased that there is an agreement. We have always said that agreements must be made at the table. It is not surprising that an invoice of social consultation is being passed on to the government. I think this is happening in Flanders too. In that sense, you should not be so surprised, but of course the costs must be taken into account. That space was also left by the government to take social fiscal measures. The criticism of the runways is not new either. I see that the Flemish Government also provides an incentive premium for runways in the social profit sector. These are instruments used by other governments in this country. I believe that today we are taking an important third step in the three-stage process of social dialogue with the welfare envelope, the wage standard and this third step, a preliminary agreement on the Ipa. It is now up to the government to carry this forward. The discussion will certainly be continued. Minister, the autumn conference is important in this respect. We have made a great deal of effort to incorporate the issue of end-of-life into the text of the coalition agreement. With great respect, Mr Colebunders, this is a much broader debate than what you are saying today. It's about workable work, it's about manoeuvrable work, it's about so much more than what's being put on the table here today. I look forward to the September conference, Minister. This will certainly be continued in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u16	Minister, I have taken note of all the elements of your response. First of all, I would like to address some colleagues. Indeed, I have heard strong words. In particular, there was talk of a nightmare day. I believe, for my part, that the duty of the policy, even if it is in the opposition, is not to stir up the trade union or the employers' bench, but to support the social partners and to respect the work done by them in order to enable the basis to decide. There must be no question of entering into a small political game with a very binary vision, according to the political party that expresses itself, and according to which either the unions or the employers are big bad guys. I thought in the 21st century, we had gone beyond this binary and rather pathetic vision of society and the world of work. For the rest, minister, the ball is in the government camp. I will obviously be attentive to your statements, to the translation of the agreement and to the respect for it. As regards, in particular, the translation aspect, inequalities will have to be reduced without endangering our competitiveness. Indeed, recovery will be difficult, and company support must be clearly maintained. I am thinking in particular of the maintenance and development of employment. I will not dwell on all aspects because we will have the opportunity to return to them. But I would like to dwell, for a moment, on one last point. You talked about the care staff who are under the responsibility of the non-market and who are not involved in this PIA. So I was a little surprised that you did. The question of whether or not the PIA should apply to non-marketers could be discussed at length. I don't know at all what your intention was when you talked about the care staff. But maybe you could clarify things. In any event, this is another framework, another area, other agreements, in this case non-market agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. The agreement between the social partners shows that the consultation is working. We welcome the reduction of taxes on low wages, starting in 2022, by means of the bonus. We have always defended this reduction in taxation, and it is in line with the tax shift introduced under the previous legislature. As you said, minister, if the agreement reached this night is an important step, it does not mark the end of the journey. One of the next steps will be to reflect and work together to achieve the 80 per cent employment rate target, set out in the government agreement, with fair wages for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer on the various aspects of the agreement. I am going to read the agreement carefully, all the details, because sometimes the details also contain concrete improvements that people also need. I look forward to the further implementation and roll-out of this. The ball is now in the government's camp to give concrete implementation. I am also looking forward to that important employment conference in the autumn on end-of-life and pension reform. For me, one thing is connected with the other. There's a lot of raging statements being made here. Now it often comes down to the fact that older people are sometimes dumped and do not get opportunities, while they still want to stay at work. Other people just can't do it anymore. Indeed, it is important to honour that experience and the knowledge of those people and to include them in the whole career policy so that they can have the opportunities they deserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u19	Minister, we must also remember that we were faced with an enormous crisis. This has had a huge impact on our companies and on employment. Our government's support measures have ensured that the number of redundancies has remained within the limits during that period. Many initiatives can be taken to strengthen this activation policy in the future. We have also had interesting hearings on this subject. Post-corona is something we really need to pursue. We can also work on this. For example, I will have an oral question for you with a more flexible way of moving to another job. The crisis has shown that, provided training, people can give a completely different turn to their careers. In this way, we can take initiatives to allow this flexibility in the labour market. I am also curious about the way in which the government will deal with this agreement. We will, of course, also go through it in detail and will continue to follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u20	Mrs De Jonge, I would like to point out that this agreement has little to do with the corona crisis, to which you refer. It is an agreement that, as you probably know but dare not say, has no activating element in it. The Minister has just said that he is being accused of swallowing his electoral promises. He cannot be blamed for this, but that cannot be said of every government party. The inactivating character...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u21	Thank you very much, Mr Anseuw. This is not a discussion between you and colleague De Jonge.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u22	Yes, I did, because I was addressed myself, by Mrs Muylle among others. I note that a number of parties want to bury their own inheritance on the hood of today's taxpayers and tomorrow's taxpayers and also on the hood of the most vulnerable in our labour market. I'm very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u23	I apologise for my long speech earlier, but the debate was far too important. We've been working on it for six months. It couldn't have been otherwise. Temporary unemployment due to force majeure has been extended until 30 September. However, this is not the equivalent of the periods of temporary unemployment for the annual holiday allowance. The equivalence ended on 31 December. Those people will be put on temporary unemployment due to corona in the first half of 2021. They will not see that period translated into the holiday money of 2022. Why is the period until 30 September 2021 not considered equivalent to the holiday allowance? Are you still committed to equalizing that period? Isn't it time to set that equivalence even after the corona crisis for the holiday money?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u24	Mr Colebunders, the government implemented the agreement of the social partners of 11 September 2020 by aligning temporary coronavirus unemployment with the calculation of the annual holiday in 2020. Indeed, the agreement between the social partners provided for this equivalence for 2020. To date, the social partners have not requested an extension of the measure for 2021. It is important that the government respects the agreements with the social partners. To date, the social partners have not, as I have just said, requested an extension of this measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u25	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your reply. In fact, they are punished twice, once by the loss of pay, for temporary unemployment, and once by the loss of holiday pay. A small month ago, I had a little discussion with your colleague about the taxation of these benefits in the hemisphere, and now you are adding a third penalty because the social partners do not ask for this. In our view, temporary unemployment due to force majeure should also be treated in the same way for holiday allowances. I have no doubt that we will be discussing this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u26	As Mr Ducarme was not present, his question No 55017785C became moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u27	Madam President, Minister, following the investigation of the BBI, GLS and PostNL have now been brought before the courts by the Labour Auditorate in Mechelen. The problem is well known to us all: they work with bogus self-employed people. If they cannot deliver the desired number of packages, they in turn hire other self-employed workers. In short, there is a whole carousel of social fraud, but also tax fraud and VAT fraud going on. Those vans on our roads are actually developing a race to the bottom, with Waze as a kind of guideline. The government agreement states that there will be an evaluation of the employment relationship law, and that extra attention will be paid to the social protection of platform workers. Hence my questions. What steps have already been taken to implement the coalition agreement? Is there any consultation with the social partners, have their opinions been requested, have they been asked for an evaluation and what is the timing? And are you also thinking of other initiatives? Because there is also the platform economy in addition to parcel delivery, and there are certainly other sectors where false self-employed people are employed. Will they also be included in the exercise?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u28	Madam President, Minister, last February we heard that the BBI was conducting an investigation into the subcontractors delivering parcels for PostNL in Belgium. There were already suspicions at the time of non-payment of VAT and other taxes. In addition, companies declared bankrupt and continued to deliver packages for PostNL as approved subcontractors. Today we hear that PostNL and GLS are being prosecuted by the Mechelen court for social fraud. There would be sufficient evidence of structural fraud. The press mentions that drivers' working conditions would be very poor with very long working days, inadequate health measures and unpaid staff. There would be effective undeclared work and false self-employment. The trade unions' communication states that these companies do not pay any social contribution to their drivers. They shun any responsibility and place it entirely with the independent contractor. I have the following questions about all of this. What do you think of these accusations? What have you done to prevent the facts if, according to you and the court, they did take place and find them? What will you do to stop the large companies in the sector from circumventing Belgian social legislation and using bogus self-employed workers? What measures could you take, particularly in cases of such subcontracting? Have you been in contact with the trade unions of the companies concerned? What commitments have you made? The labour auditors invited bpost for a discussion as a potentially disadvantaged party. Can you tell us more about that? To what extent could bpost be affected? What could the government's reaction be to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u29	It is clear that abuse and fraud must be combated. As you know, an investigation is under way. So I will not rule on this particular case. I would like to remind you that within the framework of the SIRS Annual Action Plan against Social Fraud, there are a minimum of 900 controls in the transport sector, including courier services, within the framework of the borough cells. These checks, carried out by the inspection services, enable the labour auditor to take legal action. The law on labour relations is the tool to tackle bogus self-employment. It must allow for a proper qualification of the employment relationship. In high-risk sectors, such as transport, there are specific criteria of socio-economic dependence which activate a rebuttable presumption of employee status when a majority of the criteria are met. We have asked the social partners in the National Labour Council to evaluate the law on employment relations and to see whether and how the law can be improved. The opinions of the social partners are expected at the end of September, beginning of October. I will not fail to inform you of the next steps. This is an important and urgent matter for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am also, of course, looking forward to the opinion of the social partners which we expect from early October at the end of September. This indeed looks like a survival of the fittest of parcel delivery companies. It's a competition with cardboard boxes, Waze, merciless scanners and a time pressure, which is placed on them like a weapon. We think this is a form of modern slavery. This has to stop for us. I understand that you cannot rule on the matter before the labour court. I also welcome the fact that additional checks are being carried out on the parcel delivery agencies. That procedure before the labour court is a matter, another matter is that the government must ensure compliance with the level playing field. The people who transport the packages in miserable conditions must be able to count on the social protection we have provided for them. I look forward to the opinion, but you know that I have tabled a bill for the platform economy, together with Mrs Thémont of the PS, to clarify the law on employment relations and to ensure that these people are given the correct statute.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u31	Minister, admit that there is a real problem in the transport and supply sector. In the last three weeks, more scandals have come to light. One is about the appalling working conditions at Uber and Deliveroo with the associated problem of the fake freelancers. On another occasion, there will be an alarming report on the road transport sector in Belgium and Europe, with large companies such as Jost, which are totally failing to comply with labour legislation and which seem to make social dumping a real business. My question was about the accusations of hidden work, false self-employment, poor working conditions in two of the most widespread supply companies in Belgium. The whole sector is really infected. That is why we are urgently asking for additional resources to increase inspections massively. What you're proposing isn't enough. We must put an end to the logic of competition and the deregulation of the sector. There is a need for strict rules and statutes that guarantee genuine social protection and fair pay and a strengthening of the role of public authorities and democratic public enterprises that they allow to work side by side and not set up against each other. Following the example of the ACOD, we call for the delivery of packages to be returned to public services. This is necessary to put an end to this leveling that is antisocial and not sustainable from an ecological point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u32	Minister, you have a number of measures in the pipeline to support the catering sector at the start-up. The discussion of these measures aimed at employment will be discussed tomorrow. My question is specifically about the hotel sector. It may even suffer even more from health measures than from restaurants or cafes. International tourism will only start slowly, which is a tragedy for the hotels situated in the cities of art, for example. Congress centers also have similar problems, because so far congresses have all been canceled. The measures already taken for employment, which, of course, we fully support, are a first step, but do not bring enough comfort to hotel operators. Moreover, many hotel operators are in financial difficulties due to the heavy investment they are running. Mr Minister, that is why I have the following questions. Are you aware of these specific problems in the hotel sector? What additional measures do you intend to take to guide this sector through the start-up?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u33	Madam President, I refer to my question. I just wanted to know what happens after September 30th. Are we going to have transitional measures or are we going to fall back on the former systems of temporary unemployment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u34	Mr Minister, the 'temporary unemployment force majeure' regime has been almost constant since the outbreak of the corona crisis. It has ensured that the job and income security of many workers could remain assured when many companies had to close due to the corona crisis. At the same time, however, the scheme also places a heavy financial burden on our social security systems, for which the same employers and employees have to pay the price sooner or later. Or by enlargement, we learned that last night, the taxpayer. In that context, I have a few questions for you. The existing regime is foreseen until 30 September. To what extent do you intend to maintain the regime of temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure after that date? Is that clear yet? Do you intend to provide for an adapted temporary unemployment scheme for certain sectors after 30 September? If so, in which sectors is that so and under what criteria do you decide? If you wish to maintain a temporary unemployment scheme for reasons of force majeure, do you intend to maintain the increase in the benefit from 65% to 70% of gross wage plus the RVA supplement after 30 September? Will you take the opportunity to abolish the so-called "quarantine leave" from 1 July? The schools will be closed during the summer holidays. Our companies need stability and security. In our view, the right of workers to take up temporary unemployment without employers having a say in it is not desirable, as we have said before.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u35	On 17 May 2021, the nuclear cabinet decided to extend the "temporary unemployment corona" until 30 September 2021. The introduction of a transitional arrangement before that date was considered premature. This decision naturally takes account of the health situation and the different interests at stake, those of workers, employers and the institutions. At present, there are discussions within the government on the last quarter of 2021 and more generally on the post 2021 period. I have also contacted the social partners to know their position on the aftermath of temporary unemployment due to force majeure corona. I can state that an opinion from the NAR is expected by the end of June 2021. The discussions must, of course, be conducted in a positive spirit of relance, but I am convinced that the situation of the companies and workers most affected by the crisis must not be ignored. Specific measures will have to be taken for them to overcome the crisis. Finally, I can assure you that every effort will be made to ensure that the return to the normal situation is not sudden but is gradual and progressive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u36	Minister, that was a very short answer. Our catering industry has suffered a lot during the entire COOVID-19 crisis, but hotel operators cannot start up completely in the current circumstances, precisely because it will take much longer in that sector before all tourists return. I also referred to it in my question. Many hotel operators are in financial difficulties due to ongoing heavy investment. Consequently, the capital base of many of these companies has been severely affected. This is problematic, especially in view of future investment in the sector. They will be postponed. The hotel managers are not responsible for the malaise in which they ended up. It was a well-functioning sector, which had a sound financial basis and was profitable. I look forward to effective and specific actions. Please, don't look the other way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u37	Minister, you say that an opinion from the NAR on this issue is expected by the end of this month. It is not a secret, I have already said it in committee, but I would like to call for this quarter to be phased out, especially for sectors which are very little or no longer affected today. I am very clear for sectors which continue to have a heavy impact and which will continue to have a significant impact in the last quarter and probably in 2022. I'm thinking about the event sector. I also recently had contact with the carnival sector, which can only be active for two to three months and then again until the spring of next year. So there are certainly sectors where this impact remains. However, I am also convinced that there are sectors today that have certainly not been hit hardest and that can actually make use of this broad measure. I therefore call for transitional measures for sectors that continue to have an impact and, of course, for those that are very badly affected. However, Minister, we must gradually return to the systems of temporary unemployment for economic reasons and in which force majeure becomes real force majeure again, in the sense of the old traditional term of a fire or something like that in a business. I hope that the advice of the NAR will give you clarity and that we can return to normal situations in the fourth quarter, with an exception for those hard hit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u38	Minister, you have not answered one of my questions, namely the question of quarantine leave. Will you seize the opportunity to abolish it on 1 July? The schools are closed after all, and it is always good in the context of good work organisation that this is done in consultation between employers and employees. I always assumed that you would be the last to contradict that, but in this story it seems that quarantine leave should remain a unilateral right, even if the schools are closed. I would therefore like to call for serious consideration not to extend the quarantine leave. It is indeed time to think carefully and out loud about an exit scenario for a lot of support measures. Some aid measures have indeed proved their worth and added value, but I had hoped that in the third quarter of this year, i.e. from 1 July onwards, a number of aid measures could be considered at sectoral level. This may not be the case in other sectors, but it would have been a good thing. In the fourth quarter, that exit scenario should also not last longer than is strictly necessary. I'm not arguing for the big clapperadatsch and staying the night away from everything to nothing. However, I think it is a missed opportunity not to use the third quarter in a number of sectors. However, I would urge you to look seriously at the sector by sector in the fourth quarter, where it can be done and not to allow it to last longer than necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u39	Minister, at the end of March, you announced to arts and culture workers the introduction of complementary support measures until 30 June 2021. Artists would receive this support retroactive to January 1, 2021. Thus, until June, the minimum amount of the daily allowance is increased to EUR 59.25 for dependent workers. For single or cohabiting workers, the minimum amount is EUR 52.20. You gave an example in the press: "This aid will allow co-habitants to benefit from 1 357 euros, compared with 991 euros usually". Minister, can you tell us if the implementation of this aid has been integrated by ONEM? Is the situation regularized? Have the allowances been adjusted and paid? Will these measures be extended beyond 30 June?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u40	The Government has indeed decided to extend the scheme by KB in the Law of 15 July until the end of September 2021. The effects of the corona crisis are still palpable in the cultural sector, which fortunately can start again. It is still very important to provide information on the renewal of the ruler correctly to the potential beneficiaries. After all, it is really about making it to the end of the month or not. According to the figures, the latest you shared with us at the end of January, only 328 people would have applied. I then asked you how you explained the discrepancy with the estimated number of over 700 people by the Court of Auditors for 2020. Do you have any more recent figures, including the average lead time of these applications? Have there been any extreme cases in this area? The information on the website of the RVA is still very limited for me. Only in an annex to infopage T53 there is more concrete information about, among other things, deadlines, while the information on the website of the auxiliary cash is not easily accessible. I am very concerned about that. We've talked about this a lot. How will it ensure that sufficient, quality and understandable information is accessible? Looks like it's gonna be an old one. The last time the information about the extension was also modified very late on the website. Can this be communicated quickly and in sufficient time on the website of the RVA and the auxiliary cash? The parties concerned contact me with the question of whether or not the scheme is being extended. With a simple Google assignment, they should be released on the website of the RVA or the auxiliary cash to get that information quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u41	Minister, last year temporary measures were taken to support the cultural sector through the law of 15 July 2020 to improve the situation of workers in the cultural sector. Meanwhile, the discussion on a permanent improvement is in full swing. For example, the freezing of the degressivity of unemployment benefits, the facilitation of access to the artists' statute or the cumulation of unemployment benefits and copyrights are envisaged. Those measures have just been extended until 30 September, which is a good thing. Minister, will you ensure some flexibility in access to the artist's statute pending the announced reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure covered by the various questions is contained in a royal decree of 2 May 2021, which was published on 7 May 2021 in the Belgian Moniteur. This measure, which has been implemented by the ONEM and the payment institutions, currently grants the increased amounts of unemployment benefit provided for the workers concerned. On May 17, the Select Ministerial Committee decided to extend this measure originally planned for the period from January 1, 2021 to June 30, 2021 until September 30, 2021. As of 2 May 2021, 491 workers from the cultural sector received unemployment benefits under the Law of 15 July 2020. Ten applications were rejected because the conditions of access were not met. I extended the reference period for access, which is also included in the Royal Decree of 2 May 2021. I therefore expect more people to be able to use them in the coming days, weeks and months. As far as information on the measure is concerned, we are in consultation with the federations and employees' representatives so that they can disseminate the information to the persons concerned. We have asked the national authorising officer to provide more information to the paying agencies, who are now more familiar with the measure and the procedure. I will ask the RVA to update the information on its website more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u43	Minister, thank you. If I understand what you have said, for those who have not yet seen an increase in the amount of their allowance, there would be a specific difficulty affecting them, all being normally in order elsewhere. I can therefore refer this information to the interested persons. I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u44	Mr Minister, I note that 491 people have applied. You expect to be added to this by extending the reference period. The most important thing in your answer was that you will ask the RVA to update the information more quickly. That information must also be very accessible. Now one really needs to look for it and open several tabs. It could be better for a modern government agency. If you could pass that along, that would be very nice. In any case, I am very pleased that you want to do even more work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u45	Minister, what is good is good. I can tell you're really working on it. A measure may go wrong in terms of communication. This is precisely where we want to see some improvement. I repeat our wish to keep Parliament very well informed of the preparations for the reforms. We're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u46	Minister, three weeks ago, you launched the "Working in the Arts" citizen participation platform to integrate the world of arts and culture workers into the reform of their status. I can only welcome this democratic choice to set up this participatory method. After these first three weeks, Minister, what are your first observations? Do the people concerned share with you, as you asked, the realities they are facing? Is online participation already used enough, in your opinion? How does the technical group manage to capture content deposited on the site? Have you, in the end, opted for a precise methodology and content tags? Workers already registered in the federations will be heard. Do you intend to publicize this platform by setting up an information campaign that would encourage free electrons, workers who are less or not engaged in associative networks or who are absent from social networks, to enter the debate and share their suggestions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u47	Minister, I share the President's concern. We are very positive about the process of participation and we believe that this is an example of how we can shape democracy in the future. Such a process of participation is, of course, dependent on the way in which people are led to it. I have the same questions as my colleague. Is sufficient attention being paid to the diversity of the people going to the Participation Platform Working in the Arts? Is there a communication plan? Has specific actions been taken to ensure that sufficient numbers of men and women are involved, spread across different age groups? For us it is also important that the artists have different ethnic-cultural backgrounds, as well as come from different residences and art disciplines. What level of response is there at the moment? Do you have any idea to what extent the diversity, which is so beautifully present in the sector, is also reflected and monitored in this participation platform?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u48	Thank you, colleagues, for your questions. The participation platform Working in the Arts was actually launched three weeks ago, at the same time as the technical working group with the sector. We had the opportunity to discuss this in committee a few weeks ago. The participation platform is, as you know, freely accessible to all. Visitors can, read contributions and participate in debates without registering. To make contributions or comments, or to receive newsletters, registration is mandatory. After almost three weeks, 282 people registered on the platform. Together, they made 64 proposals and 90 comments. Two debates have already taken place with a total of about 50 participants. The FPS Social Security is currently conducting an information and recruitment campaign in addition to a mailing campaign via the social security portal to cultural centres and public social security institutions, via the FPS website, via the Kanselarij and the belgium.be website, via the e-news and social news about the project. The message was also disseminated through specific websites for artists such as Amplo/ VI.BE and the Comptoir des Arts. The Artist@Work site of the Artists Committee also contains a permanent reference to the project. Since Wednesday, May 19, a campaign on social networks has also been launched, with video testimonials from artists on the challenges they face on a daily basis. Video messages accompanied by a call to action will be sponsored via Facebook and Instagram for artists who are active on social networks. Information sessions were also held with the sector to explain the project. By organizing seven debates led by moderators of the sector, we give additional visibility to the project and call for the mobilization of the sector and its actors. During the fall phase, the existing community will be further strengthened and a second information and recruitment campaign will be launched around the new themes. Contributions on the participation platform will be integrated into the discussions of the technical working group. In addition, the sectoral representatives of the working group are invited, as part of their feedback to the sector, to actively integrate input into the preparation of the sectoral proposal. As already stated in the Social Affairs Committee of 28 April, this is an innovative approach whereby the competent administration and the Cabinets, in consultation with the sector, strive for a balanced and sustainable approach, without formalising all the structures in advance and without any form of discrimination. As for the reform framework, I would like to refer to the objectives and principles approved by the government. These were explained in the same committee, as you know. This is a modernisation of social protection, and therefore an improvement in the status of existing artist, by which social security is adapted to the practice and needs of the sector. Artistic practice is strengthened and/or solidarity with and in the sector will be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm trying to finish taking note. This reform of the status of workers from the cultural sector is very important to us. We clearly feel the motivation, the mobilization around communication, so that as many people as possible are informed. Nevertheless, I would nevertheless like to draw attention to those who, over and over again, will pass between the grids of these digital nets, and perhaps give you methodological advice, which we use in our political group when we want to touch those who are never in these networks. It is a very basic gesture, which we have forgotten today: the telephone call! We can draw lots, or you can, with the information you have and while respecting the data protection rules, identify the people who benefit from the status, who would never have participated or worked on these issues, and simply ask them what is happening, how they live, how they work their art and creativity. We also know that in this area of work, some of the workers are completely out of digital coverage. I think it's really important to be able to target them too. Also a return: when we do these kinds of phone probes, people feel concerned while initially they felt that they were not being asked for their opinion. I think it can really be very valuable, in terms of reconciliation with a democratic process around political commitment. I know you're particularly attentive to it. I will finish with one last element. When I hear the framework of the reform that you are formulating, I see that the reform is still very open. I'm finally very happy about that. We know that the cultural sector is very creative. I am always pleased to hear that the framework remains very open and concerns the modernisation of social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u50	Minister, it is clear that a whole communication battery has started. That's very important. Thanks for having the sensitivity to try to reach as many people as possible. Thank you also for your wealth of proposals that ensure that no one will be forgotten. The only thing I can say is that for the second campaign, in the autumn, it is good to take stock of which people have found their way and for whom we may need to step up. Perhaps we can reach out to people who are not active in social media and who have not been reached. But I have to say that a lot of work is already being done to reach as many people as possible. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u51	Madam President, Minister, for some time now our party has been pointing out to you that the state's duty to work at home is not legally properly regulated. In the meantime, we also submitted a bill for this. The figures published by the service provider Partena once again show that some employers take steps to pay fair compensation for the costs borne by the workers at home. An analysis of the data of 260,000 employees by the service provider Partena showed that between the beginning of 2020 and 30 April 2021 only 4,2% of Belgian employees had already received telework remuneration. It was an average of 74 euros net. On a monthly basis, April had the worst figure: only 3.7 % of employees received compensation. That is sadly little and shows that the existing arrangements are apparently not being implemented. However, a number of collective agreements clearly stipulate that employees can receive up to EUR 129.48 to cover all kinds of expenditure: use of own office equipment, water, gas and electricity, etc. What will you do to ensure that the provisions of collective agreements on remuneration are complied with? Will you encourage the social partners to implement their collective agreements?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u52	Madam President, Ms Samyn, in a judgment of 5 October 2020, the Court of Cassation annulled a judgment of the Antwerp Labour Court which gave a worker the right to compensation for work at home. In legal terms, the Court of Cassation makes a distinction between telework and homework. Those are two different concepts. Your claims are therefore not entirely correct. This is why the social partners have concluded a specific collective agreement on this subject. Cao No. The aim of 149 of the National Labour Council is to establish a framework and principles for telework which is mandatory by the public authorities in the context of the health crisis. This concerns Article 5 of collective agreement No. 149. Employers and employees shall also agree on the reimbursement of the costs of an employee for the use of his own equipment and any additional connection costs. These agreements shall take into account all costs or compensations paid by the employer to the employee. However, the collective agreement does not require employers to pay a certain amount of compensation or the amount of such compensation, but rather that employers and employees must make arrangements. The agreement may also be that no compensation is due. Furthermore, during the same period, both the tax authorities and the RSZ have developed clarifications on which allowances can be paid to employees with tax and parafiscal exemption. The maximum amount of these amounts has been temporarily increased by the Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The road to normal life, post-corona, is a lot longer than everyone expected. Although a number of relaxations are being implemented in the coming weeks with regard to the return to the workplace, teleworking is likely to continue to be recommended for some time to come. In addition to the advantages of teleworking, the disadvantages are now known. Partena's figures show once again that there is no uniform system for the reimbursement of home workers. I repeat the figure: only 4.2 % of those questioned indicated that they had already received a telework fee between the beginning of 2020 and 30 April 2021. My party will continue to hammer on this. It should have been better legally. However, you prefer to shift responsibility to the employer. You rely on the negotiating capacities of the employees who have to beg their boss for compensation or intervention. As far as we are concerned, that cannot and should not be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u54	Minister, largely introduced in recent months, telework is expected to develop over the next few years. This form of work has various advantages for workers, such as greater autonomy or a reduction in transport times. For some, it also leads to higher productivity: a study conducted by Acerta points out that half of the respondents indicate that teleworking increases productivity relative to the office. However, telework can be done at the expense of workers' health. According to the same study, almost half of Belgian workers (49%) say that they now work more hours per week at home than before in the office. With requests via emails, notifications or messaging, there is no longer a boundary between professional and private life, which is made porous and generates a sense of permanent urgency. Ultimately, the hyperconnection of teleworkers exposes them to a high risk of psychosocial problems, such as stress or burn-out. Minister, our legal arsenal remains largely based on a traditional vision of work, built on the vision of a single full-time employer, and a Monday to Friday service from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. However, with the emergence of new technologies, new risks are gradually emerging that affect the well-being of our workers. Minister, what mechanisms are currently in place to protect teleworkers from a significant increase in unpaid overtime and overwork on their privacy? In your policy statement, you mentioned that you wanted to have a discussion with the social partners on the possibility of introducing a right to disconnect. Were you considering this right? Have you already started discussions with the social partners on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u55	Mr Minister, yesterday the results of a new survey by Acerta were announced. This shows that 93% of employers think that they are very concerned about the mental well-being of their employees, but only 56% of workers experience it that way. One in five employees indicate that they are abusing a burnout. The reason is quite simple. Digital aperos are nice and certainly well meant, but they do not need that, so employees say. They have the impression that there is no distinction between work and family and the time they used to spend on commuting is now filled with extra work, which undermines resilience. Workers need clear agreements from their employer, especially on work-life balance, working time and rest time. The collective agreement No. 149 already provides a temporary framework for compulsory teleworking during the corona crisis. It says that there must be talk of a right to deconnection. Is that being evaluated? How is the measure monitored? With compulsory teleworking coming to an end, I would like to know more about the structural framework. What's the timing of this? Are the social partners working on this? What's the status of the right to deconnect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u56	On 26 November 2020, Mrs Thémont, Mrs Vanrobaeys, I asked the social partners in the National Labour Council to evaluate the existing framework on telework and deconnection and to examine whether additional rules or initiatives are needed, and I also reminded them of the same question that had already been asked by former Minister of Work Muylle on 10 July 2020. In a letter of 10 December 2020, the Group of Ten replied that an evaluation exercise was under way and that the social partners intended to adapt, if necessary or appropriate, the existing legal instruments. In their Opinion No 2195 on compulsory telework of 26 January 2021, which they made at the same time as collective agreement No 149, the social partners reaffirmed that the substantive assessment of the existing rules on structural and occasional telework and the right to disconnect should take place in a later phase. I therefore look forward to their proposal concerning the possible adaptation of the legal framework for telework and disconnection as soon as possible, but, like you, I am attentive to developments in the situation, to the elements highlighted by the crisis and by the various studies carried out and published in recent times. It seems to me that, with the structuring of telework in a range of sectors and enterprises, it is essential to supervise it and guarantee a genuine right to disconnect. We will have the opportunity to return and I hope to receive the opinion of the social partners as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that the increase in (...) has given rise to a culture (...) a negative impact on the balance between work and private life of workers. To be able to assert his right to disconnect must intervene quickly. I hear - and this is positive - that you are waiting for the opinion of the social partners and that you are paying attention to the measures so that they are concrete and that there is a real right to disconnect from work and family life.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u58	Minister, I understand your reference to the social partners and that consultation is important; we have just had the debate on the social agreement. At the same time, I would like to propose telework, especially as we move towards structural telework, not just as a purely negative story, even though, according to alarming surveys, it is mentally burdensome and slightly breaks the resilience of the workers. After all, many workers claim to remain in favour of telework as long as it does not happen full-time, because it offers benefits for the combination of work and family life. I am told here and there that a lot of companies are preparing and even negotiating where offices are closed completely, employees are obliged to telework as much as possible and structural telework results in more flexibility, more weekend work and extra hours for employees. I find these messages hallucinating, even though there will certainly be good examples. So I see a lot of movement in different companies. That is why I think it is very important that the social partners carry out the evaluation quickly and quickly with an interprofessional framework within which negotiations are taking place in the sectors and companies. It is true that good remuneration must be provided and the right to deconnection must be guaranteed and perhaps even the right to "connection" because it benefits mental resilience if you are allowed to go to the office from time to time. To this end, I have drawn up a motion for a resolution which I will present in the coming month. I hope that this will lead to the development of a framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u59	Mr Minister, on 1 May, Statbel mapped out the evolution of part-time work between 1983 and 2020. There is, of course, a finding that more women are active in the labour market. A second notable increase can be found in the number of people working part-time. Men are becoming more and more part-time, but part-time work is still mainly for women today. In your policy paper, you refer several times to the particular attention to be paid to women's careers. How do you intend to ensure that the trend towards a more equal distribution of part-time work between men and women continues? There is also the problem of involuntary part-time workers. Employers who employ part-time workers who receive an income guarantee on top of their part-time pay must offer them additional hours. If they do not do so, they risk having to pay an additional contribution since April 2020. Since April 2020, can you give me the number of involuntary part-time employees that get an IGU? What's the gender distribution over there? Can you also give me figures on the response contribution since April 2020? How do you interpret and evaluate these figures? It actually seems to me to be a very difficult regulation to control. I got two signals from on-site. Is an employer also liable for the response contribution if he has involuntary part-time workers but has the additional hours carried out by temporary workers? Is it permissible for an employer to allow the same involuntary part-time worker to work with him on a fixed contract at other times as a temporary worker? As far as the last two specific questions are concerned, there seem to be problems on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u60	In fact, Statbel's figures show that part-time work is still predominantly performed by women. While the proportion of men working part-time is almost steadily rising to a historically high level of 11.8 % in 2019 and 2020, part-time work among women reaches a peak of 46 % in 2012 and then falls to 42.5 % in 2020. The reasons for working part-time are very different and very different between women and men. Care for children or other persons is the main reason for women to work part-time, 24%, followed by other personal or family reasons, 20.2 %. Third, the fact that the desired job was only available part-time was 17.2 %. However, for men, this reason was first, 21%, followed by other reasons, 14.1 % and other personal or family reasons, 11.3 %. Of course, these different reasons should also be taken into account. The figures clearly show that part-time work is also a sectoral issue. The gender pay gap also plays a role. In general, employees often choose to let the partner with the lowest income work less hours. The decline in family income is then the smallest. Part-time work therefore has many facets and the underlying links must be understood to have an impact on women's careers. Finally, as far as the figures are concerned, I refer you to Statbel's figures. The RVA also publishes on its website the statistics on employees working part-time while retaining rights and income guarantee benefits. These figures are broken down by gender, region and other variables, such as age group or NACE BEL codes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have given some interesting figures for the reasons why people work part-time and the difference between men and women. The fact that within a couple one chooses to let the partner with the lowest income work less hours is a fact that we all know. We also know the cause of this, in particular the fact that women have children and men do not, and that birth leave has been extended, which is very good, but that it is still not granted automatically. We know that the fact that only women are biologically able to bring children into the world has consequences for them for a very long time after that. We are convinced that politics should facilitate and correct as much as possible there. Women don't have to pay that price for that. We all like that there are children who will be able to pay our pensions later, but this is a burden we have to bear together and we have to correct it in a political way. For the more specific questions, please refer to the RVA tables. I will look at it, but I am sorry that I have not received an answer to two very specific questions. I shall be taking the lesson here that I should not ask too many things all of a sudden and split up my questions more so that I can certainly get an answer to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u62	Madam President, Minister, I do not know whether you remember the date of 9 June 2020 in your capacity as Minister of Work. On that date, 1,500 employees at the airport lost their jobs. That's 1,500 families who got into trouble. Minister, I've been there myself. With me, a dagger goes through my heart every time there are closures or fired. After all, I know very well what that means for those many families. Besides, I'm still in contact with a lot of people. I used to work there myself, back at Sabena, then Flightcare, and then Swissport. So I know a lot of people who still don't have a job and live in misery. The situation there is now very bad. Alyzia and Aero Services have taken over. The vast majority of workers work in very poor working conditions with interim contracts, part-time contracts and split shifts. That's the result of Swissport's bankruptcy. My questions to you, Minister, are therefore very clear. First of all, why wasn't anything done to stop the bankruptcy? After all, Brussels Airlines received money and Aviapartner received money. Swissport has just gone deeper, causing 1,500 employees to lose their jobs. Secondly, we hear that at the end of April 2021, the European Commission announced a EUR 3.7 million support programme for Swissport workers. The people concerned have a lot of questions about this. How and for whom will that money be used? Will the money be used for the workers who have been thrown into the street like dirt, who have no social plan and who have only been given the minimum of the Company Closure Fund? Is the money going to these people or will you give it to the employers' organizations again? I don't know. The people concerned have asked me to ask that question here. What will happen to the money? Thirdly, how many former Swissport employees are still unemployed? How many employees have found work elsewhere? What contracts have they found work with? How many of them are working at Alyzia and Aero Services again? Have these companies taken over their seniority? Finally, Minister, what is your opinion on the fact that social dumping is now being organised at the airport? That is what is happening. The employees almost all work with interim contracts. I hope you're not insensitive to this social dumping.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u63	Thank you, Mrs Vindevoghel. Firstly, I would like to point out that the regional and federal governments have spared no effort to mitigate the effects of the corona crisis. I will not list all the measures taken. Unfortunately, this could not prevent the bankruptcy of Swissport last June. My thoughts go out to the affected workers and their families, as do you. The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is intended to help people who have lost their jobs to find new jobs or start their own business. The fund can finance up to 60% of the cost of projects. The request for assistance is in itself an exclusive competence of the Regions. It is a good thing that the three Belgian regions have submitted a joint application for the first time. As a federal minister for employment, I naturally supported this approach. At the end of April, the European Commission proposed to mobilise a budget of EUR 3.7 million for support programmes for almost 1,500 former Swissport employees Belgium. I propose that the other questions be put to the relevant regional ministers. As far as the quality of employment is concerned, you know that this is one of our priorities for us as socialists and that we will continue to work on it, with respect, of course, for the prerogatives of the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u64	Of course, people do not have a message from the softening of the corona measures, because the great hopes of those people still have no work, Minister. During that period, around June, we tabled a motion for a resolution to provide a solution for the airport, which was very badly hit by corona. With our resolution, we proposed the creation of a statute as for the dock workers, so that they could keep the jobs and have a solution for all those people. What happened now, Minister? Social dumping is now being organized. The people who work there now work in very poor working conditions. As a result, we now hear that, for example, Aviapartner is also asked by the employer to introduce more flexibility. We are going to have a spiral down, organized social dumping. I think that is your responsibility, Minister. You can refer to the Regions, but the people who have lost their jobs and have to work in very bad conditions do not have a message.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u65	Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u66	Mr President, psychosocial well-being is even more of a focus in these times than before. This is an important aspect of well-being at work. I do not have to repeat the figures, you undoubtedly know them as well as I do, but the fact that the number of burn-outs in long-term absent workers increased by 162% in June 2020 since the end of 2017 has been alarming. It is therefore a good thing that you are working on a Federal Plan Mental Resilience at Work and that there will be a first package of measures this year in the short term. The role of prevention and information should certainly not be underestimated and the website stressburnout.belgie.has its role to play in this, but it is still lean in terms of concrete measures in the field, as announced at the end of March.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u67	Colleagues, stress at work is nothing new. The phenomenon has increased as a result of the crisis. The figures you list are indeed alarming. I remain convinced that the existing measures, including all the statutory obligations of employers in terms of well-being at work, are already moving in the right direction. The challenge now is that they must become known to everyone and be applied everywhere. That is why I am counting heavily on the major awareness campaign that is now being prepared. I hope that sectoral projects will help the sectors experiencing difficulties as a result of the crisis to address these problems. The challenges are great because the problem is multifactorial and requires a global and integrated approach. Close cooperation is therefore planned with my colleagues, the Minister for Social Affairs, the self-employed and civil servants, and at a later stage also with the Länder and other stakeholders, such as the social partners and other relevant organisations and groups. At the moment, the FPS Employment is preparing a awareness campaign together with the FPS Social Security Office. There is now a public tender and the future communication agency will be responsible for developing the creative concept and communication strategy and for implementing it through various media channels. The aim of the section relating to the FPS Employment is to inform employers and employees about existing legislation on well-being at work, on prevention actors and on existing instruments. The beswic.be website is made available free of charge in order to provide the best possible support for the companies. The awareness campaign will also take into account the effects of the crisis and the new way of working, such as the increased use of telework. The definition of the sectors eligible for a project grant is also being developed. In the first instance, the sectors in which mental health has deteriorated seriously are identified. This is done on the basis of objective and scientific data. In addition, a project call for projects is prepared and a follow-up committee is set up. We want to make everyone who works, regardless of their status, aware and able to find solutions to their problems. We also want to use the subsidies to enable sectors in difficulty to meet these challenges and protect their workers. I hope to be able to stick to the timetable and act as soon as possible once the budgetary formalities have been completed. The ACV's proposals are very interesting, especially as they concern feedback from the field on existing measures. All feedback from the field and from prevention experts will of course receive my full attention. Each will be analysed and included in the medium-term plan where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u68	Minister, we had a full day of hearings on the reintegration of long-term sick people not so long ago. At that time, I also started my discourse by saying that prevention comes first. Prevention is the key in that. I can join you in saying that the instruments are actually there. That's what the ACV says. This is clearly reflected in their message, and it is also a lack of information, both on the part of the employer and the employee. It is very good that this awareness campaign is used to that end. I repeat that there are still steps to be taken in the field of risk analysis, in the area of access to information and information. That's very important, isn't it? We look forward to the further development of this. It is a hugely important problem and an important challenge that we face. It's multifactorial, making it very difficult to put the finger on the wound. One size fits all is an approach we don't need. The huge increase in the number of burn-outs by 160 % over the last three years should alarm us all tremendously. We are truly convinced that the best remedy is prevention. We look forward to the continuation of this and will continue to follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u69	Minister, I have indeed questioned you and Minister Vandenbroucke on this matter a number of times. I believe that together we have to find that the number of people who suffer from stress, burn-out, or depression is a loss to society. It is not only a problem for the employee himself, because he wants to work but can no longer work, but it is also a loss for the employer, and in that way also a loss for all of us, for society. It is particularly important to focus on prevention in the first instance. This must indeed be done in cooperation with the employers. I am pleased that the ACV has made a number of proposals in this area. If people fail, the government must work on the reintegration of the long-term unemployed. Minister Vandenbroucke is also working on this through his plan. I see now that the federal government is preparing the Federal Action Plan Mental Resilience. There are a number of things that have already been worked out. You indicate that in the first phase you will focus on communication. You say that the administration is working on that. That's a good thing. However, you have not been specific about whether the campaign will be launched before the summer or not. If you are talking about a short term and that you are working on it, I expect that the campaign can hopefully start in a month or two months. Can you confirm that? I also read in the notes that the measures must be completed by the end of this year. I therefore assume that we will be able to hold a discussion in committee by then, possibly together with your colleague, Minister Vandenbroucke, because you are jointly responsible for this matter. I hope that we will then be able to deal with the avoidance of long-term illness, stress, burn-out, etc., but also with the re-integration of people with stress or burn-out. I think we can still have this debate. I hope you'll be able to set up the campaign soon. What I certainly welcome is the cooperation with the sub-governments and with your fellow ministers, whom you put first.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u70	Minister, I will not repeat what my fellow Members have said. Sensitisation is of course important. You have said that sensitisation is not the only aspect. The Federal Plan Mental Resilience needs to be established. There are also workers' organisations making proposals. I have seen that you are in favour of this. You say that you will take the proposals with you in the medium term. I have read in the proposals that there are also a number of quick wins, not least. For example, there is the consideration of how we can introduce a reportage model in order to make transparency clearer. I am thinking, for example, of the possibility of a same-sex confidant. So there are some quick wins that can be implemented quickly and that can also help in drawing up the plan and taking action in the short term. I would therefore ask you to look not only at short-term measures, but also at possible quick wins. We will certainly come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u71	Minister, temporary unemployment has recently been fully introduced into the services sector in half a day. This happened despite our concern about the loss of income and the flexibilisation of the work of domestic workers, the risk of creating a dangerous precedent for labour law, and the lack of the green light of the National Labour Council, the heart of the social dialogue, which is also at the heart of the coalition agreement. What feedback have you received from the application of the new legislation? What effect does your measure have on household help income? Do you have any preliminary figures on this? More importantly, can you still assure us that this measure will expire on 30 June? If so, you will ensure that, from 1 July onwards, employers in the sector respect the principle that the wages of the household help are paid when the customer withdraws. If so, what exactly will you do?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u72	Madam President, Mr Colebunders, I apologize. Since the question is given as Ms. Moscufo's, my answer is in French. I hope you're not mad at me. ONEM has been applying this measure since May 10, 2021, following the publication of the Royal Decree of May 2, 2021. Between May 10 and 26, 2021, the ONEM received a total of 715 half-day notifications of temporary unemployment. This measure is not part of the package of support measures that Kern decided on 17 May 2021 to extend until 30 September 2021. This will end on June 30, as I announced in committee when I voted on the bill for this measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u73	Minister, you cannot blame me for having doubts when you talk about data, including in this dossier. After all, about the corona overtime, you also said that the arrangement would end. But that's another point. We hope that, as soon as this measure is completed, you will effectively comply with the legislation on the payment of wages. When a customer withdraws, what you should have done all along is pay the wages once the working day has started. We hope that you will pay due attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic508x.u74	Colleagues, I leave it to you to identify the questions you may wish to turn into written questions. Minister, thank you for your presence and point out that you are already coming back on the afternoon of June 22 for further oral questions. Debates of the European Parliament 55018517C by Mrs Lanjri will be converted into a written question.
