ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u1	Minister, a study on job growth in the circular sector in Flanders was published on 4 May. The study confirms that the development of the circular economy can generate many jobs. Between 2008 and 2020, employment in the circular economy grew three times faster than the Flemish average. The Green Deal and the federal government's ambitions will push up that growth rate even more. It is important that the development of the circular economy and industry creates jobs for both high and low skilled, which lowers the average level of education in the circular economy than in the general economy. Betting on the circular economy will thus greatly contribute to achieving the ambitions of increasing the employment rate. However, there is a worrying trend in the study which concerns the repair sector, where a decrease in employment was observed between 2008 and 2020. However, repairing products is an important part of the circular economy. In your policy statement, you say that you will work together with the Minister of Climate Change on an action plan for the circular economy. I therefore have the following questions for you, Minister. The figures in the study are about Flanders. Are there comparable employment growth figures in the other regions? Do you believe that the maximum commitment to achieving a circular economy in particular will benefit Belgian employment? Do you have any explanation for the contraction of employment in the repair sector? What are the challenges facing the sector and what measures will you address these challenges in the circular economy action plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u2	Mr Vanbesien, the data from the RSZ for the same selection of sectors show that in Wallonia, as in Flanders, 2.3 % of employees were employed in the circular economy in the first three quarters of 2020. The circular economy grew by almost 15% in Wallonia between 2008 and 2020, but in Brussels we see a contraction of more than 10% in the same period and a slight increase in 2020. It is true that for Belgium as a whole the repair sector is the only sector that is shrinking during that period, but this is only due to the evolution in Flanders and Brussels. In Wallonia, the sector grew relatively strongly. The further development of the circular economy is not only necessary from the point of view of the environment, but certainly also offers opportunities for work. The efficient use of resources, the circular economy and its innovations offer opportunities to create sustainable and local jobs, strengthen the resilience of our economy, stimulate repair services and the social economy, and create new markets and competitive advantages. The Federal Plan of Action for a Circular Economy therefore includes the following measures to stimulate the development of the repair sector: improve the design of certain products to facilitate their repair and a mandatory index on products at the time of purchase in the shop and online to inform consumers about the possible repairability of the product; transpose the Legal Guarantee Directive so as to facilitate consumers' right to repair; and launch a communication campaign to raise consumer awareness of sustainable consumption and the circular economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I am convinced that everyone is becoming increasingly aware of the fact that raw materials are finite, that the economy and industry will adapt to them and that there will be a transformation whereby companies will thoroughly redesign, but also the raw materials used and the life cycle of their products. More than that, that transition is already in full swing. It offers opportunities for our country. We have many researchers and universities who can accompany this transition. In turn, lower skilled people can take care of the new production. So let us make a full effort on this forward-looking economy. I look forward to your plan for that. Let us also do our utmost to ensure that Brussels is not left behind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u4	Mr President, Minister, thank you for being here. Recently, I was reminded of a new way of chasing citizens at excessive costs. In concrete terms, this concerns a number of malicious practices in which companies specialising in the detection of infringements of the copyright law appeal to individuals. Copyright is, of course, a very important piece of legislation, which we absolutely support. However, those companies use specific software to detect whether a person has used an image, often accidentally, without explicitly asking permission. That is something that happens to us, political parties, on a regular basis. So it is often done with the best intentions, but it happens once in a while. Their M.O. is pretty aggressive. They immediately charge very heavy damages for an infringement, especially to unsuspecting citizens, who have often used an image on their hobby website or elsewhere for their own social media, always or often in good faith. There's no room for negotiation either. Often the person gets a warning to pay very quickly and sometimes with threatening language. There's even a threat of a lawsuit. There is also often talk of a crime, all of which has an impact on someone who gets such a message and actually didn't realize he was doing something wrong. Of course copyright must be protected, but this must not lead to the creation of a business model in which companies become rich in the hood of people who do not intend to abuse an image at all. A second chance might be appropriate. That is why I have the following questions. Did the FPS Economy get any complaints about such practices? How does the FPS handle such complaints? Can we take action against this? Is legislative work required? Are awareness actions an option?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u5	Mrs Van Bossuyt is not present, her question No. 55017656C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u6	People who have a blog and post photos on it should, as part of a communication to the public, request permission from the right holders. However, there are companies that look for photos to then demand excessive fees supposedly for the lost income. Owners of a blog who have taken over a photo of the internet with the best intentions or where someone places such a photo on the blog will then receive a peppered invoice on the bus. It is a friendly settlement of more than 900 euros and the threat that if they do not pay, a trial will be started for this crime. Copyright must of course be respected, but this practice puts people who do not seek financial gain at the mercy of multinationals in good faith. It is not enough for these companies to simply delete these photos.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u7	Mr President, in 2020, 46 reports of copyright infringements were submitted to the FPS Economy hotline. In 2021, 21 notifications were received until the beginning of May. This is always about notifications from website owners who were registered by a company with the notice that a photo is copyrighted and placed on their website without permission. The FPS Economy analyses the complaints he receives about this through the hotline. The analysis of the complaints shows that the rightholder is always in a position to act in accordance with Book XI of the Economic Law Code. Even if a website owner acted in good faith, he still commits an infringement of copyright. The deletion of the photo does not remove the initial breach. The assessment of the amount of the compensation claimed is due to the courts and courts, not to the FPS Economy. In accordance with Article 13 of the European Directive on the enforcement of intellectual property rights, which is transposed into Article XI/335 of the Code of Economic Law, any infringement must be compensated by any infringer who knew or should reasonably have known that he committed an infringement. An infringement of copyright is a tortuous act and follows the principles of quasi-deliberative liability. The compensation must be proportionate to the actual damage suffered by the author. In appropriate cases, courts may determine damages as a lump sum in accordance with Article XI/335, § 2. This can be done on the basis of elements such as the amount of royalties or fees due should the infringer have requested permission to use the photograph. The compensation for copyright infringements is not covered by Directive 2019/790 on copyright and related rights in the Digital Single Market and will therefore not be dealt with in its transposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u8	Minister, it is good to hear that a number of reports have been made, which is also on the radar of the FPS Economy. You say that compensation should be proportionate to the damage actually suffered. In the case of copyright, I fully agree with that. In this respect, however, it would often be sufficient to ask someone to delete that image, which means that compensation is not possible or even necessary. After all, it is often a mistake by someone who uses an image for a hobby website in good faith and who subsequently finds that it is copyrighted. It would be good to draw people's attention to this, so that compensation is not necessary at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u9	If copyright is to be paid, this must of course be done. We all agree on that. The way in which these companies operate, however, mainly disturbs us. They behave quite aggressively towards people who have the best intentions and often out of ignorance put such a photo. Then there should be no immediate threat of serious damages. An ordinary report that this should not happen again would be much better. There must be sufficient awareness, because not everyone is aware of all these rules. It then seems very unfair to be threatened immediately with rather high sanctions. Sensitivity is certainly in place here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u10	Mr Minister, my question was put some time ago. On 7 May, a day before the catering industry could open again, there was a great deal of discontent among the catering operators, who had been looking forward to that moment for a very long time, when it appeared that the communication on the website of the FPS Economy was in conflict with what other ministers had stated. Since this question is dated, I want to update it by taking a look at the future. There are still a lot of relaxations ahead of us in the coming period. So I was wondering what you learned from your past farce, Minister? What are you going to do to ensure that next time this communication is streamlined and one minister is not going to contradict another? How will you ensure that the catering industry is informed in good time of the protocols in force, without having to make investments which later prove to be useless?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u11	Mrs Rohonyi and Mrs Houtmeyers are not present for their question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u12	Mr van Lommel, of course I understand the concerns of the sector when the availability of the necessary information and protocols is sometimes delayed. The situation shall be assessed according to the evolution of the situation and knowledge. Since 9 June, the interior rooms in the catering industry have been open to customers again. The protocols for the full reopening of the catering industry are available. They were published on the website of the FPS Economy and were included in a guide to the reopening of the catering industry, which is available to everyone. This Guide to the Opening of Trade of the FPS Economy clarifies that a CO2 measuring instrument is mandatory in each space. There is an action plan for ventilation in hospitality and fitness centres, which the operator must apply if the limit value of 900 ppm CO2 is exceeded in the establishment or part of the establishment. In the context of the pandemic, the Coronac Commission's Task Force Ventilation has also drawn up recommendations for ventilation, indoor air quality and its control. Ventilation issues are, of course, discussed with all the sectors concerned. In any case, I think that today we can all rejoice that the Horeca sector can resume its activities both inside and outside. Of course, the decisions that will be taken by the Conciliation Committee this Friday will, I hope, move towards further easing. As mentioned above, it will be necessary to ensure that past errors in the communications of the various protocols and their availability do not recur.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u13	Mr Minister, the fact that there is at present a clear guide available to everyone can, of course, only be a good thing. You say that we can be satisfied that after many months the catering industry is open again. That's effective. I'd say a donkey doesn't hit the same stone twice. In fact, you admitted that there was a communication problem at the time. If we go back in history, then of course there has been an accumulation of communication errors. So I can only hope that the same mistakes will not be made again in the follow-up to the reopening. I understand the anger of the catering entrepreneurs who have been closed down for a very long time and have lost a great deal of money. They did their best to ensure a proper reopening and had also made investments for that purpose. If they then experience such things one day before the reopening, it is particularly painful. Let's hope history doesn't repeat itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u14	Minister, recently, the Price Observatory has carried out a very interesting and high-quality study on the functioning of the market in the notary sector. This study shows, among other things, that the profitability of the profession of notaries (16% on average) is abnormally high compared to that of other intellectual professions, such as accountants (8.8%), engineers (7.1%) or corporate reviewers (6.3%). The study also shows that the regulated tariffs for notarial acts are opaque and obsolete: as a result of computerisation, there is no longer any link between the tariffs and the underlying costs of notarial acts. These, Mr Minister, are precisely observations which could possibly be made concerning the profession of judicial officers, which you are well aware of. We have often worked on this subject. The same can also be said for this profession. According to the Observatory's study, the profitability of the profession of bailiff is also very high, of the order of 15%, and the entrepreneurial risk is, you will agree, very low in the profession. Moreover, it is a royal decree of 1976 which sets the price for the acts performed by judicial officers. And it has been a long time since defence associations of over-indebted people denounced the opacity of this regulation, as well as its disconnected character, following computerization. You also know that we are many in Parliament to plead for better control of bailiffs, in particular by the Economic Inspectorate, as well as for a limitation of the costs of recall. In fact, Melissa Depraetere and Leen Dierick accompany me in these fights. Would it not therefore be desirable, like what has been done for notaries, for the Price Observatory to look closely at the functioning of the market of the bailiffs sector in Belgium? This would also make it possible to investigate certain practices such as no cure no pay, which have long been denounced by associations for the defence of persons in debt. Here, minister, are the questions I wanted to ask you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u15	Mr President, honourable Member, thank you for your question. I can already inform you that the Price Observatory has actually started an in-depth study on the functioning of the market of judicial officers in Belgium. The launch of this study is due to several reasons. First of all, as you mentioned, it is, like the notary sector, a sector in which margins are relatively high, while the economic risk to the players is limited. Then, as you also mentioned, the applicable regulation dates back several decades, just like the one that applies to notaries. We can therefore legitimately ask ourselves the question of the adequacy of this regulation with today's reality(s). Finally, this sector is sometimes criticized and has already been the subject of negative media coverage. It is therefore necessary to look at its practices and to objectiveise them. The principle no cure, no pay, which implies that the bailiff is paid by the creditor only in the event of recovery of his claim, will be studied in particular in the framework of this study. This will involve, among other things, trying to determine the impact of this principle on market forces. In conclusion, I would like to highlight the position taken in my policy statement and my willingness to reduce the costs associated with the judicial and amicable recovery of debts. I know that many of you are joining in this process, supporting it, and even anticipating it with the work that you have done in this committee. I have no doubt that the study carried out by the Price Observatory will be particularly useful in this context. This will indeed make it possible to objectify the situation, things and different practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am obviously delighted to hear that the Price Observatory will also look at the profession of judicial officer. I have said this: very high profitability for minimal risks, obsolete pricing, ageing legislation and certainly behind, too, difficulties and abuses. I can tell you that I have dozens of farces in my office that have been sent to me by citizens, consumers who have found abuses, because prices are not sufficiently regulated. There are abuses, particularly in the context of amicable recoveries. For this reason, we had worked on a text with colleagues Melissa Depraetere and Len Dierick. Your answer strengthens us in our willingness to continue to work. I know that the government will do so in its action, but know that in Parliament we will also continue to work in the context of consumer protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u17	Minister, I am told that the Covid Ministerial Order of October 28, 2020 continues to run, by default, for the pyrotechnics sector. Thus, except for category F1, the use of pyrotechnic articles is still prohibited.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u18	Mr Vicar, a ban on the use of fireworks was introduced in the ministerial decree of 28 October 2020 of the Minister of the Interior in the context of crisis management. I would point out that the prohibition was based on the aim of avoiding accidents that would have taken even more time and burdened our emergency services and our first hospital and care line. From now on, this prohibition no longer exists and it is again allowed to use pyrotechnic articles in accordance with the usual safety conditions and the rules on movement and assembly in public space as provided for by the Ministerial Decree. Furthermore, where appropriate, authorisation must also be requested from the competent authorities depending on the type of event. You can reassure those who have questioned you, the purchase and use of pyrotechnics are now again allowed in accordance with the rules that prevailed before the ministerial decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u20	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, I will return to the basic banking service. You know that in October 2020 we decided to bring it into force initially on 1 May 2021. I have already asked several questions about this. You've said there's a little delay. I continue to receive many questions from entrepreneurs who have already had a very difficult time and who are still having a very difficult time, and who are now left in the dark because no new timing has yet been observed. Hence my questions. Where do you stand with it now? Is there still consultation with the stakeholders, with the different stakeholders? What is the situation at the moment? What consultations have you had in the meantime? What's on the schedule? When do you plan to seek advice from the Council of State on this file? When can we finally see it put into effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, thank you for your question. The Basic Banking Service Act and the Implementing Decision contain elements on anti-money laundering. It is essential that the implementing act complies with anti-money laundering legislation, but that complex exercise takes time. The aim is to adopt the implementing decision at the beginning of the autumn. A consultation with the relevant stakeholders is currently taking place. A further consultation will then take place within the working group in which the National Bank of Belgium, the Financial Information Processing Cell, the FPS Finance and the FPS Economy are represented. As a final step, the consolidated implementing act is submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. Exact timing is not possible, as each step depends on several factors. Consultations will take place in the working group mentioned above, as well as with the representatives of the diamond sector, the Febelfin banking federation and the payment institutions. My administration is making every effort to seek advice from the Council of State before the summer recess, which starts on 21 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for providing perspective. I believe that it is important for the people who are in trouble to have a perspective. I understand that the opinion of the Council of State is expected before the summer recess, and the implementing decision is normally due by autumn. We have something to look forward to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u23	Mr President, Minister, a company known as "Zombie" is a company that continues to exist, although it no longer has the means to do so. In Belgium, out of a population of 436 000 companies publishing annual accounts, there are between 36,000 and 40,000 zombie companies, according to the definitions. And 23 305 of them, or 5%, have no employees. It is a phenomenon that is developing throughout Europe but particularly in Belgium. Recently, the newspaper L'Echo highlighted figures from the Graydon office, which has just completed a study on this phenomenon. For Graydon, a zombie company is a company of at least five years old, required to publish accounts and which, during the last three fiscal years, has published negative own means. This means that she survives only by miracle, which is unlikely, or because we continue to inject funds in spite of the lack of profitability. When zombie companies are Belgian subsidiaries, they are often victims of practices of "pumping" profits by the parent company. With the pandemic, many of them have sought assistance from the authorities, including temporary unemployment. While it is difficult to calculate the amount of aid affected by these companies since the start of the health crisis, Graydon has, on the other hand, calculated that among the total capital injection needs to enable companies to cope with the crisis, zombies would absorb 7%, or 5.4 billion out of a total of 77 billion euros. In conclusion, this study tells us that, given that zombie companies are not resilient to shocks, do not innovate, do not generate growth, there is no point in supporting them with public money. Minister, is this phenomenon known to you? How can such structures be prevented from pumping public aid, in particular those put in place to deal with the crisis? Is an employment aid monitoring carried out to avoid feeding this type of company? In general, Minister, how do you intend to deal with this phenomenon of zombie societies that is developing in a worrying way? Do you have a monitoring plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u24	Minister, Belgium is a zombie country on the North Sea, according to Mr Aernoudt. The pilot programme In this respect, with the above professor, the issue of zombie companies, i.e. non-viable companies, was once again raised. It is literally about companies that are trying to survive, but cannot be profitable anymore. These non-viable companies drag the entire economy into their survival struggle. They participate in economic activity and public procurement at bottom prices in order to create just a little income. In the Chamber, a shift has already been made from the moratorium on companies to judicial protection, but what will the government and you do in the fight against these specific zombie companies that may even have been wrongly supported by corona?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u25	Mr President, zombie companies, i.e. non-viable companies, are indeed an important issue. However, excluding so-called "zombies" companies from public aid is a risky strategy. Indeed, precisely identifying them is a difficult and perilous exercise. Companies could be described as zombie companies in the light of their financial accounting, even if they are experiencing only temporary financial difficulties. Such a strategy could therefore strike companies with real prospects for recovery, and be counterproductive. Accounting statistics are not sufficient to determine whether an undertaking is viable or not. Banks and regional financial instruments, for example, assess the risk and viability of companies seeking funding. These assessments are often complex and not based solely on financial accounts. It is therefore necessary to be aware of the risks of attempting to define zombie companies, whereas the aim is to help companies in difficulty. I understand that the aid granted in the context of the covid crisis represents an important budget for the State. They have been and will be in the coming months. However, these are necessary to enable our economy to restart quickly after the closure of containment measures, and without them our economy would have been more severely affected. If Belgium and Europe had shown austerity, we know that our economy would have taken much more time to restart. The socio-economic outlook that is now much more favourable would be much more serious. To help businesses and workers cope with this economic crisis, we have helped companies in difficulty and will continue to do so, unlike the United States, which has made the choice of low-targeted subsidies, such as the granting of a cheque identical to each citizen. We have tried to target our various aid measures as best we can. Our objective has been to avoid the effects of bounty at best without losing sight of the need for us to remain pragmatic and to act urgently. For all these reasons, it does not seem relevant to me to attempt to exclude the zombie companies from the scope of the covid aid. Rather, the time has come to reflect on the gradual abolition of covid aid and to provide the best possible support in the recovery phase of our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answer. You say that it is irrelevant to exclude zombie companies from aid. I'm not joining you in this analysis. On the contrary, I encourage you, together with your firm, to find ways to identify them in a much more reliable way, because they are still, you said, large sums. These large sums must go to the real economy. They must go towards the development of employment, the development of innovation, the development of the economy; and not in zombie societies that will punctuate Belgian public money to give it elsewhere, in something that does not serve the economy. I really encourage you, Mr Minister, to explore this question of identification and to solve this problem in order to identify zombie companies, so that the Belgian public money which is to be used to develop the economy really serves to develop employment, as is your objective since the beginning of this pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u27	Minister, it is very difficult to identify anything. It's very dangerous to interfere. However, I think it is a justified appeal. Since we are the zombie land on the North Sea, there is still a pain point that needs to be worked on. Sometimes other companies are dragged along, so we need to be awake for that. If it can support the economy, it certainly has to be done, but perhaps it is time to mitigate that corona support, which will bring these zombie companies more forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u28	The additional question No. 55018480C, by Mrs Houtmeyers, lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u29	Fintech companies have been gaining momentum in recent years. For example, there are apps that offer consumers a delay of payment so that they can easily buy products on credit. These companies advertise so-called "free loans" and thus actively lower the threshold to buy something on credit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u30	Unlike regular financial institutions, the creditworthiness of consumers is not always checked before granting a delay of payment. This is contrary to consumer credit legislation. The lender must check whether people are able to repay the requested loan. When defaults are registered, the creditor is often not allowed to conclude a new consumer credit agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u31	Mrs Lanjri, there is a legislative framework for fintech companies through the so-called European Directive PSD2. Fintech companies operating in the world of payments should comply with the requirements of the Act of 11 March 2018. This Act of 2018 lays down, inter alia, the licensing requirements and control mechanisms at the National Bank of Belgium. In book VII of the Code of Economic Law, title 3 'Payment services', the consumer protection of the payers has been developed. The Klarna organisation, which you cite in your question, has in Sweden the status of a credit institution and thus the statute of a bank. Klarna is controlled by the Swedish financial regulator and offers its services throughout Europe on the basis of the European passport principle. Other well-known ex post payment providers that are used relatively often have the status of payment institution. They are therefore also subject to the prudential supervision of their national supervisory authorities. With a payment system like Klarna the consumer can buy online and pay only after a certain number of days with his debit and credit card. Or he can decide to pay by bank transfer the same day. Such post-payment companies do not have the status of consumer credit creditor. It is a business model in which one company takes over the processing of an open invoice from another company. The Economic Inspectorate is following the new trends in the payment landscape. The companies offering post-payment are not the first in the ranking. It is up to the webshop that offers this payment option to inform consumers very clearly about the principle of post-payment. The contact and order details of the consumer are passed on and then the fintech company itself makes the assessment whether the customer is accepted and can pay for his spending. This is evident from the analysis at a number of web stores. There is therefore a prior approval procedure for purchases. They are not automatically accepted and can therefore be refused. If the ex post payment is not accepted, the consumer must pay his order in a different way. Since this payment option is mainly offered through webshops, it is mainly used by online shoppers. In view of the strict regulatory framework that these companies must comply with, I believe that it is sufficient at the moment to monitor the reports that may be submitted against them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u32	Minister, you know that in principle I am not a member of this committee. You often see me on the other committee, namely the Social Affairs Committee. I also follow the fight against poverty. If I ask you this question, it is because of a concern that people are building a debt mountain by making quick purchases via an app without having to pay them immediately. We know this is already a problem. Cash can't be spent until one has it. With a credit card it can be even more anonymous and one can spend money that one does not have. This way goes even further. With this app you can spend money without having a credit card. You say it's up to the webshop itself to warn people, but I read other things on these webshops. "Shopping has never been so safe, effortless and fun." That sounds nice and airy, but sobering comes later, when one finds that one cannot afford it. That's why I think we really need to do more than just monitor it. Or we'll have to do it very quickly, and we'll have to act quickly. People get into trouble differently. Your colleague, Vincent Van Quickenborne, is already working out a whole scheme to deal with the debt mountain and the associated costs, because we know that a small invoice of 30 euros can increase to 1,000 euros by additional costs. We cannot just allow this to happen without intervening. At some point, we must intervene, at least by warning of the dangers involved. Can you take initiatives to warn the consumer about dealing so lightly with an app as if it were all free? After all, nothing is free.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u33	Mr President, Minister, there has been a great deal of misery over the past year, in health, in personal and financial terms, but also in economic terms. At the moment, it looks like the economy is getting back on track. The National Bank predicts that in 2022 the level of pre-corona crisis will be reached. During the past period, companies have used up their stocks on the basis of the principle of caution. As aggregate demand continues to increase, there has been a particularly severe shortage on the markets, not only in Belgium, but in the world. In addition, we see that the search for qualified personnel to cope with this peak is not evident. Minister, a few weeks ago I asked you an oral question on this issue. You said at that time that we cannot assume that these rising commodity and transport prices will lead to inflation of more than 2%. However, Minister, I believe that there is much more going on at the moment. I am confronted daily with forwarded e-mails from companies, announcing price increases. It is 11 %, 20 %, there are even prices that double. We must not close our eyes to this. Eventually, someone will have to pay for those price increases. I can therefore only recommend that you look into this in practice. You will undoubtedly feel it yourself when you are at the pump and that is just the tip of the iceberg. Economists have been afraid for some time that supply cannot follow demand sufficiently. We are thinking of price increases for semiconductors, basic chemicals, copper and wood. It is now said that there will be a general inflation surge. This powerful recovery, which is temporary in nature, also raises the prices for the sea transport of containers. For the first time in history, it costs over $10,000 to ship a standard container from China to Antwerp. This means that container freight rates are up to ten times higher than they were a year ago. After submitting my interview, that continued to rise, because yesterday I saw offers of EUR 14,500. I would like to give you an easy calculation example. Suppose the goods in a container represent a value of 10,000 euros while the container cost about 1,250 euros a year ago. This resulted in a total of 11,250 euros. The same goods of 10,000 euros cost 24,500 euros today with the same container, more than a doubling. This arithmetic example is a sign on the wall. In the meantime, these price increases continue to be carried out, because, as is the case in a value chain, they go on and on until they reach the consumer. It's about raw materials, packaging, parts and transport. From a macroeconomic point of view, the value of that inflation basket will in any case increase. So life will be more expensive. The past teaches us that price increases are often seen by companies as an achievement for the future. It is not because there is now a temporary peak because the economy cannot follow, that prices will fall again in the future. I always compare it to a pack of fries in the fry. When there is a bad potato season, the price of fries goes up, but if the following year is a good potato season, those fries will not fall in price. That logic can perfectly be traced to what we are seeing today. In order to restore consumer purchasing power, inflation will be inevitable and wages will have to rise, but that will once again encourage inflation. As you know, inflation in the economy always leads to inflation. Minister, as it becomes increasingly clear that price increases are gradually being passed on to consumers, the increase in the inflation basket seems inevitable. Do you still believe that inflation is capped at only 1.6 %? What have you done to protect consumers' purchasing power? How do you look at this vis-à-vis the other European countries and at the global level, also looking at our competitive position? How will you avoid creating a potential vicious circle of inflation, which will ultimately encourage new inflation? How will you break that circle? Finally, what have you done to reduce our import dependence? I have just noticed that container prices have increased by more than tenfold. These are goods that come on our market. The consumer is obliged to pay those increases. Will you develop incentives for reshoring for certain important parts and industries in this country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u34	Mr President, Mr Van Lommel, between January and May 2021, inflation in Belgium reached an average of 0.86%. This inflation rate is therefore lower than the average inflation rate over the last five years, i.e. 1.54 % in the period 2015-2020. For all product groups, inflation was already limited: 0.4% for energy, 1.3 % for processed food, 1.4% for unprocessed food, 0.1 % for non-energy industrial goods and 1.3 % for services. On a monthly basis, however, inflation recorded a slight increase from 0.25 % in January to 1.46 % in May. According to the latest forecasts of May 2021 of the Federal Planning Bureau, inflation in Belgium was expected to reach an average of 1.5 % in 2021 and 1.6 % in 2022, which is a limited inflation rate. After all, the European Central Bank is not aiming at inflation of 2%. However, I continue to follow the figures carefully and have asked my administration to follow the situation further. As you know, there is a unique system of automatic indexation of wages and social benefits in Belgium, so that consumers' purchasing power evolves with the increased lifespan. There is also an agreement within the government to strengthen the Belgian Competition Authority to reduce prices in the long term. On receipt of the opinion of the Council of State, this draft law will be submitted to Parliament. Hopefully this will work before the parliamentary recess. In 2020, inflation in our neighbours Germany, France and the Netherlands reached an average of 0.5 %. Inflation in Belgium, 0.4%, was as high as in Germany and lower than in France and the Netherlands. In the first quarter of 2021, average inflation in our main neighbouring countries was between 1.5 % and 1.8 % for the Netherlands, 1.6 % for Germany and 1% for France. Inflation in Belgium, 0.8 %, remained lower than in each of our main neighbouring countries. I am following the situation closely, but there is currently no inflationary spiral. I would also like to point out that the European Central Bank has an important role to play in this by adjusting interest rates. I would also like to point out that the rise in raw materials and freight prices is an international phenomenon. Possible solutions should therefore be developed at European level rather than at national level. In this context, when renewing the industrial strategy, the European Commission has taken an initiative to identify the import dependence of certain raw materials and products. Together with my services, I follow closely the further developments and possible initiatives in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u35	Minister, you say that inflation has so far been 0.86% this year, and you insist that we will reach 1.5 or 1.6 % this year. However, you must understand that the companies have long tried to stop price increases. If something happens at the beginning of the chain, there is a certain lead time before it reaches the consumer. That's the way it is with supply chains. At the moment, inflation may still be limited, but I expect this to become a much bigger problem in the future. We can already see that transport prices are beginning to be calculated in goods imported with containers from China, for example. Televisions and other things are becoming more expensive, that's just a fact. The inflation basket cannot be left behind and this year we are stuck at 1.5 or 1.6 %. That goes against what I hear in the corporate world. The managers are concerned and say that they can't otherwise charge the price increases. We all know that when prices rise, even though this increase is caused by a temporary phenomenon, higher prices are then seen as an acquisition. The price of petrol will fall again in the future but certain goods will remain expensive because the price increase will be maintained. You say that rising transport prices are an international phenomenon, and that is, of course, true. At the end of the journey, our consumers will have to pay for it. It's our people who will eventually have to pay more in the store. In any case, this deserves sufficient attention. Parliament must follow this closely. In the past, I have often referred to cases in these committees that I was concerned about at the time, when it was said that it would not be so bad. Unfortunately, I was told to be right months later. I can only hope that this is not the case here. In any case, inflation means that people's savings will be reduced in value, even if wages will increase at that time. You say there's a mechanism. At the time of inflation, wages will rise, but consumers' purchasing power will fall, even temporarily. When companies have to pay more to their staff, they will ultimately recalculate those higher costs to their customers. Of course, that's how it's gonna last. I have tabled this interplay in order to have more speaking time because I think it is an important subject. Two minutes was actually too little. In this way, we can discuss this in an appropriate way. Nevertheless, you are still too light about it. There's a lot more going on. That is why I have tabled a motion for a recommendation. I'll deliver it to the chairman. With this motion, we are asking the government to ensure maximum protection of our consumers' purchasing power and also to look at inflation. We certainly need to be vigilant about that. At the same time, measures must also be taken to reduce our import dependence. Incentives must therefore be taken to reshor important sectors. It is certainly not my intention to draw a wall around Flanders and Belgium. We are living in a global economy, but we can see that economic dependence on the world market means that we are in that whole story and that consumers are ultimately the victims of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u36	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economy and Work, - in view of the scarcity of raw materials on a global scale, caused by increasing demand as a result of the economic recovery after COVID-19, - in view of the increase in transport costs, the price of transport by ship increased more than tenfold, - having regard to the passing on of rising costs in the value chain, which ultimately lead to a higher price level for consumers; - whereas calculated price increases are generally no longer withdrawn and this will lead to an increase in the inflation basket; - whereas inflation implies that: · reduce the value of savings; · the purchasing power of consumers is falling; • an increase in wages, which will then be redistributed to the final customer, resulting in a new inflation; asks the government - to ensure maximum protection of the purchasing power of our consumers; - a vicious inflationary circle created by breaking the current economic context; - take measures to reduce our import dependence and to introduce incentives for reshoring for key sectors." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Labour, - in view of the global shortage of raw materials due to an increase in demand resulting from the post-covid economic recovery; - in view of the increase in transport costs, the price of maritime transport has increased more than tenfold; - in view of the impact of the increase in costs in the value chain which ultimately results in an increase in the price level for the consumer; - Whereas price increases are generally not neutralised, which will lead to an increase in the basket used in the calculation of inflation; - Whereas inflation implies that: · savings lose value; · the purchasing power of consumers is decreasing; · an increase in wages is necessary, which will then affect the final customer resulting in new inflation; asks the government - to protect as much as possible the purchasing power of consumers; - to break the vicious cycle of inflation which would be caused by the current economic context; - take measures to reduce our dependence on imports and to create incentives for relocation to key sectors." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Prévot. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Patrick Prévot. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. With the agreement of Mr Parent, I give the floor first to Mr Ducrame for his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u37	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Parent for giving me the opportunity to ask my question before him, since I must join the data room of the Defence Committee. To thank him, I sat on the benches of Ecolo-Groen, which gives me a strange feeling.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u38	Welcome!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u39	I would also like to thank the minister for changing the order of the answers. This is a subject which we have already discussed on several occasions in committee from November to March. We had an exchange of views on the way in which insurance companies were expected to consider being more supportive of the sectors affected by the closures caused by the health crisis. With the help of the President, we also held hearings of insurance companies. This led, on 13 April, to the statement you made that they had committed themselves to reconnecting with the various sectors most affected and to making proposals on the ground in relation to bonuses which – from our point of view, quite unanimous in Parliament – were unduly demanded, since companies, be it hairdressers, restorers or managers of businesses related to leisure or events, had been closed for months. We wanted to see in fact whether this insurance company announcement was being followed. We had a pretty unpleasant surprise. Both through scattered contacts on the ground and through a more structured survey carried out by the SNI of its members, it turns out that two thirds of the members interviewed were not contacted by their insurance on that date. I want to stress what I am translating as a form of cynicism in the head of insurance, which do us a communication campaign by telling us that they will return to the affected operators, but which, in fact, do not systematically contact again and do not propose, when they do, repayments in sufficient proportion from the point of view of the NIS. Sometimes they offer only deferrals of payments without offering a discount or retroactive refund proportionate to the premiums unduly paid by the independents. Minister, can you go back to the insurance companies and present us with a report on the concrete action they are expected to take in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u40	Mr President, not only do I understand your concern, but I also share it. I made the commitment here before you to come back with a monitoring of what was actually done on the ground by the insurance companies as support to the sector and especially to the companies and independents most affected by the crisis. Insurance companies had undertaken to contact their customers in these particularly affected sectors and to offer a series of refunds and commercial gestures or, in any event, to reassess the individual situation of each contractor and independent in these sectors. I am told that more than 100,000 letters have been sent to these independents and entrepreneurs. This is a first step, an important step, because a contact was actually to be made by the insurance company or broker depending on the situation of these independents and contractors. But this is not enough. I also made a commitment to you to work together to verify the effectiveness of the announcement made by these insurance companies. I don't want to sue for intent. I trust a priori, but this monitoring must take place. I had committed myself to it and I will. I expect from Assuralia a monitoring and a return for the end of this month. I have also planned to cross-check this information with the various professional federations. I think it's important, as you recalled, to have the two bell sounds and see if what was announced and presented happened on the ground. The commitment I have made to you and to the whole committee to carry out a monitoring will be achieved by the end of this month. I hope that we will find the modalities for organizing the transfer of information in order to be able to judge on a piecemeal basis what the behaviour of insurance companies has been in relation to these particularly affected entrepreneurs and independents. I will therefore give you an appointment in a few days to discuss this monitoring once I have received the information from insurance companies via Assuralia and have been able to cross-check them with the various professional federations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u41	Minister, thank you. That's really the answer I've been waiting for. I believe that, unfortunately, a number of organisations, such as insurance companies, only understand the balance of power. You publicly indicate here that you are going to submit a monitoring to see if the information that is delivered to us by the SNI is correct. We are told that two thirds of those interviewed were not contacted again. It's because the bat hurts somewhere. It will therefore be necessary to continue to put pressure on these insurance companies, who are still being strongly prayed for, who have been faster to collect undue premiums than to return to their customers who have been hit by the crisis of the covid-19 and who have unduly paid a number of premiums. Thank you for continuing to keep this file, as you do, and urging insurance companies to meet their commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u42	Mr Minister, as you have seen, I am a patient Member of Parliament, but on the subject of banking distributors, this patience is being put to the test. You know the file very well. Since 2015, 1,300 ticket distributors have disappeared in our country. The Batopin consortium, which brings together the four major Belgian banks, plans to divide by three, according to its own terms, the number of places served by ticket distributors. According to DeTijd, the impact of this optimisation will be far-reaching in provinces such as Luxembourg and Namur, which you know very well. There, less than two in three people would still have a vending machine available within a five-kilometre radius. We had the opportunity to debate in committee and in plenary last March the question of the disappearance of bank distributors. Since then, there have been new closures of distributors, particularly in the province of Liège. There is also the question of the bpost management contract. The issue of distributors was discussed. Discussions are under way and are not completed. Working groups have also been set up under the aegis of the National Bank to work in particular on the issue of distributors, which is partly in line with our requests. In addition, the mobilization of the associations, in recent days, is also to be put on the account of the current situation on the subject. We fear that these existing mechanisms, this topicality and the reflections that we are carrying out here, including in Parliament through various parliamentary proposals, will arrive a little late in the matter. Batopin and the big banks are moving forward. You have made a commitment to work on a project to establish a universal banking service. Compared to all this news, I had a few questions to ask. What's your status in the development schedule of your universal banking project? Will this project be of particular concern to urban and rural areas, now under pressure from this banking desertification? To work in a more serene environment, can you request the freezing of the Batopin project pending the implementation of your project and any related obligations? What is the scope of the discussions initiated with the voluntary sector within the National Bank? Are they seeking to establish a framework, regulation, as in the Netherlands for citizens' access to distributors, or will they be more of a global recommendation to the banking sector? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u43	Mr Parent, thank you for your various questions. With regard to the universal banking service, I can tell you that negotiations with the various parties are continuing and that the objective is always to reach a solution and a proposal by July 2021. The universal banking service will not, as such, have an impact on the number and distribution of ATMs since it aims to introduce a minimum number of banking services linked to a payment account. This service is intended to address the digital divide in which some people, particularly the elderly but not only, are victims. This service aims to enable these people to continue to be able to manage their account in a traditional way, i.e. without going through online services. Of course, I am this problem with the utmost attention. I am also aware of the importance of the presence and accessibility of distributors in the national territory, particularly in the rural areas that I am fond of and from which I come. The working group set up within the National Bank brought together a number of participants. Unfortunately for us, all participants in this working group had to sign a confidentiality clause. I am therefore unfortunately not allowed to reveal to you the content of these discussions. But I hope and do not doubt that at some point we can succeed and that we will come to report on the reflections, the work and the progress made with you. For its part, the National Bank has developed a model to evaluate the accessibility of the population to the various banking distributors, both for the facilities of levies and payments. The model therefore uses data on the population and on the location as well as on the different features of the distributors. Data on current distributors - those used by the National Bank - are from Febelfin. The National Bank has also received information from Batopin on the planned future settlements. They have also been incorporated into the model, so that they can assess the impact on the accessibility of our citizens to cash. The results of this model were presented to the National Retail Payments Committee (NRPC) sub-group "Cash". This group, chaired by the National Bank, is composed of members from different backgrounds: political representatives, consumers, banking institutions, money carriers and traders. However, as you also know, the National Bank does not have any legislative or regulatory framework to take binding measures in this regard. We are in a different context from that of the Netherlands. In any case, I do not despair that these various dossiers will be completed. We will come back to that in a few moments, since other parliamentarians are asking me about the action of Financité. So this is where we are today in the many works carried out by my firm, myself and the National Bank. I hope that we will be able to take stock in the coming weeks and that I will be able to bring you good news on this important issue for the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is clear that there are different aspects to the file. Universal banking is an important way to answer the questions of the digital divide. This leaves us out of the debate on distributors stricto sensu, even if both are linked. I am also pleased to hear the various information about the work carried out under the auspices of the National Bank. It's important! In the Batopin dossier, I note from the beginning a certain lack of transparency on the part of the banking sector; a mismatch between speeches and facts, the promise of a strengthened service while it will be out of line with the current situation, and not that a little - there are real risks; the promise of a more intelligent management of the organization of distributors, but in fact, an organised shortage in rural areas and in neighbourhoods in the periphery, in particular Namur and Luxembourg. Despite the debates in Parliament, despite the mobilisation of civil society, despite your commitments to the universal banking service, the issue of distributors remains in fact essentially confiscated by banks today. The big banks are moving forward, setting their framework. I think it is time, in one way or another, to tell them stop, to be able to think about how to set rules and obligations. Accessibility of banking services and access to cash is a matter of equality between citizens, of combating the digital divide. I think we need to give ourselves every means to see how to get back in hand now. We are counting on you, but also on the interesting work that is being done within the National Bank with civil society to see how we can take over this issue. I thank you, anyway, for your different answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u45	Mr Minister, on Monday 14 June, we were informed by the press that Financia had lodged a complaint with the Belgian Competition Authority concerning the companies Batopin and Jofico, two private bank consolidation initiatives concerning ticket distributors. Financie considers that these company creations should have been notified in advance to the Autorité de concurrence, which apparently has not been done. On the other hand, Financité points to a possible infringement of the rules on restrictive competition practices. Minister, how do you react to the complaint brought by Financia? Within which time will the Belgian Competition Authority be able to respond to this complaint? What are the possible consequences for the continuation of the Jofico and Batopin projects if this complaint leads to objected offences?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u46	Mr President, Minister Financité, an ASBL fighting for more financial inclusion of the population, has lodged a complaint with the Belgian Competition Authority against the two banking groups dealing with ticket distributors, Batopin and Jofico. Batopin brings together the country's four largest banks, BNP Paribas Fortis, KBC, ING and Belfius, while Jofico is constituted by Argenta, AXA Banque, Crelan, vdk bank and bpost. These two associations aim to collectively manage the ticket distributors for the banks that make up them, by organizing a network that is more rational. Batopin, for example, promises to put a distributor within a radius of up to five kilometres of the home of 95% of the population. But what seems at first glance a logical and positive project is much less promising by digging a bit. Banks linked to Batopin currently have 5,062 distributors, a number that would be greatly reduced, since there are 2,000 to 2,400 automatons installed at 650 to 750 sites. According to Financité, distributors would not be better distributed in the territory via Batopin because 60% of Belgians currently have access to a distributor less than one kilometre from their home. For Financité, quoted by Le Soir, "it is incomprehensible that such companies whose activity consists in greatly reducing the service to users have been able to appear without any restrictions". The ASBL adds: "Together, the founding companies have a turnover of more than EUR 100 million. If they set up a joint venture, they must notify their project to the National Competition Authority. Now, to our knowledge, there is no record of such cases." Minister, how is it that the Batopin and Jofico projects have not been notified to the Belgian Competition Authority? Is that normal? What do you plan to do if necessary? In your opinion, is it acceptable to further reduce the number of ticket distributors, as foreseen in the Batopin project? Do these two parallel projects and the risk of falling service they represent not demonstrate the inefficiency of such private initiatives to meet the needs of the population? Should we not instead have a public body, financed by banks, to manage all distributors in a rational manner and according to standards appropriate to social needs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your various questions, which fall well into point after Mr Parent's question. As you know, Financité is an ASBL that acts on the issue of financial inclusion. This organization is therefore working on access to financial services that are essential to everyone. As such, it is quite normal for Financia to act in this way on the subject of banking distributors, especially with regard to the Jofico and Batopin projects. If I understand the willingness of the banks to pool some of their costs, this cannot be done at the expense of the interests of the consumer, especially the weaker consumers. This cannot lead to an increase in consumer prices or to a deterioration in the quality of the services offered, whether in urban or rural areas. I consider it essential that the Jofico and Batopin projects can ensure that users have sufficient presence, accessibility and proximity of distributors throughout the national territory, both in the city and in the countryside. It is still too early to say whether the action of Financia will have an effect on the continuation of the Batopin and Jofico projects, but I am of course paying particular attention to this. To this end, I have planned to meet again with the main actors of these two projects. I had already had prior contacts when I took up my duties. We have contacts within the framework of the various initiatives mentioned earlier. It is urgent to meet them again. With regard to your second and third question, Mr Lacroix, I can inform you that on the basis of information provided by the Belgian Competition Authority, the complaint lodged by Financié will be examined as soon as possible by the Auditorate in order to establish whether an investigation should be opened into the alleged practices. However, it is already apparent from the information received from the Belgian Competition Authority that, to date, the Auditorate has not received a notification or draft notification concerning the formation of the Jofico and Batopin joint ventures. The auditorate has indicated that it will verify without delay the extent to which these transactions should have been considered concentrations and, as such, should have been notified in advance to the Belgian Competition Authority. If it turns out that these transactions should have been notified, in addition to a possible fine, Jofico and Batopin will have to notify their respective operations to the Belgian Competition Authority. Pending the decision of the Autorité, they will not be able to implement and implement their respective bank groups with regard to ticket distributors, except in derogation. So it's a case to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your answers, which are obviously valuable and important. They mean that there is a major risk for Batopin and Jofico, because according to the information at your disposal today, they have not notified anything about anything. Maybe they had to. It would be a first check to do, as you said. The second element is the following. I feel like once again, Batopin and Jofico are working like cowboys. I'm sorry for that kind of picaresque expression, if I may say so. But the municipal elected representatives are not consulted for the installation of ATMs following these two companies. We do not have access to algorithms that allow them to say that there would be better attendance at a particular location. Nevertheless, it is true that guaranteeing 95% of vending machines within five kilometres of the home of our citizens by replacing 82% of distributors within a two-kilometre radius is a reduction in service to the population. Let us also remember, as Financité says, and I share 200% of these words, that using cash is a right. It is also a freedom that the consumer and the citizen must be allowed to use without any restriction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u49	Minister, thank you. I understand your answer, but let me stress the need for concrete results. The number of ticket distributors has already drastically decreased. We have to stop the decline, and we would even need an increase, to put distributors back in the municipalities where there are no more. I therefore believe that these binding measures are necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u50	Minister, the cross-cutting anti-fraud plan involving different federal government ministers envisages increasing the proportion of electronic payments, including by requiring any trader to have such a means of payment in 2022. For a long time, we have had negative feedback from small traders about the costs charged to them for electronic payments, especially since it is forbidden to charge customers these costs. The obligation will only increase this problem. In its June 14 edition, La Nouvelle Gazette du Centre confirms this concern. The daily led the investigation in La Louvière and title: "The electronic payment imposed in 2022 scares small Louvierois traders". He quotes in particular Fabio, owner of a pasta bar: "Ten years ago I bought my Bancontact terminal myself for 800 euros, in order to avoid paying a rental, but I was kidnapped three years ago, because it was no longer standard. Here, I should rent it at least 100 euros per month, plus transaction costs, it will cost us extra." The Independent adds: "We are just beginning to emerge from this crisis. Here I have many students who come to buy a can, a sandwich or other for small amounts, I do not see myself imposing an expense threshold on them to use the electronic payment and be profitable in transaction costs". In its plans to increase the share of electronic payments, does the government take into account the economic problem for small traders? In what way? Do you not find that the government should impose lower fixed and variable rates for electronic payments borne by small independents?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u51	Mr President, an earlier analysis by the Price Observatory shows that, for certain types of businesses, the costs associated with electronic payments are still too high. For example, for products whose prices are regulated (newspapers, tobacco, lotteries, prepaid cards), the margins of traders are relatively low and further reduced by the cost of electronic payment. But the same study also shows that the overall cost for traders decreased between 2015 and 2019. Thanks to technological innovation, it is no longer necessary for a trader to rent or buy a payment terminal. For payments with the payconiq application, for example, only transaction fees are payable. The arrival and development of Fintech and other innovative payment methods have a positive effect on competition that can result in a cost reduction effect for traders. This expands the offer to traders who can find the most suitable electronic payment for them. Nor should we forget the advantages of electronic payments even for small traders. They are less prone to fraud and error than cash payments. Let us not forget that cash payments also involve costs such as the time spent counting money, keeping it safe, bringing it to the bank, etc. A Dutch study suggests that the costs of cash payments in the Netherlands are now higher than those of electronic payments. If more electronic payments are made, the entire ecosystem (payment system provider, issuer and purchaser) will benefit financially. It is therefore necessary to examine with the whole sector how the fixed and variable costs of the trader can still be reduced. Furthermore, it should be more efficient for the trader to compare costs between different suppliers, but payment service providers cannot be required to operate in a particular way either, as this could have a restrictive effect on freedom of trade.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u52	Minister, thank you. It is essential that an effective solution be put in place to reduce the costs charged for electronic payments before any trader is required to have an electronic means of payment. A government initiative to lower rates for electronic payments therefore seems to me to be necessary, and so it is necessary. It is imperative to have results before 1 January 2022. We cannot therefore simply wait for self-regulation by the sector. I still have a little example. No later than yesterday, the bookseller told me that, by selling a scraper ticket from the Lottery, if the customer pays with his card, the cost of the transaction costs him more than the profit margin given to him by the National Lottery. So he's going to sell at a loss, which is completely forbidden. This bookseller has highlighted this problem, which is very much in concert.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u53	"Do you know that the Bangladesh Agreement on Building and Fire Safety in Bangladesh expires on 31 May and that, to date, the clothing brands of the Bangladesh Agreement have not yet signed a new agreement in order to maintain the binding commitments made on the basis of the first Agreement of 2013? If so, what efforts are you making to reach a new agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u54	Mr President, I would also like to refer to the written question that has been tabled. Mrs Van Hoof, by the way, has been excused, she is still on the Committee on External Relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u55	Madam and Mr Members, thank you for your questions. The Bangladesh Agreement, as it is called, signed immediately after the deadly collapse of the Rana Plaza building on 24 April 2013, has helped to make workplaces much safer for millions of workers – and, in particular, workers – of Bangladeshi clothing. This is an agreement between the social partners, for which the levers of public action are limited. However, Belgium has repeatedly expressed its support for the objectives of the agreement. This was achieved in particular in 2019 in the form of several awareness-raising actions for the textile sector in Belgium, in partnership with the federations CREAMODA, FEDUSTRIA and COMEOS. The situation of workers and their families in the textile sector on a global scale is far from perfect. In most cases, these workers are still exploited economically, risk their lives and do not have the free time to organize and defend themselves. One of the key challenges is therefore to ensure that social standards are respected across all supply chains. In this context, my priority is to continue the work of the International Labour Organization (ILO). For more than a hundred years, as you know, this tripartite organization has been producing binding labour standards and monitoring their effective application on the ground. This is the safest way to strengthen workers' rights and promote real social progress. Specifically for Bangladesh, the 343rd session of the International Labour Conference, which opened on 31 May 2021, examines the report of the Government of Bangladesh in the implementation of a road map including labour inspection. The content of the Bangladesh Agreement and its renewal will therefore be well dealt with by the ILO Governing Council. The International Labour Organisation can address the difficulties that brands face in introducing their national inspection systems. Compliance with ILO standards is, in fact, primarily the responsibility of governments. More generally, the ILO is continuing its efforts to involve multinationals in the implementation of ILO values and standards. Belgium will place this issue at the centre of its priorities during its next term in the ILO Governing Council from June 2021 to June 2024. In particular, social dialogue and decent work in export-free zones will be major points of attention. In this context, the European Commission is working to develop a European legislative initiative on the duty of due diligence of companies. Our country participated in the public consultation by providing an opinion supporting an ambitious position both on the part of the federal and regional authorities. In addition, this topic will be a top priority in Belgium's second National Business and Human Rights Action Plan, which is currently being prepared by Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive and exciting response because, as you know, you can count on a number of parliamentarians who really support these binding legislations on the duty of vigilance. It was France that set the example in 2017, with a first domestic law in this area, but we believe in it and we are really convinced of it. We have, moreover, recently voted on a resolution in the Committee on External Relations to support all these efforts at international level, with the UN Treaty in Geneva on human rights and business and, at European level, with Commissioner Reynders, who has promised new European legislation on the issue of the duty of vigilance. But I think that, at Belgian level, there are really things to be done, like other countries, such as the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and France. It is therefore really essential to be able to continue working on this Bangladesh agreement, which, in fact, provides important, vital, social and environmental standards for the protection of workers in the textile sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic515x.u57	Certain Belgian companies are taking on their responsibilities in this area. You said that there was already an awareness campaign in 2019. Maybe the time is right to repeat it. These companies rightly complain that there is no level playing field if others do not accept their responsibility. That also prevents them from taking far-reaching measures. That is why binding rules are very important for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which avoids a race to the bottom. Better would be an international, European and Belgian law on care obligations. The second National Action Plan is currently being prepared. The Universal Periodic Reviews (UPR) also recommend regulations. A research institute has published a report that reflects Belgian progress in entrepreneurship and human rights. That report also recommends this regulation. There is no doubt that progress can be made and we are looking forward to it.
