ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u1	Madam Minister, the question I tabled in connection with the impact of the second wave of the COVID-19 crisis dates back to a while ago, but, as you know, has not become less topical in view of the latest complications on our foreign theatres, I am not thinking least of Niger. I will be brief on my introduction, which is clear. Madam Secretary, we know the impact or direct or indirect implications on the foreign missions for Niger. I would like to know whether there are other theatres or other implications in which Belgian soldiers participate. If so, can you explain it in detail, within the framework of the publicity that this entails? Have any additional infections occurred with military personnel on mission abroad? If so, how many? On what missions? Are there currently changes needed on various theatres regarding rotation plans? We went through that last year as part of our operation in Mali. Does that still apply at the moment to any theatre where we are active? What concrete consequences are there for our people on the ground, both in terms of the duration of development and in terms of the use of the virus, security of supply and so on, as a result of the global regeneration of the virus? This also applies to access to protective materials such as clothing, mouth masks and the like. Are there any implications or movements there that indicate a possible problem? If that is not the case, then that is all the better. Madam Minister, in the context of this question, could you clarify the proper procedure regarding the quarantine obligations of our soldiers abroad? This question was asked in temporary non-suspecto, but is not less topical at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u2	Mr. Defosse learns fast! So I will try to ask my question as quickly as possible. Minister, the situation in Niger leads us to ask different questions. The infection of our soldiers on mission abroad required that some 40 be imposed on them. So what about their withdrawal and rotation within them? We are also wondering about the future of our ongoing missions, given the resurgence of the covid all over the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u3	Madam Secretary, I will confine myself to the question. We have learned from sources within the Medical Component that there would have been a negative opinion on the operation in Niger because of the "suboptimal on-site medical support and the lack of national medical evacuation devices that make it difficult to get critical patients back to Belgium." That's pretty euphemistic, but is it true that there was a negative opinion? Can you confirm that the Defense Department has asked whether the detachment that is preparing to leave for Niger could already be vaccinated, but that this was rejected by Public Health? Do you agree that the Belgian military in foreign operations should be included in the national vaccination strategy as essential personnel? I think we are not alone in this proposal, are we, Mr Pillen? If not, why do you reject this? If so, will you submit this to the government and within what time frame? What plans about the vaccination process for our military on foreign missions have already been developed by the defence staff? Within what time frame do we see this? How many vaccines are needed to guarantee our operations abroad? Have vaccination requirements been set by our allies for joint operations involving participation? What's our evacuation strategy? Is it true that anyone who has covid abroad should be repatriated? Is that the same strategy that our partner countries are pursuing? Does this affect the field operations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I had converted this question into a written question, but it is not the first time that I have noticed that you are very fast with your answers. That's very good. I do not know whether colleagues have noticed that you are responding within the time limit. I hope, first and foremost, that the military in question will be okay. I have heard that some of them are in a less good medical situation. I hope they've been recovered. Mr President, I had indeed launched this in response to the press release by the Defence Minister. I think we should vaccinate the military before they go to surgery. That is not obvious, of course. Everyone is currently in a race for vaccination, but I think we should continue to work on this with this committee. I do not think we should take a risk with the safety of the people, whom we send for our safety to inhospitable areas such as Niger. I have two specific questions. Is there any more concrete information on this? Will military personnel be vaccinated on the spot abroad when they are in the order of precedence laid down for the vaccinations? Is the D.O.D. thinking about that yet? I will also go along with the President's question. Any news from the allies? Some countries already have restrictions, for example on yellow fever. In some African countries, you can't enter without a vaccine for yellow fever. Is something moving there? Will we have to vaccinate people before we send them out? That is a legitimate question from the President, and I agree with him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u5	Mr President, within the Defence, the fight against the spread of the virus is being fought both nationally and abroad. CHOD has taken the necessary steps to ensure Defence's current and future operational commitments. Our military adhere to Belgian directives and local mandatory measures. With regard to missions abroad, our soldiers contribute to the fight against the spread of the virus by strictly applying both the Belgian guidelines and the mandatory local measures. The export of the virus to the operating areas is minimised by strict 14 day quarantine or isolation and testing prior to departure. Each detachment has a team that ensures the daily medical follow-up of our military. In March, frigate Leopold I interrupted his mission. After about 40 years, it was found that 65% of the crew had been carrying the virus. More recently, after their return from mission in December, it appeared that 29 members of the MINUSMA detachment had been in contact with the virus. Most recently, some 50 military personnel participating in the New Nero Operation in Niger had to be repatriated. Twenty-seven of them had been tested positive for covid. The others had been in high-risk contact. Since the beginning of this crisis, 79 people were repatriated from operations, 74 from Africa and 5 from Asia. The rotations of the detachments shall be carried out, if possible, according to the initial schedule and with respect for the sanitary measures. There are no changes in the rotation plans to ensure the execution of our assignments and tasks. Indirect implications are felt in restrictions imposed by foreign nations, for example in civil aviation. Thus, the disappearance of civil air traffic results in additional efforts to replace the personnel by military means of European partners. With regard to the mission in Niger, the military confirmed that the soldiers who had proved to be positive at covid and the soldiers exposed to high-risk contact had been repatriated. They are placed under quarantine in a hotel reserved exclusively for this purpose. Two repatriated soldiers were hospitalized for one and three days, respectively. Currently, no one needs additional medical care. These soldiers are closely monitored and a test sequence is planned. The test results will confirm the hotel's exit after the quarantine period. Among the high-risk contacts, one additional person was tested positive. The repatriated soldiers will not return to the operational area. As their mission was nearing completion, a replacement was already planned between 18 and 27 January. A new limited detachment has been set up to ensure the security of Belgian facilities and to maintain essential links with the Nigerian armed forces. The timing of the full redeployment is unknown at this time. This new detachment limits external contacts to the strict minimum. The probability of Belgian soldiers transmitting the virus to Niger's local personnel is extremely low due to the quarantine imposed before departure. The entire mission is not called into question. The resumption of training activities is currently the subject of a study to be carried out in consultation with the Niger authorities on the spot. The safety of our staff will guide the planning process. Each operation is analysed on all aspects and identified risks are discussed to develop mitigation measures. This allows the operation to take place at an acceptable risk. This was also the case for the ONN (Operation New Nero), where the medical component carried out a thorough analysis. Within the Defence Staff, all elements were weighed up and the necessary resources and mitigation measures were taken to ensure a maximum feasible and acceptable medical support plan. The vectors for air transport available to the Defence Department autonomously are indeed more limited than in previous years. This makes Defence more dependent on partners or commercial solutions, which can reduce the flexibility of intervention. However, everything has been put in place to ensure that strategic transport operations are carried out as quickly as possible. In view of the broad commitment of Defence, both during this covid crisis in Belgium and in other domestic and foreign operations, it is necessary to allow each member of staff involved in these operations to be vaccinated. This will enable them to take up their mandate in safe conditions during this engagement. A request for emergency vaccination for 1,800 priority defence personnel, in addition to the priority groups determined by the High Health Council, was sent. This was based on the assumption that Defence as an essential profession will be distributed with vaccines in April 2021. This will allow us to vaccinate the subsequent detachments. For the period June to December 630 soldiers will be deployed abroad. All soldiers, regardless of their place of residence, will be entitled to the same vaccine approved by the European Union as the Belgian population. Ideally, vaccination will take place before departure abroad. The location of vaccination will depend on the type of vaccine available and its characteristics in terms of storage or transport arrangements. No vaccination requirements have yet been imposed by our allies. However, the Defence Staff has already issued guidelines for vaccination by an allied partner or guest nation of Belgian staff abroad. The administered vaccine should be approved by the European Medicines Agency. Vaccination is not mandatory, but if administered it must be complete and recorded. Where this would involve costs for foreign staff, reimbursement is provided for. Any military that is foreseen to be operationally deployed abroad will be quarantined 14 days prior to departure in an accommodation provided by Defense, medically screened and tested. The objective is to minimise the risk of covid export and internal contamination in the surgical theatre. Since repatriation, no other positive covid-19 cases have been detected in the Maradi camp. With regard to other positive cases covid on mission, I confirm that the ONN detachment in Niamey also has eight positive cases. These persons will be evacuated on 27 January 2021. To date, and for all of our detachments, there is no indication of the need for mass repatriation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u6	Madam Secretary, thank you for the comprehensive answer. You have provided a lot of figures and explanations of the procedures. You've answered all my questions. My questions were largely informative, but they were also asked out of concern for the safety of our soldiers operating abroad, in order to guarantee our security. As far as the Flemish interest is concerned, in the field of military assistance, their security must be paramount in order not to compromise operational commitments. You explained the quarantine procedures and the conduct of pre-departure and post-departure tests. As far as vaccination is concerned, I note that at the moment there is no desire to apply a different procedure for military personnel than for ordinary citizens. I would like to take a more specific look at what our foreign partners are doing in this area and see whether, following what they are putting in front of us, we are aligning our method with theirs. I think it is important that we fight with equal weapons in all foreign theatres where we face international partners in the same field. I think it is advisable to go into that more closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. It goes without saying that this situation is difficult to manage, both in terms of health logistics, geopolitical, operational, etc. In short, it's extremely complicated and I'm very happy to hear that apparently you have the situation in hand. With regard to vaccination, I must admit that I also plead for consultation with our allies if possible. All our military personnel are in attendance with other military personnel from other nations. It is an opportunity to have a more coherent view. I would have wished to extend my wishes for recovery to the affected personnel. I hear they're getting better today and I'm glad. I hope they'll be on their feet soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u8	In the same way, Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for all this information and also congratulate our Department of Defence on the coordination and responsiveness it has had to deal with this bad news for our military. Of course, I wish them all a good recovery. It seems essential to me during the missions in which Belgium takes part with other nations to give priority – where possible – to harmonious coordination within the various corporations abroad in relation to the management of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u9	Madam Secretary, I have not been given a ruling on the negative opinion of the medical component. After all, I did not hear you confirm that there was a negative opinion, although we have information that this was indeed available for the operation. Furthermore, a request would be made to the Minister of Health to vaccinate a number of people who are abroad. I didn't get an answer to that either. I understand that the intention is to inoculate a priority group of 1,800 military, perhaps all military abroad. You mentioned June, and I assume the vaccination will start. But why do we have to wait so long? Can't that happen sooner? As far as the evacuation of positive cases is concerned, I understand that all our soldiers who are tested positively, including those with very slight symptoms, are being evacuated, contrary to the French strategy. I'm not sure that's the best thing for the operationality of our foreign mission. If we can guarantee that our soldiers will be cared for in medically safe conditions, they could be reusable in the short term. Maybe we should take another critical look at whether any military that is tested positively should be effectively repatriated. We certainly have questions about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u10	Madam Minister, the most important point, of course, is that the military are doing well. It is also, of course, not the Minister of Defence, who will completely overturn the vaccination strategy. We must continue to argue for this across the party boundaries of majority and opposition, that is our job. Steps have already been taken to prepare the future and it seems that this is not easy at the moment. I can make a point of this; it is certainly a good thing that you are making preparations. We also need to look at how our partners in the EU and NATO are tackling vaccination. We can possibly organise vaccination on the spot together, because if we can do this together, we will be stronger. As the President said, perhaps we should call into question the practice of removing a complete detachment because of some positive cases. In Niger it was apparently medically justified to bring a number of people back quickly. Well, then, of course, it's necessary. But corona exists in different degrees, we have already learned that. Is it necessary to bring back the whole detachment, including the non-positives and the light positives? All this needs to be evaluated more closely, I believe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u11	Madam Minister, with this crisis at European level, perhaps a Europe of health has begun. Health covered subjects covered by each country independently. When it comes to defence and, in particular, European defence, the need for mutualisation is felt. The medical components are, in general, the smallest in national defences, whereas in the end, it is there that collaborations and cooperation could be intensified to provide rapid and lasting responses to the problems that arise sometimes in operation and sometimes in some of our countries. "In every crisis, woe is good," said the adage! It would be good if we could emerge from this pandemic at the level of national defences through better cooperation and mutualization, particularly at the medical level, to deal with the problem of recruiting doctors and nurses in each of the armies. This health aspect is an opportunity to begin a more effective Europe of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u12	The first questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u13	Madam Minister, you announced a new strategic committee and explained it to this committee two weeks ago. The newly constituted Strategic Committee must address various challenges that Defence is facing, in fact the broad future of our Defence, with all its aspects, I suspect. I do not know whether priorities will be set in the Strategic Committee. I assume that the rapidly changing geopolitics are part of it, or at least I hope so, because there is a great deal to be said for identifying things in this area too and linking the necessary resources and, above all, the necessary strategy. I have seen that you have consulted with the Chinese Ambassador on our bilateral cooperation in the field of defence. There is also a question on this subject from me today. Perhaps, as part of your response to the new Strategic Committee, you can already indicate what the future plans are for the military. There is, of course, much to be said on the geopolitical, economic and health front, but in the military field we have not been able to hear very much about this in this committee, nor has your policy statement. That is why I would ask you for more information within the framework of the Strategic Committee. It has been particularly painful to establish, I suspect, that colleagues share this feeling with me, that a member of your Strategic Committee, Mr Jonathan Holslag, still recognised as a China expert on the political scene, was completely unaware of any bilateral cooperation in the field of defence. At least, he didn't seem to know if I could believe the media. That is strange because he was just admitted to the Strategic Committee in order, I suspect, to make his contribution to the rapidly changing geopolitics. Madam Secretary, when was the new Strategic Committee set up? Who's a part of it right now? We have read this in the media, but I would also like to see it included in the committee's report. How did the presentation and selection take place? What procedure was followed? How and by whom will the objectives be aligned and how will the evaluation or assessment be carried out with the objectives set out? In your policy paper, you indicated that you want to communicate transparently with Parliament and that you want to open up communication. How will you inform Parliament about this and how will the most important decisions be part of a parliamentary debate? That does not seem to me to be insignificant, since it is about the future of defence, the policy area that all the members of the committee are committed to. What budget is foreseen for the functioning of the Strategic Committee? What does the set timeline for work look like? You spoke last week about the preparation of a first report by the Strategic Committee by the end of May and would then follow its further development. Can you explain at this time already the set timeline for the coming years? Finally, I am not speaking for myself only when I say that we have been in very close contact with the Transition Team over the past year, in particular with a number of people who have been very active in this and who have also proposed certain chalk lines in a transparent dialogue with the committee members and have asked for feedback from all parties represented in the committee. Has the work of the Transition team been completed? What are the results or conclusions, if any? How does the composition and tasks of the Strategic Committee relate to the work and tasks of the Transition Team in recent years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u14	Mr President, I will be very brief. I was surprised that this item is still on the agenda. You, the committee secretariat and the minister were so kind to discuss this two weeks ago, even if our questions had arrived after the deadline, for which I am grateful. I therefore refer, for the rest, to my questions from the last time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u15	Minister, I am glad to have a topical debate on this subject because the process is already underway. I come directly to my questions. When was this decision made? By whom was it taken? How and by whom were the members of this committee selected? Most members appear to be from or associated with the same backgrounds (Royal Military School and Egmont). Why are there no members of civil society and/or associations in this committee? How will this be involved? What is the Committee's mandate and method of work? By whom have the objectives been set? How will they be assessed? Will meetings be organized and with whom? Will Parliament be involved in this upstream work and how? Will the Committee's report be presented to Parliament and in what form will the amended Strategic Vision be presented or presented only?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u16	Minister, many questions have been asked. For my part, I would insist that Parliament be involved from the outset in the work of this committee. This seems extremely important to me because a strategic vision is an eminently political exercise. I have also written to the chairman of our committee to discuss with him, in the order of business, how we should be organized in this direction. A similar exercise is being carried out at European level through the exercise on the "strategic compass". What is the relationship between the work carried out at Belgian level and the work carried out at European level? There are parliamentary work, including the work that has begun on Defence Europe. There is the work of strategic vision that you have started through this strategic committee and there is European work, not to mention the work on the Strategic Vision that has just been accomplished at NATO level. I think you have received a report on this at the end of December. It will be a matter of properly articulating all of this work. How do you envisage this essential articulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u17	Madam Minister, I would like to refer to the explanatory statement you gave two weeks ago on the composition of the strategic committee. You also said that a report was being prepared by the end of May and that a parliamentary debate could be held in June. I have two specific questions. First of all, how did you get to the selection of that group? Which sectors certainly needed to be involved? Which one isn't? How did you come to this composition of the committee? Secondly, what is the Committee's actual mission? What policy questions did they get to work on? Is the starting point the current strategic vision? Is it clearly stated that it is the starting point and that it must be updated? From what angle does the government say, and do you say, Madam Secretary, what the strategic committee should work on in the coming weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u18	Mr President, this is a topical debate in which I wish to speak. The Minister has taken an initiative – what she is entitled to do – as a continuation of a broad policy approach that we have discussed at length, very little on strategy and much on detail. That being said, there is a working method. The Executive has decided to set up a working group, which will report in a timely manner. We can always say that we would like onetel or another within this group, but a decision has been taken and a report will be made in June. Many questions will probably be asked on the subject by then. I assume that things were not done with a pluck but that the working groups were formed with knowledge of the matter. Its members are specialists. I do not agree with all these experts but they are here, let them work and avoid wasting time thinking about the composition of this group. We see what this gives with the Congo commission: it becomes a real dragster, and no result will be observed for several months or years. If we want to give maximum chances of success, let the experts work on the basis of the mission letter they probably received. They will present a synthesis, after which we will have the opportunity to question them and refine their observations. In any event, there is an urgent need today, bearing in mind that a reflection is under way with the Portuguese on European defence and that the revision of NATO's strategic plan has been postponed until US President Joe Biden sees what he is going to do. Let's try, for our part, to be ready and to know what we want to do rather than to procrastinate on the composition of the group, which, in my opinion, will not advance the "schmilblick".
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u19	Mr Flahaut, it is, of course, the right of a Member of Parliament to ask questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u20	Mr President, the strategic vision for Defence of 29 June 2016 is the result of an analysis carried out in 2014 and 2015. Although the broad lines of this document are still up to date, some trends have in the meantime strengthened or shaken the world thoroughly. An updated version is therefore required. In order to complete this updated analysis of the strategic environment until 2030 and 2040, I decided at the end of last year to instruct Professor Tanguy Struye de Swielande and Colonel Staffbrevetholder Eric Kalajzic to set up, direct and coordinate a strategic committee. The Committee is composed of 10 renowned academics, who are active in the wider field of security, with respect for language and gender parity. The Committee consists of: Sven Biscop, Ghent University, specialist in CFSP and CSDP and EU security instruments; David Criekemans, University of Antwerp, specialist in global and local geopolitics; Cind Du Bois, Royal Military School, specialist in defence economics and economic security issues; Joseph Henrotin, Centre d'Analysis et de Prévision et des Risques Internationaux in Paris, specialist in technology and strategy; Jonathan Holslag, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, specialist in Asia and European issues; Alexander Mattelaer, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, specialist in international relations, the EU and the Belgian Defence Policy; Delphine Resteigne, Royal Military School, sociologist and specialist in leadership issues and the introduction of change; Dorothée Vandamme, UCLouvain and UMONS, specialist in terrorism; Nina Willen, Université Libre de Bruxelles, specialist in the Great Lakes region, Central Africa and Caroline Zickgraf, ULg, specialist in migration after climate change. I have appointed them on the proposal of the two coordinators of the committee. They were chosen for the diversity of their fields of expertise and profiles, as well as for their complementarity. They are also drawn from a wide range of our academic and higher education institutions. Starting in February, the group will meet in plenary format every two weeks on a specific topic related to the area of expertise of each committee member. The other weeks will be used for the hearing of experts outside the group on specific areas. This first work of the committee focuses primarily on updating the safe environment. The aim is to identify and update new security trends since 2014 and 2015 by 2030. This work is more of an academic exercise, which is why civil society is not involved at this stage. However, the exercise will have an educational and public awareness interest in the role and importance of Defence. A report is expected by 31 May 2021. This will serve as a basis for political discussions in Parliament during June and at the latest during the first two weeks of July 2021. On the basis of the document submitted, I intend, as a first step, to update the Strategic Vision for 2030 and to amend the military programming law in September 2021. In this regard, the Defence Staff, whose technical expertise is indispensable, is also involved. Second, the goal is to broaden the strategic horizon to 2040 in order to anticipate crises, conflicts and technology through which we will have at least one step ahead of potential rivals and opponents. This exploratory and proactive function will form the basis of work for subsequent exercises. This is the committee's second project, focusing on prospective analysis for 2030-2040. To this end, a final report is scheduled for December. The method used could lead to a recurring exercise, set at the beginning of each new legislature. The lessons we can draw from this will be documented for reasons of transparency towards Members of all political groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u21	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Mr President, I would first like to address Mr Flahaut, who obviously, like us, has the right to intervene in a topical debate and to say what he wants to say. However, his interventions are becoming more and more bizarre and actually inappropriate in this. Mr Flahaut, you say that it is the right of the Minister to set up a new strategic committee. No one in this committee has denied that, just to be clear. We are asking questions, as we are supposed to do as Members of Parliament. You're falling a little out of character. You're a bit of a shadow minister. That doesn't suit you at all. I also think it is a little inappropriate to the Minister, but this aside. Madam Minister, I think we have gained more insight into the design of the new strategic committee. It's very wide-ranging. That is in itself very positive. Nor do I doubt the expertise of the members of the committee. You have already said that the results of the tasks of the transition team will be included in the work of the new strategic committee. That is, of course, a good thing. I hope that there will be some kind of convergence between the two works. The fact that it flows from one to the other would bring to light the work of the transition team, which has worked very well and in detail. About the experts themselves, I have already said, that is very broad. It focuses on the geopolitical situation. That's perfectly right. We can certainly go along with that. I would nevertheless ask you to show the necessary transparency, both for the work of the committee and for the work of the transition team. I hope that this will be made clear in the explanatory statement. Mr President, we look forward to the debates in June.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u22	Mr Flahaut, I shall first address the questioners. Then you will be given the floor for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u23	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Evaluation is always good. Five years after the delivery of the strategic vision, you will evaluate. Five years is an eternity in this matter. So I think this is very positive. The government had already confirmed this plan and the investment in it. You confirm a quick delivery in May. That's very fast. That's a good thing. We must ensure that this is not a doctoral thesis or a book but a very concrete text. The timeline makes me suspect that this will be the case. It is very positive that you are involving Parliament in this. I look forward to the debates on the basis of your text in June.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. It is indeed time to update this vision and I thank you for initiating this work. I confess – once it is not customary – that I remain a little on my hunger regarding the composition of this group. It seems to me that the future of Defence calls for a broader democratic debate and that consultation between experts – all or almost all of them from the same background – is a little limited. We always get to open up panels to diversity and innovative ideas. I hear that at this stage they will not be associated and I hope that this can be done, for example, during the specific meetings you have mentioned. I would also like to welcome the exact parity between women and men in this committee. As this committee, composed of thirteen men and four women as effective members, shows, it is urgent to rebalance the word on this issue which, without much surprise, seems to echo, in my opinion, a very genrative or caricatureal distribution of interests. It also applies to me. I say it by the way because I'm aware of it. In any event, minister, my group is very much looking forward to participating in this reflection on the future of our army. Do not hesitate to involve Parliament as soon as possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u25	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, thank you for your briefing. I'll make a few remarks. As far as the experts are concerned, I obviously do not have to discuss the quality of the expertise of these experts from the academic world. I regret, however, that, contrary to what has been done, for example, at European level through the work of the "strategic compass" and contrary to what is being done at NATO level, there are no military personnel in the military sense of active and responsible for operations at this time, nor diplomats. Academics obviously have a very interesting point of view. That said, they are not involved in an operational way today in security and defence matters. They can therefore sometimes have an opinion which is of course extremely interesting but which can be removed from the reality of the field and possibly from the feasibility of certain ambitions. I would have found it interesting to actually have other profiles among these experts. As far as timing is concerned, I see that you are doing something like Minister Vandeput, that is, there is first an analysis of the safe environment and then a prospective analysis. I would like Parliament to be able, from the outset, to meet perhaps not all the experts but at least the two coordinators in order to have an exchange of views on what seems important both to Parliament and to the experts and to have a clear understanding of the work on which this committee is going to deal. That seems important to me. Unlike Mr Flahaut in his somewhat surprising speech, I have an ambition for Parliament's work. I believe that Parliament should be prevented from intervening only in the second place. We know that at that time, the reports are already tied. We know that Parliament is being listened to, is being heard, but the reports do not change much at that time. I think it would be interesting to have an exchange of views from the outset. It doesn't take much time. It's not a waste of time. On the contrary, it is a time saving, which allows Parliament to give its views on the work that this committee could do, and in any case also hear the experts on the work that they are going to do. That seems very important to me. I did not hear you – but I have to admit that it was not in the written text of my question, but since it is a topical debate, it was important to come back to it – on the articulation between this work and the work on the strategic compass, which is taking place at the same time. What will be the relationship between your experts, these experts and the other Belgian experts working in this strategic compass? We know that there are a number of people who are currently very actively involved in this work on the strategic compass. Similarly, I have not heard the connection with the work done by NATO, where there are also ten experts working, for the time being. They just submitted a first report. It seems to me very important that there is indeed a link between these various works. Perhaps we can remember later; or perhaps we can have answers to these questions during the interview with the experts who lead this strategic committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u26	Mr Dallemagne, I can also tell you that next week's work is on the agenda. I will also put your question there. Mr Flahaut, I give you the floor for a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u27	Mr President, I have been a Member of Parliament for a number of years and I have also been a Minister for some time. I'm not jealous of anyone. As a parliamentarian, I am free from words and thoughts and, like all members here, who sometimes make statements that I do not like – which is their strictest right – I ask that my strictest right be respected to express myself on the basis of a certain experience. Like I said, I'm not jealous of anyone. I am critical and I have been critical of someone of the majority in the Congo Committee, and I have just discussed it. I appreciate the realism of Mr Dallemagne, who knows that there are many reports that are useless and resolutions that populate the attic of this institution. We often waste a lot of time in discussions, because we do not necessarily go to the essentials and there is a lack of pragmatism and realism. In this case, Mrs Ponthier, you will excuse me, I listen with great interest to everyone's questions, and I did so when I was presiding over this House. I never have written notes, I never read or annone a text, I don't ask a question for the replies that are written. I react according to what I hear and I think that is the real parliamentary work. It's not asking questions, waiting for the answer, then replying. No! It also means having a broad debate. If this is not done, there is no point in holding parliamentary committees. If one cannot say what one thinks and react according to what one has heard, and defend one another and criticize the other, it is no longer parliamentary! It's being a button press and that's something I don't want to be. I have never been, and I will never be, as long as I remain in this assembly. J'ai this!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u28	It is therefore also important to be able to ask questions from the same parliamentary reflex, Mr Flahaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u29	Madam Secretary, the consequences of the second covid wave are felt not only in the foreign missions, but also and especially in the interior. Defence has very adequate, as we are used to, contact with terrain and provides assistance where it is possible and necessary. On a regular basis, the committee receives the reports through the Cabinet, for which it is grateful. There are a lot of details in it, but at the moment it might be good to update a number of things. That is why I would like to ask you a number of questions about the impact on the operation of the Defense Department. Defense offers support, medical capabilities and equipment. Are there any reserves or capabilities held for Defence itself, should the military units themselves be affected by the virus? Does COVID-19 affect the availability of the units to the extent that a significant decrease is observed? Is there a noticeable increase in absenteeism due to sick leave at the moment? Was it there in the last few months? It also called for the maximum use of telework, as in the rest of society. Can you give us some figures on that? If we are committed to more telework, how do the trainings take place during this period? Is there also provision for online training? How exactly do they go? Are there currently employees of Defense or its parastaals being placed in technical unemployment? If so, how many and in which departments? Are certain activities within the Defense Department being postponed? I am thinking of training or commitment in any area. If so, which one? I come to my second question. Can you indicate in general what assistance Defence will provide or have provided? I will not ask you the details of this because we receive a detailed overview, but can you indicate whether additional allowances or measures will be provided for the staff engaged in the fight against the covid crisis? What are the fees, what are the materials and what are the equipment? Where is the aid mainly used? How is coordination and cooperation between the different levels of policy in this country, in particular the federal level and the regional and local levels? I think it's important to point that out anyway. In particular, local levels are now becoming increasingly responsive in order to take action themselves and to deal with, inter alia, vaccination. How does the Defense Department assist local authorities in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u30	Mr President, I am a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and this is the week when the committees meet in plenary session, so I share virtually between Strasbourg and Brussels. But I still wanted to be there to ask my questions, including the questions that were attached. I thank you for giving me the floor when I initially announced that certain issues would be transformed in writing. I wanted to ask the minister about the fact that, as soon as she took office, she asked the Defence for a proactive study to examine how Defence could assist our nation's health services — the nation as a whole — in a very serious situation of health crisis that we have not known for decades, both in terms of its scale and duration. There was talk of providing medical and paramedical personnel, equipment, transportation, distribution and logistical capacity. I am going to change my question a bit because it was introduced in October and since then water has sank under the bridges. I now wanted to look back with the minister at how she had been able, through this proactive study and this capacity of the medical sector and the Defence Medical Component - which had been diminished by previous governments and thus despite all these constraints of the past - to ensure that National Defence and its Medical Component would once again surpass themselves. But I'm not just talking about its medical component, because we know that engineers can play an important role in the disinfection of ambulances in terms of disinfection and chemical or nuclear expertise. Second, with respect to the current situation, could you identify any potential blockages in the mobilization of National Defence's medical capability? And that, knowing that there has indeed been a chronic under-investment in materials and human resources in our medical components. I am talking more broadly about the lack of ambition of the 2030 Strategic Vision of one of your predecessors, Minister Vandeput. What do you intend to do or what have you done to remedy these deficiencies? Finally, I would like to check whether National Defence is well involved in the Belgian vaccination strategy and how the consultations with the federated entities have been carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u31	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would also like to ask you about the deployment of the army in the province of Luxembourg to fight covid-19. The figures speak for themselves: the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, a neighbour of the province of Luxembourg, is very attractive for Belgian nurses. Every year, the province of Luxembourg undergoes massive departures. For the year 2019, the intercommunal Vivalia, which is the single public intercommunal in hospital matters in the said province, has thus recorded 50 departures to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, of which 42 for the site of Arlon alone. In 2020, 25 departures were recorded. In relative figures, in 2019, 57% of the resignations recorded by Vivalia resulted from a departure to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. In 2020, 62.5% was reported. Unfortunately, this phenomenon has intensified over the past four years. The reasons for these departures are the financial conditions in the broad sense, with better social protection and a much higher net salary for nurses in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. These better financial conditions largely compensate for the disadvantages associated, in particular, with travel or sometimes with the spoken language. At this time of crisis, it is more necessary than ever to overcome this structural shortage in the province of Luxembourg. Madam Minister, you have recently stated, and I congratulate you, that a detailed analysis of the military's available capabilities has been carried out. This analysis relates to medical personnel, paramedical personnel, and non-specialized personnel who can come to logistical support. Can you equip us with the human resources of the army made available in the province of Luxembourg during this period of health crisis to combat covid-19? Could military assistance be considered to address the nursing staff's flight to the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u32	Mr President, Minister, at the moment there is a great deal of work going on throughout the country in setting up the various vaccination centres by local authorities, the aid zones in Flanders and the first-line zones. That's a huge logistics operation, the biggest since World War II. This operation not only involves a lot of logistical work, but also requires a lot of staff. The vaccination centres will be open seven days at seven, with very wide opening hours. They must be provided with staff, both medical and other functions such as administrative staff, stewards, catering. Over the past few months, the DOD has regularly stepped up in the fight against corona. Earlier, you announced that all the people and resources that are not needed for military missions can be deployed against the coronavirus. This has already been implemented in practice with the transport of medical equipment or patients. At the end of December, you announced and the Council of Ministers decided that certain resources available from Defence could also be used as part of the major vaccination campaign. Are you considering using additional staff or logistical resources in the vaccination centres? If so, how can such staff and resources be deployed? Could you please explain, if that is the case, whether it is also spread regionally and whether a local government can also use Defence? How is that supposed to happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u33	Given the large number of questions I would like to deal with them in two parts around the question of what the current situation is with the Defense Department and what support Defence currently provides to the nation. As for the current medical situation at the Department of Defense, after the number of absentees from sick leave had visibly increased during first lockdown, that number fell again in the run-up to the lockdown today. At present, there are 1,641 positive cases in total. There is also currently 1 military hospital and 4 soldiers have died. For the impact on the operations and exercises I would like to refer you to the topical debate. With regard to the general policy on covid-19, as during the first wave, the Defence assists the general population and the services concerned to the maximum extent possible in support of civilian means. Contrary to what happened during the first wave, Defence continues its recruitment and training activities. Defense is trying to save the crew and the resources to the maximum and to preserve them. There is also an attempt to avoid, where possible, physical contact between persons. In order not to jeopardise the performance of the tasks and tasks, three priorities were set: the execution of operational tasks and assistance to the nation, whether or not in the fight against COVID-19, preparation for operations and recruitment, selection and training, with priority being given to basic military formation. In that logic it was therefore decided to suspend all training activities until 15 February. Only trainings in the context of preparation for operations or associated with statutory courses are still taking place. Defence has an online training platform, to which every military access has access. Maintaining the physical condition can be done on an individual basis and with respect for federal and regional rules. Defense follows the federal government's guidelines and applies them rigorously. Existing precautionary measures are always recalled and stressed. Defence's priority is the well-being of staff and their families and the ongoing operational commitments and essential tasks. There are currently three ways of working remotely: satellite work, home working without the Internet and teleworking with the Internet. Over the last few months, 6,000 employees have used this method of working. There are no employees of Defence, neither civilian personnel nor military personnel, placed in technical unemployment. The permanent cell is now active again. As far as support for the nation is concerned, I would like to remind the members of the committee that, on a weekly basis, I will provide them with a clear overview of the various support activities that Defence is currently carrying out in this context. You will receive it today, but I would like to mention the main aspects. In the meantime, around 87 rest homes were supported on demand. Since 5 October, two liaison officers have been seconded to the FPS Public Health in the framework of PECC and three representatives have been seconded to the Task Force's vaccination strategy since the end of December. In addition, Defence actively participates in the consultation structures such as the Federal Coordination Committee and the Hospital and Transport Surge Capacity All burn patients from Belgium are admitted to the military hospital and all patients in need of hyperbaric care are treated by the hyperbaric center of the military hospital. The military hospital provides its ambulances for the covid patients and the second MUG to the Brussels region. For patient transport between hospitals in Belgium, 16 ambulances with ambulances and a helicopter have been used. Fifteen sessions of Train the trainer have already been given on hygiene measures and the use of personal protective equipment to the staff of the residential care centres. There was also an active support of three decontamination teams for the disinfection of ambulances active in the Service for Tyre Control and Urgent Medical Assistance of the Brussels-Capital Region, two of which formed a decontamination line which was exclusively manned by military personnel. Reception and administrative support services are provided to health care institutions and, where requested, there is material and infrastructure support. For example, eleven hospital ventilation equipment in Brussels and Hasselt were made available. The Defence cooperated actively in building additional beds for covid-infected patients in the hospitals of Seraing, Charleroi and Ixelles. With regard to support in the province of Luxembourg, we have provided support in its five hospitals for the reception of patients and visitors. In addition, non-medical support is provided to the "No Concern" nursing home in Bastogne, and medical support is provided to three other nursing homes in Bastogne. Defence is permanently willing to deploy people and resources that are not needed on military missions, the training of new recruits or the day-to-day operation for necessary support to the Nation. The Military Hospital already serves as a logistical hub for the distribution of vaccines and will later be used as a vaccination centre. The medical component also keeps ten mobile vaccination teams ready to strengthen the civilian teams. Furthermore, the infrastructure was made available in three quarters as a vaccination centre. Cooling and logistics containers for offices and toilets may also be made available. The organisation of a vaccination centre is a regional responsibility. Mayors can pass on their needs to the governors who in turn can transfer them to the region. If the region cannot provide a solution, the demand will be forwarded to the federal level, where it can be further oriented towards Defence. Within Defence there is a parallel and simultaneous treatment, starting from the military provincial commanders to the Operations and Training Staff Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u34	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer to almost all the questions. You mentioned that concrete training facilities are currently being suspended, with a number of exceptions. You will also be informed that online training facilities are also provided. It seems to me that the evaluation of this is likely to be less efficient than usual. This also indirectly has an impact on the very important preparation for our international commitments. It is important to maintain a healthy balance between the two areas. Aid to the Nation is, of course, crucial at the moment, and if Defence can make a contribution to this, it is advisable. They are there when they are needed. In this respect, therefore, we commend our military personnel. Following your policy letter, you have heard from our group that aid to the Nation, however valuable at the moment, must be made clear, not a priority and not really a core task of our defence. The core tasks are other things: the security of our territory, support for foreign operations, and so on. It is very important to ensure that the balance is properly monitored at the moment. The aid to the Nation must not be at the expense of the preparation of our soldiers to carry out the tasks which they should actually carry out as their first priority. As far as your reply on cooperation with local authorities is concerned, I do not know how it will work in practice. You say that local authorities can turn to the regional authorities to see what is possible. I believe that there must be very specific directives and very targeted communication so that local authorities know what they can expect, where they can go, and where they can count on in terms of cooperation with Defence. I believe that communication here is particularly important. As you know, local authorities are in fact not in touch with the decisions that are sometimes taken over their heads at the moment. I believe that communication in this area is very crucial.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u35	Mr. Chair, I thank the Minister for her comprehensive response, which clearly indicates her objective of making the medical component a fully-fledged and respectable component, with the means to be provided, both human and material. It therefore aims to amplify its ambition. It's brave of him. This is new and I thank her, on behalf of the Socialist Group, for working in this direction. Indeed, in such an important and long crisis, - it is not over - while local authorities, and those of federated entities, are sometimes deprived, there is only the Defence to which we can turn, next to relief zones or civil protection. When I hear sometimes some of my colleagues relativizing the aspect and concept of aid to the Nation during the budget debates or those related to your general policy note, I think you did well to have it re-registered. I would like, through you, to thank the members of this component who are doing a remarkable job.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u36	I agree with my Socialist fellow Member, Mr Lacroix, about the assistance that has been provided in recent months. In addition to my question, which was more focused on the issue of the shortage of nurses, I would like to thank you, Minister, for the assistance that has been provided since you were in charge of defence. The assistance provided by this sector, at the level of my province, has been positively received by the Luxembourg hospital infrastructure which is under the dome of the intercommunal Vivalia. I am reassured about the sustainability of these aids. I will pass the message on to my local colleagues. On the issue of nursing shortages, a structural issue that clearly exceeds your skills and the scope of your work as Minister of Defence, I note the initiatives you have taken to support hospitals or our nursing homes in the current fight against covid-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u37	Mr President, Minister, it goes without saying that the first task of defence is operational, the protection of the territory. It is also good to hear and see on the ground that Defence can help wherever necessary, as has happened in the residential care centres and now with regard to the roll-out of vaccination. I am thinking of the ten mobile vaccination teams you spoke of and the provision of quarters to roll out a vaccination centre. That was also well communicated on the premises. Local authorities and the relevant quarters have been able to discuss this very well. I should also be open to assisting the local authorities if necessary. They must do so by the appropriate means, through the governor and the Länder. That's good to know. It would also be a good idea for local authorities to know that this is a possibility. Perhaps there is a task there for the governors to bring that to the attention of the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u38	Madam Secretary, my question dates back a while ago. In the meantime, we have heard through a press release and through your reply just now that there are currently 1,641 positive cases, one of which was hospitalized and four of which unfortunately died. So you have already answered my first question about the number of infections, but you can always supplement it. For the rest of the questions, please refer to the questions submitted in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u39	That seems to me to be a good suggestion to get some speed in the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u40	Mr President, I would like to ask you to note that I am turning my question No 55011432C into a written question. Indeed, I will have to reconnect with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. This question dates back to several months. It was mainly concerned with the contamination of 75 Belgian soldiers with coronavirus during the NATO exercise in Bergen-Hohne, Germany. I'll update it and abbreviate it. Minister, I would like to know what measures are being taken after the return of the military in order to draw the conclusions? What are the recommendations to avoid the risk of contamination of our members during these major exercises? What is done before they leave and what is done after they return? I wanted to know more about the nature of the exercise. Are all military exercises so urgent as to be held, in a bilateral context or in a multilateral context? It seems to me, in any case today, that one of the country's major concerns is the internal situation of this country. Depending on the study and information available to you, is it necessary or not to suspend these military exercise missions abroad? Yes or no? Is it useful or not relevant?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u41	Defence personnel have been asked since the beginning of the pandemic to report an infection with the coronavirus or quarantine via their local occupational health cell. Defence, like any employer, has no knowledge of the exact diagnosis of an absentee for health reasons. After all, this is covered by the medical secret. At present, there are around 1,641 positive cases in total. To date, a dozen soldiers have been hospitalized. Four soldiers have died. Defence collects the figures per occupational health cell, which supports multiple units and quarters at different regional locations. As in the rest of Belgium, the first infections at Defense have been recorded since the start of the pandemic. Defense follows the federal government's guidelines and applies them rigorously. From DG Health & Well-being, a wide range of health, safety and prevention advice has been provided to the top of the Defence and the hierarchical line. For example, the Internal Service for Prevention and Protection on the Work Frameworks has set up customized for the Defence Department. The precautions are continuously adapted to the evolution of the pandemic and immediately communicated and recalled by the Defence Summit via various channels. Where a positive covid case is detected, repatriation shall be organised without delay independently of the state of health. In the event of deterioration in the state of health, this avoids a situation in which the resources for on-the-spot treatment are not appropriate. Domestic and foreign contracts are not currently affected by covid contamination. An internal directive provides that those who are to be quarantined may continue to work via telework if the function permits. For the functions in which telework is possible, attempts were made to provide as many employees as possible with a laptop. Employees who only have a desktop have been exceptionally allowed to bring their computer home so that they can do telework. As with missions, a secondment that departs for an exercise exceeding 48 hours is quarantined; its personnel are tested two days before deployment in order to avoid an export of the virus to the country concerned or transmission within the secondment. A risk analysis is carried out and the results are translated into recommendations and detailed orders. The purpose of the exercise in Bergen-Hohne was to train staff in a training camp offering opportunities that do not exist in Belgium. This type of training prepares participants for an operational commitment and is therefore considered essential. The situation of these military personnel is monitored by the Medical Component, and lessons will be learned. DG Health and Welfare, responsible for epidemiological surveillance, analyses data on covid-19 from tracing organized by the Medical Component and uses the results to better target prevention measures within Defence. The Defence would like, with the means at its disposal, to assist as much as possible the population in general and, in particular, the services concerned by the covid-19. CHOD has taken the necessary steps to ensure Defence's core missions and tasks while freeing up as many capabilities as possible to support the fight against covid-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u42	Madam Minister, your answer was comprehensive; I thank you for that and have no further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u43	Mr President, for the first time I agree with Mrs Ponthier. Minister, thank you for your precise and particularly illuminating answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u44	Even though the event that gave rise to the question dates from a while ago, the question has, unfortunately, not become less topical. After the cowardly decapitation of a teacher, President Macron expressed himself strongly about Islam radicalism and defended the right to freedom of expression at all times. Turkish President Erdogan reacted very bitefully and even aggressively, in which he attributed the French President, among other things, a lack of mental health. Whether that's entirely right or not, I'll leave it in the middle. In any case, President Erdogan's statement has given rise to international reactions. For example, in a number of Islamic countries, the criticism of Macron's attitude has grown and calls, among other things, for a boycott of French products. On the other hand, the EU condemns the aggressive and excessive statements made by Erdogan and, following the umpteenth provocation and unilateral actions in the Mediterranean Sea in a row, it really believes that Turkey is choosing to isolate itself. In the case of NATO, too, there is growing concern about the attitude of an ally, as Turkey is one. Erdogan's military escapades speak for themselves. NATO has therefore called for an early end to the many existing conflicts, but it also indicates that relations with Turkey are becoming increasingly difficult. How do you evaluate these ongoing provocations by a NATO Member State such as Turkey? What will be our attitude at the next NATO summit in February or the next NATO Parliament meeting for which we are still a host country? Hopefully you will take the floor for our guests. Do you share the view that, despite the fact that Turkey has a strategically interesting position, the provocative attitude of the President is becoming less and less sustainable in the long term and so NATO membership will also be under pressure and undermined?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u45	The Belgian attitude in NATO is determined by the government. On the basis of Belgian interests, Belgium is always looking for a consensus in the alliance, seeking a balance between a firm attitude and respect for a NATO ally. At the NATO Council of Ministers at the end of October, the Member States worked for a de-escalation of the situation in the eastern Mediterranean. The Belgian Government and Defence define their position on the basis of concrete dossiers rather than on the basis of public statements. For this reason, the DOD does not wish to respond to President Trump's ruling mentioned in the question. NATO is a platform where allies meet on a daily basis and where differences of opinion can be discussed and then addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u46	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am also a member of the NATO Parliament, where the subject is also regularly discussed. The chairman will be able to confirm that. With regard to Turkey, I find the attitude of our government, both in your policy letter and in the policy letter of your colleague, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, very vague and I think that it does not take a position on the destabilising, stubborn and aggressive actions of President Erdogan, who is therefore considered to be an ally in the eastern Mediterranean, in Libya, in Northern Syria and in the southern Caucasus. Turkey is playing in various conflicts where NATO is not interfering, cavalier seul. As far as the Flemish interest is concerned, the NATO membership of that country must at least be called into question or criticised by NATO. This is happening at the moment in a very easy way through the conflict talks with the President on the one hand and with the Secretary-General of NATO on the other. I believe that the government should adopt a strong stance in this respect, of course in conjunction with the EU, because Turkey's attitude is becoming increasingly aggressive and assertive. I believe that neither NATO nor our country will benefit from this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u47	Mr President, Mrs Ponthier, first of all I would like to say that the formation organisms of Defence are not isolated from the rest of society. The students go home on weekends, where they may become infected, and then they bring that contamination to the workplace. There is also no mention of a single outbreak of COVID-19 in the CSOO. In fact, both pupils and managers have been infected in the school. The first cases date from the end of August. An exact moment when multiple people were infected; cannot be identified. It is therefore not possible to give figures for a single outbreak, as the situation is evolving on a daily basis. In the period from 11 September to 21 October, a total of 16 persons were tested positively in the KSOO, according to the figures of 27 October of the National Movement Coordination Centre. An infection shall be established when a pupil or staff member reports that he or she has tested positive. Each DOD member of staff is required to report a positive test to the NMCC, the occupational physician and his unit assistant. When a person has tested positive, the person is immediately quarantined and the NMCC is responsible for detecting the high-risk contacts within the Defense Department. Every time a student shows symptoms, the student's work bubble will immediately be separated from all other work bubbles in advance of the test result. An infection could be reduced to two pupils from different work bubbles who carpool together. In addition, there are other infections where the source could not be clearly identified as they had occurred in the private sphere. Distance learning is organised wherever possible. However, this is not possible for all lessons, for example for shooting lessons, whereas this is an essential part of the basic military education. As a result, the lessons to be organised through distance learning, the lessons that can be given safely, provided that preventive measures are complied with, and the lessons which, despite the preventive measures, cannot be organised safely. The latter shall be deleted. In the case of students who are to be quarantined, the lessons to be followed by distance learning and the lessons to be taken subsequently shall be examined on a case-by-case basis. The existing directives are already extremely strict. For example, the application of general hygiene rules, such as the use of mouth masks, hand hygiene and the installation of partitioning walls, is strongly promoted. The pupils are also divided into work bubbles which are maintained throughout the daily activities of the pupils. In addition to the mutual social distancing within these work bubbles, the aim is also to distancing between the work bubbles, also through relocation, whereby part of the training is transferred to, for example, Leopoldsburg. For example, the number of students in Saffronberg is limited. All activities for which the measures cannot be applied adequately and for which the risk of contamination is too high have been deleted. At present, the aim of the CSOO is to ensure that existing measures are respected as effectively as possible. This is monitored both during and outside duty hours. Moreover, since 22 October, non-statutory training has been suspended in all educational institutions in order to reduce the number of pupils in schools. These formations may in some cases continue through distance learning. The very strict compliance with these rules should prevent the spread of the coronavirus. We therefore continue to work on sensitisation in order to comply with the directives, not only in schools, but also in the private sphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u48	Madam Secretary, thank you for the detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u49	Madam Minister, at the meeting of the Committee for Defence of 18 July 2018, the then Minister of Defence Vandeput reported that, in addition to sensitisation, there was a new directive on the use of smart devices, both domestic and foreign, on the pipeline. This had to do with the fact that apps like Strava reveal sensitive information about military personnel and where they are at the time. By the way, I also found reports about this in the archive from Minister De Crem of 2012. There would have been a colonel talking about Russia's follow-up to these cases, in order to follow up Belgian and European military activities in general. Yesterday, a video was shared by an anonymous military Twitter account with footage of French soldiers in Africa. On this basis, it was easy to show exactly where they were. I have a number of questions about that. Madam Secretary, is the new directive mentioned ready in 2018? Can you explain that? Can Parliament get this directive? Do you think that this directive and its prevention and awareness are sufficient, or will you take additional measures? Can you explain the best practices of our own Defense and our partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u50	At the end of 2018, the Ministry of Defence drew up two internal documents relating to the use of portable electronic devices (PED). A first document was about the use of mobile electronic devices within the Defense Department, prepared by the General Intelligence and Security Service. A second document dealt with the use of PEDs in operations and exercises and was prepared by the Operations and Training Department. The first contains the general guidelines. The second specifies the measures to be taken by type of deployment and the associated cyber threat. Both documents supplement the existing Directives and clarify the conditions under which PEDs may be used. If required, additional practical recommendations can be made in function, for example, of specific countries. Generic recommendations are also available on the internal cyber pages of Defence. They can be obtained on request. The general precautions laid down in these documents shall also apply to works at a distance. Prevention and awareness are sufficient, but mistakes can never be excluded. The guidelines are available for each member of the Defense Department. Every year, every soldier has to follow an online briefing on cybersecurity awareness. The risk associated with the use of PED is continuously evaluated by ADIV. In addition to the cyberawareness briefing, which is repeated for each operation, additional guidelines can be given. If foreign directives also apply to Belgian military, the most restrictive directive will be applied. The document on the use of PED in operations and exercises is based on the UK guidelines. For example, colour codes linked to the threat analysis are used, coupled with the measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u51	Mr President, Madam Minister, if it is possible, I would like to receive those documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u52	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Lacroix's 5501432C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u53	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, the question is a follow-up to the debate we had on the policy note. I allowed myself to repeat this question, since the answers obtained were inconclusive from my point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u54	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, the majority of old-generation military equipment is being replaced by less polluting and energy efficient equipment. In its procurement procedures, Defence imposes, where operational conditions permit, polluting emission requirements that contribute to the reduction of military vehicle consumption. In the future, part of the fleet of military vehicles will be equipped with hybrid technologies, if the technical-operational and budgetary conditions permit. This will help improve Defence's energy efficiency. In addition, Defence applies Circular 307sixies of the SPF BOSA of 21 April 2017 which was published on 11 May 2017 for the renewal of its commercial vehicle fleet. Similarly, the construction of future military quarters and the renovation of existing infrastructure will be carried out according to the latest energy performance standards. The Navy is currently engaged in the renewal of its fleet of ships. These will comply with the highest emission standards, including MARPOL Tier 3 and European regulations. For this purpose, new mine hunters will be equipped with an exhaust gas treatment facility to reduce NOx emissions. The new frigates will be equipped with electric diesel propulsion that will significantly reduce fuel consumption compared to current frigates. The Navy has also taken various measures for ships currently in service. The two-stroke engines of small craft are replaced with less polluting four-stroke engines. The hull of the patrol boats will be adapted in 2023-2024 by a new system limiting energy consumption. The gas turbines of today's mine hunters are replaced by diesel engines that consume significantly less fuel. The Air component is undergoing transformation and replaces its flying fleet in all air areas. This opportunity makes it possible to do better than before in terms of energy efficiency. With the new infrastructure projects following the introduction of new weapons systems in the various units of the Air component, a huge step will be taken towards reducing CO2 emissions, such as the use of green electricity, high insulation, maximum use of rainwater, etc. The aircraft ground equipment acquired for the F-35 and MQ9B is in its vast majority hybrid type. This means that there are two power options: electricity, connected to the infrastructure, and clean diesel energy. With the arrival of the new infrastructure, this equipment will operate almost entirely with electricity on our bases, so almost no CO2 emissions will be generated. Similarly, the new F-35 and MQ9B complex will be voluntarily built in a compact manner with the intention of promoting smooth mobility, walking, small electric vehicles, bicycles, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u55	Thank you very much. I did well to ask that question, minister, because I received a lot of details. I note that not only are there already very concrete projects with the Navy and the Air Force, but there are also forecasts for the infrastructure. I will have a question later about the future of our barracks. This is perhaps an opportunity to slip one or two complementary questions. I want to say thank you too. I think, indeed, that these are good decisions. One small remark: I was the former Chairman of the Dieselgate Commission. I have always been one of those who consider that, compared to other fuels, diesel is the least polluting in terms of CO2 emissions. I note that the Minister and Defence share that same philosophy!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u56	Colleagues, as I have had the opportunity to repeat on many occasions, the central issue for Defence in this Parliament will be the recapitalization of personnel. To meet this challenge, not only must we recruit, but we must also be able to retain the women and men who make up the Defence. I have been able to set out various avenues in committee and to announce measures to achieve this. Providing a competitive wage compared to that offered by other public safety employers is obviously crucial in this regard. To this end, in accordance with the content of the Resolution on Defence Human Resources Policy, which was widely endorsed by this Parliament on 9 July 2020, it was decided to have an independent defence audit conducted with respect to the wage competition of the federal security trades. This is more precisely the request 18 of the resolution to the government. Moreover, the use of an external partner to carry out this audit was also a wish of the defence union organizations, given differences of opinion between them and the staff. Indeed, the agreement of 10 June 2020 between the social partners and the Head of Defence on the salary improvement of the military also called for the use of an external partner to carry out this analysis of the salaries of the various employers of public security. A joint working group of the Defence Staff and Trade Unions, accompanied by this external partner, has been established. The full results of this comparative study with the police will be provided no later than the end of the first quarter of 2021. On the basis of these results and consultations with trade union organisations, I will entrust the Defence Staff with formulating proposals for salary enhancement as soon as possible. I can assure you that these will be very close deadlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u57	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. By my main question, I was looking at what motivated the use of an external audit by the headquarters. I am not surprised to hear you talk about the differences of opinion between the unions and the staff. This is a problem that needs to be addressed in the context of career development and the attractiveness of the function, which continues to be of importance in terms of remuneration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u58	Madam Minister, at the beginning of December, we heard from the press about your intention to build a new barracks in Charleroi. For many years now, the question has arisen of the restructuring of these barracks in our country. Many have been threatened with closure. Others, for example, had to close for various reasons. What are the motivations for building a new barracks? What about strategy? I reasonably wonder about Charleroi's choice. In terms of budgeting and the resources allocated to this project, where will these resources be sought? Is this part of the national investment and recovery plan? Is this type of project part of this type of funding? In terms of periodicity, how will this project be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u59	Madam Minister, on 25 November last you announced that two military barracks would be built in the coming years, one in Hainaut and the other in West Flanders. In this respect, the city of Charleroi would hold the rope and the investments would be of the order of 150 to 200 million euros for an occupation of nearly 1,500 soldiers. If the feasibility study still needs to be carried out, you have confirmed that this two barracks project was in the federal government's recovery plan and should be submitted to the European Commission. It is clear that the prospect of a military barracks can be an important element of attractiveness in terms of employment, moreover in a city such as Charleroi which still unfortunately has a high unemployment rate but also in economic terms. Therefore, Madam Minister, has Charleroi been established as one of the two new military barracks since then? If so, what is the timetable in terms of study and procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u60	Mr President, first of all I would like to clarify to Mrs Jadin. You will certainly not have read that I announced Charleroi in the press because I was questioned. I was also surprised that this question could have been asked. As a result, I made it clear that studies were under way but that the choice of locality was not stopped. Mrs Jadin, Mr De Smet, the new neighbourhoods should come to the areas with a low military presence, i.e. the provinces of East Flanders and Hainaut. No site selection has been decided at this stage. The drafts will be presented to the Council of Ministers for agreement. A non-exhaustive list of criteria has been established in addition to the availability of sufficiently extensive land for future military facilities. The concept also provides for the sharing or sharing of facilities with non-Defence partners. In terms of personnel, the concept must ensure a variety of military jobs and a significant recruitment potential. The possibility of nomadic careers from one or more local or regional employers to Defence and vice versa and the sharing of labour with partners are part of the concept. The proximity of a secondary school offering the Defence and Security option, centres of expertise and excellence, and vocational and/or continuing training centres is also an important element of the concept. In the field of research and development, the possibility of partnerships with academia and the business world is being considered. Finally, with regard to mobility, mention should be made of the proximity of public transport, the soft mobility and accessibility of heavy cargo. The necessary investment amounts have not yet been defined at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u61	Madam Minister, thank you and just make a little remark. I told you about what I read in the press. What she did with what you said was not mine. Anyway, I wanted to know a little bit more. Thank you for clarifying this in your answer. As you have said, many questions remain open and we will have to address them in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u62	Mr President, I have no further comment. I thank the minister for her very clear answer. We will also follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u63	The current arrangements of the Defence Attachés were approved by the Minister of Defence at the end of 2018 and since last year there have been 22 Defence Attachés and 5 Belgian Security Attachés deployed around the world, to which should be added the two military advisers to the UN and the OSC. Each Defence Attaché covers an accreditation area comprising one or more countries and possibly an international organization. In total, some 90 accreditations are provided by this network of defence attachés. This year, a new study will be carried out to adapt the system to geostrategic needs. Given the importance of this network for Belgian defence diplomacy and the monitoring of these operations, a reduction is currently not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u65	You're asking me about recruiting more than 10,000 new recruits. I refer to my policy note, in which I detail many aspects of recruiting additional staff. In order to reach the specific profiles mentioned, special attention is paid to vacant technical posts. For technical non-commissioned officers, a preparatory course for the entrance examination is set up in cooperation with FOREM and VDAB. Initially, the budget for the annual recruitment of 2,300 military personnel was planned. The new targets require 200 additional annual recruitments. The budgetary means to do so will be made available, as well as for other initiatives aimed at changing the workforce curve, despite the 0.89% savings that we must achieve in the context of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u66	Minister, these questions I asked you in the debate on the general policy note for which I had not received an answer, which is why I have allowed myself to repeat it. I needed answers that I had now received and it wasn't to bother you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u67	It doesn't bother me at all, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u68	Madam Minister, this is a question that will not surprise you since I am a Member of Parliament for the riding of Liège and regularly enquires about the future of our barracks, whether it is Elsenborn's or MRIEP – the physical education centre of Eupen – or the 12/13 Li (Light Infantry Battalion) of Spa. Regularly, over the past 15 years, these settlements have been threatened before their usefulness, particularly in terms of recruitment, is known. Having nearby recruitment barracks for our new recruits can be an important attraction. Having the opportunity to continue training the soldiers who will train themselves in the physical education of our new recruits seems essential to me because it is a very specific training. For this reason, I would like to see the establishment of Eupen, Elsenborn and Spa be able to have a future and to be the subject of new investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u69	The Defence currently does not intend to change the location of the MRIEP or its missions. Recently the agreement with the city of Eupen on the shared use of Schönefeld sports grounds for at least 20 years, including the transfer of ownership of the track of athletics and the sports hall of the King Baudouin Stadium, has made it possible to optimise the operation of the MRIEP facilities. At the level of these infrastructure, Defence is planning maintenance and renovation work to improve the Institute's energy footprint. In 2021, a reduction of five posts is planned in the MRIEP following the outsourcing of the quarter guard decided by the previous government. As far as the Elsenborn barracks are concerned, neither does the Defence intend to change its location nor its missions. As part of the 2016 Strategic Vision, logistical support for the Elsenborn camp was outsourced. The future of the camp is assured and it will continue to play a vital role in the training of our military. In terms of infrastructure, Defence has also planned work to improve the energy footprint and reduce water consumption. A reduction of 27 posts at the Elsenborn barracks is planned in 2021 following the outsourcing of the neighbourhood guard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u70	That is very good news, Mr. President and Madam Minister. I really think so because you may not know it, but I have been fighting very firmly for years to be sustainable. In the city of Eupen, of which I am also a Member, we have ensured that we can contribute and do our best to ensure the future establishment of IRMP in Eupen by doing something quite original: by creating close partnerships and trying to open up areas to the general public if possible, in order to improve the infrastructure and link these military institutions to our population. That is very good news, Minister, and I welcome it. Whether it is for Eupen or Elsenborn, I greet him and thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u71	Madam Minister, last Friday, protesters of the No Nukes collective took action in the cabinet of Minister Wilmès following the entry into force of the UN Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. With great indignation, they and we took note of the Belgian rejection of the UN resolution calling for accession to the UN ban treaty on Monday 7 December. However, a majority of parties from the government, including your party, were fervently in favour of joining the prohibition treaty. The government declaration states in black and white that the government will undertake to examine how the prohibition treaty can give new impetus to nuclear disarmament. In practice, we see that we are simply voting against it. For you and your colleagues, there is a growing danger of an uncomfortable spread: on the one hand, there is the coalition agreement and on the other hand, what is happening in practice. We can always join the treaty, Madam Minister, and there is a very strong support for it. According to a recent poll conducted by Yougov at the end of November last year on behalf of ICAN and the Belgian Coalition against Nuclear Weapons, 77% of the population are in favour of a nuclear weapons ban. A majority of Belgians, 57%, are in favour of the withdrawal of nuclear weapons from Small Brogel, while in May 2019 it was still 49 percent, and a majority of 51% are also against the equipment of the new F35s with nuclear capacity, while only 26% are in favour of it. On top of that, you are violating the Non-Proliferation Treaty by refusing to accede to the UN Prohibition Treaty. That treaty encourages all member countries to continue to work on nuclear disarmament by negotiating a new treaty. At the same time, it is a bit of a dent in our country's credibility in the context of global nuclear disarmament. Then there is the fact that we are violating the Non-Proliferation Treaty because we have nuclear weapons here on our territory. Yet the new government, like you, continues to persevere in the new nuclear weapons position. As early as October, you had confirmed the purchase of the 34 F35 fighter aircraft, indicating that they would be delivered with nuclear capacity. You obviously did not question that option in any way. Your party's 2019 election programme, the PS, called for a ban on weapons of mass destruction. It was stated that Belgium had to take the path of multilateralism in order to achieve global nuclear disarmament. How can it be that your policy as Minister of Defence is contrary to those principles, because you validate the presence of nuclear weapons in Kleine Brogel, you accept the nuclear capacity of the F-35s and you refuse, together with your colleagues in the government, to accede to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons? How do you reconcile this policy with the current democratic support of the people for our country's accession to the prohibition treaty?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u72	Mr President, honourable Member, the government agreement provides for Belgium to commit itself to nuclear disarmament by taking the path of multilateralism. For Belgium, the non-proliferation treaty remains the cornerstone of the global nuclear non-proliferation regime. The Government Agreement also provides for our country to play a proactive role at the NPT Review Conference in August 2021. Foreign Affairs adopted a Belgian position on this issue on 7 December 2020, at the occasion of the latest United Nations General Assembly. This is a matter for the Foreign Minister, Mrs Wilmès. In this statement, it is recalled that Belgium will check with its NATO European allies on how to strengthen the multilateral non-proliferation framework. In addition, special attention will be given to disarmament control mechanisms and nuclear risk reduction. As for the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, I will take up the elements developed in that same statement after the vote on the resolution on the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons of 7 December last at the United Nations. This treaty could provide a new impetus for multilateral nuclear disarmament. However, it is not the right tool to achieve our goals of undertaking global, reciprocal and progressive efforts. That is why Belgium has maintained a vote against this resolution, consistent with its principles and in line with NATO allies. Our country notes that no nuclear-weapon country has acceded to it, nor has its NATO allies. It is clear that genuine disarmament efforts must include nuclear-weapon States. In addition, the Treaty does not contain a mechanism for implementing or verifying the commitments of participating States. In the absence of a tangible and verifiable agreement, Belgium remains fully committed to NATO's deterrence policy. As far as the F-35s are concerned, I have already been able to explain the government's position. I do not want to go into that again. Finally, as far as your second question is concerned, even if a majority of the Belgian population is in favour of a world without nuclear weapons, which is also a wish of the government, then at the same time the Belgians want a guarantee of peace and security. In this regard, Belgian Defence has a central role to play, both in national territory and in operations abroad, through civil society support missions, cybersecurity, intelligence gathering and humanitarian missions - among many other tasks. It is also within this logic that Defence is part of the definition of the national security strategy and will commit itself to its implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u73	Madam Minister, you have raised many elements and arguments to motivate Belgium's position. However, many of the arguments you put forward are not satisfactory and are simply not correct. If we look at the fact of the treaty, it appears that the prohibition treaty is complementary to the Non-Proliferation Treaty; even more so, it strengthens the Non-Proliferation Treaty. You argue that all nuclear states should be parties to the treaty in order to achieve disarmament, but if most nuclear states that are members of the Non-Proliferation Treaty do not work on disarmament and themselves violate the Non-Proliferation Treaty, it seems logical to me that, on the basis of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, we should take steps towards further nuclear disarmament, to which that prohibition treaty actually requests. You also say that there are no verification mechanisms. That's not right either. However, safe guards have been included in the prohibition treaty to ensure that states that become members follow a path of disarmament and that controls can also be carried out. You also see some contradiction with the fact that we must remain a member of NATO and that some sort of nuclear deterrent doctrine applies. President: Mr De Vuyst, you have to finish, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u74	Madam Secretary, we will keep coming back to it. Your answer is certainly not enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u75	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to refer to the written submission with No. 55011619C. This question was, of course, asked in unsuspecting times at the beginning of December 2020 when it was only known that it would take place. Meanwhile, it is known that DAF Trucks has more or less won the plea. As a result, the topicality of this question is questionable. A competitor of DAF Trucks has meanwhile gone to the Council of State to file a claim for suspension of the award decision. So I dare to ask myself out loud whether you have any more information on that. Can you give us an update? What impact does this have on the file and its timeline? Does this affect our operationality in the broad sense of the word?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u76	Madam Minister, I agree with the various questions put by Mr Creyelman. I can also imagine that some elements of your reply could be better dealt with in the committee chaired by Mr Creyelman than here. My question is whether you can give any explanation in this procurement procedure and the alleged allocation to manufacturer DAF Trucks? What's the return? It is striking that the Dutch manufacturer DAF Trucks wins, while a similar tender with the Dutch army led to a collaboration with other manufacturers. That is a striking observation. Can you give a little more explanation, especially since we hear that DAF Trucks has no off-the-shelf product. That's still to be developed. What will the delivery rate therefore look like? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u77	Mr President, Mr Creyelman, this public contract is being carried out on the basis of a negotiated procedure with publication. This means that there are two separate phases, a selection phase and an award phase. During the selection phase eight candidates were detained, seven of whom submitted a tender. Daimler Trucks has decided not to submit a quote. The final offers of this contract were received on 25 September 2020. Six candidates submitted a regular tender which met all the necessary technical and logistical requirements. One candidate was not prevented because of formal and administrative irregularities. All candidates received the reasoned award decision on 9 December 2020. On 23 December 2020, one of the tenderers lodged an appeal to the Council of State for the suspension of the award decision in a matter of urgency. That procedure is now under way. The full timeline will not be available until the procedure is completed. Pending the examination by the Council of State and for the proper conduct of the procedure, no further information shall be provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u78	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I understand that you cannot go into more detail on certain aspects that need to be addressed in the Committee on Army Procurement. I will not fail to question you together with the members of that committee about any problems in the timeline that might arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u79	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I also understand that you cannot make public statements on this because there is a procedure going on. I understand from Mr Creyelman's reply that the chairman will take an initiative to get an explanation in the Committee on Army Procurement. I'm looking forward to that. I hope to receive a more detailed answer to my questions there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u80	Mr President, I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u81	The military airport of Ursel is 192 hectares and comprises 24 hectares of runways, 2 hectares of aircraft platforms and 2 hectares of paved roads and parkings. It still serves as a reserve airfield. Every year there are several military exercises and activities that fit in the ready-to-use training. The site will also be used as a training ground for the unit 3 Para barracks in Gavere. In addition, there are also a dozen police services and schools that use our road infrastructure to carry out driving tests and train driving a few days over the year. Almost weekly work takes place, such as the maintenance of airportbermen that fit in with the nature management set out together with the Agency for Nature and Forest, the ANB. Since 2019 the slopes are also regularly used for the transport and storage of plagges for works in progress by the ANB in the nearby forest. As regards pure recreational use, from Friday to Sunday, the runways are made permanently available to two flight clubs and are assigned to three cycling associations for training during working days outside the breeding season. Finally, two mass events are held every year on the site. The slopes are therefore used quite intensively. The accompanying pressure on nature means that it is no longer appropriate to allow additional recreational activities. The activities for 2021 are in line with previous years. There is no doubt that military use will increase, which is likely to restrict recreational use. DOD has already allocated two parking zones to the ANB with a state-of-the-art licence. A third permit for the construction of an additional parking is in preparation. All these zones are located on the military domain, but outside the fence of the actual airport. Defence has no intention of abandoning the military function of the domain and there is therefore no possibility of building a permanent parking space within the cord closure of the military domain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u82	Madam Minister, thank you for the enlightening answer. I understand that this is an area with a lot of exploitation, where many players are active. If the occupation of the site by Defense leaves room for better protection of the natural environment there, then we must not hesitate. It remains a search for balance to combine military exploitation with nature conservation and recreation. In order to achieve an optimal balance, cooperation will have to be established with local authorities, the Nature Agency and Forest and Nature Point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u83	The file of a possible move from Koksijde to Ostend will be submitted to the Council of Ministers for decision this year. If the move were to continue, the search and rescue mission could be carried out at the end of 2024 from Ostend, where some 130 support staff, such as divers, technicians and operators, will be employed alongside the pilots. The municipality of Koksijde has indicated that it is interested in expropriating the site, after a possible closure of the base. Therefore, the Federal Procurement Committee of the FPS Finance was asked to make an estimate of the selling price.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u84	Thank you for your full reply, Madam Secretary. I note that the SAR will move from 2024, if it is decided to sell the site, that the pilots and support staff will move to Ostend and that the municipality will expropriate the site. Those were my three questions. Thank you, therefore, for your full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u85	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I have another question. I know you're not obliged to answer that. Who will negotiate the price that will eventually be paid for the sale of the basis of Koksijde? Is that the Secretary of Defense or the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u86	We, but in collaboration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u87	We come to Mr Steven Creyelman's question on outsourcing as part of HR policy, question No. 55011804C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u88	Madam Secretary, I would like to appeal to your Lenience, as they say so beautifully in English. I have also asked a question in the Committee on Equal Opportunities and that is where the replies begin, for which I am expected. Would it be possible to give me the answer to this question in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u89	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u90	Madam Minister, there is already a lot of thought in the Netherlands about the naming of the new naval ships that will be delivered together with the Belgian vessels. It's about the mine hunters and the frigates. I am following the Dutch debates on this and I have the impression that some people want to give a political signal with the name. The climate, women's rights and so on are mentioned here. Others choose a historical name. We in Belgium must be careful not to haunt the delusion of the day, because the Godetia is around 50 years old and our mine hunters are also several decades old. It is very important to honour the symbolism and the process of naming. We must avoid chasing the delusions of the day and fashion grills. I have the following questions. Has the naming process started yet? How'd that go in the past? Are you open to having a public debate on this in Parliament, but also in public opinion? This could lead to more interest in the Navy and in the expansion of the Defense Department. In what way are peter and meter cities selected? The President will, of course, be able to provide the necessary information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u91	Mr Pillen, the process of naming has not yet officially started. However, the Navy component already collects all the elements to be able to submit a proposal to the government for future mine-fighting ships. This will take as much account as possible of the Dutch process with the aim of underlining the binational nature of the project. For the replacement of the frigates it is too early to start the process. In the past, a proposal of names by the Navy component was submitted to the government by Castor and Pollux patrol vessels. The proposal was accepted and implemented. A public debate may be possible, even a competition, as was the case for the research vessel Belgica, insofar as this does not delay the process. The meter and peter cities are selected on the basis of their applications, past and political balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u92	Thank you, Madam Secretary. If you do that together with the Netherlands, the ship will certainly not be called Leopold II, because it had plans to invade the Netherlands, I recently read extensively in the excellent biography of Johan Op de Beeck. So that's a name we can delete. Perhaps there will be other reasons, Mr De Vriendt. I would also like to thank you for your information on the peter and meter cities, Madam Secretary. I will talk to our chairman about this, because I believe that Bruges can be an ideal candidate for this. After Saint Nicholas, maybe Bruges. It would be nice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u93	Minister, I would like to ask you about the digitalization of Defence communications, and more specifically about the jobsdays put in place by the Earth component as part of the major effort to recruit Defence under this legislature. To save time, minister, I refer to the written text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u94	Mr Bayet, the results of the online Jobdays are very positive. Live shows were followed by several thousand people, especially young people. By organizing the Jobdays via modern means of communication, Defence was also able to reach young people who, in another situation, probably would not have crossed the door of a military quarter. In addition, live TV videos are still available on Facebook and the number of spectators has doubled in the first 48 hours. The Earth and Air components as well as the Navy provide for the organization of virtual Jobdays. Besides this, the information centres also participate in virtual events organised by external partners (high schools, colleges, universities, etc.).). From 12 to 23 January of this year, the SID-in will take place on a virtual basis. As far as SIEP is concerned, the organisation plans the exhibition in a virtual way by the end of April 2021. Information centres and components will also participate in SID-in and SIEP. Since it is currently impossible to participate physically in the fairs, all our activities take place in a virtual manner until further notice. Communication takes place via the Defence Mil.be website, but also via social media. Presently, the virtual organization of trade shows is a good alternative to physical jobsdays, but experience has taught us that this cannot in any case be considered as a replacement in its own right. As a result, physical Jobdays remain essential in order to make the military job fully known to our young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u95	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is clear that in view of the importance of recruitment under this legislature, you and your services can only be congratulated on the organization of these virtual Jobdays. I hope that this will continue because it will be necessary to engage our future military. In any case, I wish you a good continuation in this process.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u96	Mr President, my questions are as follows: 55012434C and 55012436C may be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u97	Minister, the language allowance was introduced under the previous legislature. It was your predecessor, Minister Reynders, who had worked on it. I thought it was a very good idea. But at the time, I told him that I would have found the idea even better if our German-speaking recruits had been taken into account when granting this bonus. Why? Because as a native German speaker, they already have to pass at some point many tests either in French or Dutch. They still have some added value for missions abroad. Their knowledge of German is highly appreciated. So my question is very simple. Can you still review this premium policy, including for our German-speaking agents? I think that would be a big welcome. I refer to those who have given me this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u98	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, you will be happy because I fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u99	I am indeed already happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u100	From the study carried out by the Directorate-General for Human Resources requested in the previous legislature, it appears that the concept of bilingualism with its different levels of knowledge is applicable only for the knowledge of Dutch and French, which are the two linguistic regimes to which the military belong, as provided for in the Act of 30 July 1938 concerning the use of languages in the army. However, the allocation of an allowance for knowledge of German which was part of the above-mentioned study requires a more in-depth study. A further study was therefore requested from the General Staff regarding the possibility of granting defence personnel a bonus for knowledge of German.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u101	That's great. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic352x.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, we have noted a number of questions which the authors are asking for to be converted into a written question and we have been given the commitment of the Minister to respond very quickly.
