ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u1	Madam President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u2	Mrs Samyn, poverty experts are indeed discussing basic income, but, as you know, this is not included in the government agreement. Within the PPS Social Integration, I know that there are no studies on the subject and there are no plans to carry out one. The financial consequences of such a measure that is not planned have not been calculated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u3	Madam Minister, as poverty is only difficult to reduce, it is important to look at the problem from a different angle and to change it. Unfortunately, during the discussion of the government statement, we had to establish that the pen is being held by the ultraliberals. At least that's what our party thinks. The unreasonable RSZ favor regime has not been completely abolished. Something should be done about top wages, at least as far as the RSZ contribution is concerned. The deductibility of the second house also remained unchanged, while many people could not even afford a first home. Madam Secretary, I am counting on an extra effort. With all these small measures, we will not be able to alleviate the worst need and help the people in need.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u4	Madam President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u5	Mrs Samyn, of course I share citizens' concerns. It's in my DNA. That's why I went into politics. However, it is also important for me to look back at the basic philosophy. Workers build up social security through their work. At the time when a social risk occurs, social security provides much-needed protection. Old age is such a social risk, as is sickness or unemployment. The basic principle in social security is that social benefits cannot be combined. Whoever works has a paycheck. If you are ill, you have a sickness benefit. If you are looking for work, you will receive unemployment benefit. If you're retired, you have a pension. In this way, a citizen is protected at any time of his or her life. That's our social security. There are exceptions where working income can be combined or not limited with a social benefit. This must not result in social benefits being combined. I am in favour of good wages and worthy social benefits. As a politician, I find it unfair that someone should be dependent on another income on the social benefit they receive. Anyone who continues to work after retirement also, of course, builds up pension rights. An employee is not obliged to take up his pension. Since 2015, it is possible to retain the pension in addition to a professional income, if the employee concerned has 45 career years or is 65-pluser. This is already a very broad exception to the basic principles of labour income and replacement income. Mrs Samyn, I have included all the figures in my answer. Can I give you the numbers? Then I won't read them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u6	Will these figures be added to the report?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u7	Sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u8	Madam Minister, the basic pension or the first pillar is, as you know, an unreasonablely low level for many people. Many are forced to continue working because they won't make it to the end of the month. There are also people who still want to take up a pension, but at the same time want to keep working to have a bonus. They are now punished twice. This inequality needs to be addressed. I heard last weekend that you are working on the pension reform which I hope will be put on the agenda this year. We hope that the concerns of a large number of pensioners who continue to work will be taken into account, but will still be subject to tax or who become ill and are not entitled to benefits. I understand the principle of not combining two benefits, but we still need to think about that. We are talking about a larger group than we can imagine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u9	For information, we cannot add the table to the report, but we will send it to you through the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u10	Madam President, Mrs Samyn, the regulation of energy prices and the reduction of the impact of price increases on the consumer invoice are the powers of the Minister for Energy. I therefore invite you to ask this question to my colleague, Mrs van der Straeten. As Minister responsible for the fight against poverty, I am aware that we must intervene before the situation becomes dramatic. In order to mitigate the effects of rising energy costs, I, together with the Minister for Energy, advocated the indexation of the Gas and Electricity Fund for 2022 and a refinancing of EUR 16 million. In the 20 years that the fund exists, it has never been refinanced before. This additional budget will make it possible to significantly reduce citizens' energy bills with payment problems. In addition to these support measures, I would like to consider, together with my colleague responsible for energy, better coordination and strengthening of the various social energy funds, for example by progressively harmonising the provisions to ensure the same social rights for all consumers, regardless of which energy source they use.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u11	Madam Secretary, I will also put the question to your colleague. You may not blame us, but we believe that the measures taken in this area are no more and no less than patch-up work. Moreover, the extension of the social tariff will create an additional problem. Many who are in energy poverty will now be in the system for more than a year, so they cannot cancel their own energy contract that was put on hold. Hopefully, after next year's winter, the mad rise in energy prices will come to an end. In principle, therefore, it is advisable to look for the best provider, but these people will not be able to do so and will remain in a number of cases with an expensive contract. So I fear the financial impact on the poorest and most vulnerable group in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u12	Madam President, Madam Minister, the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities once again raised the alarm about the extremely long waiting times for DG HAN to deal with files of people applying for benefits because they have disabilities. This is certainly not a new problem. It already existed during the previous legislature. I understand that this cannot be resolved overnight, but what we are seeing now is disturbing. The waiting times are getting longer and longer. In August, there were as many as 15,083 files whose treatment period was longer than 6 months and more than a third of people have been waiting for a much-needed benefit for more than a year. The National High Council for Persons with Disability warned that the measures taken by the government, such as the abolition of the price of love, would lead to even longer waiting times. The file managers at DG HAN are doing their best, but cannot support the number of applications. When I asked you questions about this in February 2021, you indicated that you were working with DG HAN on an action plan to improve the handling of the dossiers. You re-recorded that in your Disability Action Plan. Has the action plan to improve services been put in place? What are the most important chalk lines? Within what timeframe can the delay be dealt with? A few months ago, you also spoke of a new data processing tool TRIA for the processing of the files, which would be implemented from spring 2022. That's good news, but won't that cause any additional delays? Do you envisage accompanying measures to facilitate the transition to the new computer system? What other structural measures will you take to ensure that waiting times are reduced? People with disabilities who apply are entitled to a reply within a reasonable period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u13	Madam President, Minister, the one-time question that I tabled following the press release of the National Council of Persons with Disabilities (CSNPH) is reflected in the substance of my colleagues' questions. Nevertheless, for some time, I believe that there are three important criteria for analysing the management of these files. First, there are the number of annual files processed, which is expected to represent approximately 120,000 files (new files and revisions combined). The second criterion is that of the inventory of files. In 2017, there was a significant backlog due to computer problems related to software and other changes. The stock for that year was 250,000 unprocessed files. How high is it today? The third criterion is the average duration of examination of the files, knowing that the charter of the social insured requires them to be processed within six months. Some would not be treated within that time frame. What is the average processing time for cases today? Two elements have since had to influence the length of the processing of cases, following the passing of certain laws. First, there is the 21- to 18-year change in income replacement and integration allowances, voted in 2020 and therefore applied for the first time this year. The second law, proposed by Mrs Lanjri if I am not mistaken, concerns the education of parents from the age of 17 for children receiving increased allowances. The processing of this type of material is likely to exceed the six-month time limit. Another question concerns workload: is it not too important? Is there enough staff? There is also the challenge of information technology. There is a backlog and litigation with the old computer system. We referred to this at length in the debate on the action plan for persons with disabilities. And finally, there are the issues of medical assessment and physician compensation. Can you shed some light on these points, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I know that the duration of the processing of cases brought to DG HAN is a matter of great concern, and that is quite legitimate. That is why I fought during this budgetary conclave to ensure that DG HAN has the necessary means to provide the service that people are legitimately entitled to expect. This administration faces a real need for staff. Mr. Delizée, you called him back. Of course, it was strengthened with regard to telephony in 2018, for example, but since then, following the sixth reform of the state, many agents, especially on the francophone side, have been transferred to the Walloon Region, and this continues. So there's a leak from the administrative officers. I can therefore only agree with the opinion of the administration that this situation is no longer tenable. That is why, during the drafting of the reform of my administration called EXCEL-HAN, we put a point of honour at the centre of the discussions. It was a budget of almost five million euros that was released during the conclave to implement this action plan by 2022. It is a multi-year action plan with a budget for 2023 and 2024 that will no longer be negotiated. This budget will strengthen front-line staff working in the regional branches, thereby assisting in the faster preparation of files and processing of applications. This budget will also make it possible to implement multidisciplinary evaluation through the engagement of paramedical professionals. In addition, there are plans to increase physician salaries to align with those employed in other federal institutions. There is indeed social dumping between federal institutions, which is still very complicated. The problem is that the least well paid are doctors in DG HAN. So we don't have any more. This is a response to the shortage of doctors we are experiencing today, which de facto results in delays in the processing of applications. As you can see, a large construction site awaits us for this year 2022 and for the rest of the mandate. However, I would like to clarify the figures. The number of AI and RRA files with a processing time of more than six months is 8,081 in this month of October. The number of 15,083 is the total of all pending applications including parking cards and recognitions of disability. As of September 2021, the average turnaround time for ARR and AI applications was 4.8 months. Since 2018, the average has been 7.7 months in 2018, 6.3 months in 2019, 5 months in 2020 and 4.5 months in 2021, respectively. So, despite the difficulties, this administration is improving. While there is no doubt that progress has been made, DG HAN has seen in recent months an increase in the length of treatment due to recent legislative changes, as you mentioned by Mr Delizée. This is not only about the price of love but also, and above all, the lowering of the age limit from 21 to 18, which came into effect retroactively in the light of the Constitutional Court's ruling. We worked together on this. In the cited number of pending cases, it should be noted that all persons receiving an increased family allowance who could potentially benefit from the legislative amendment were systematically and automatically contacted. These contacts by the administration also count as open file, even if the person does not respond. The file will not be closed until the administration has taken a negative decision, for example because there is no response. Only then will it no longer be counted. So this is disrupting the statistics. Each file submitted, even if incomplete, shall be counted. This, too, gives a distorted picture of the period of processing of files. The figures must therefore be interpreted with caution. However, DG HAN continues to pay attention to this problem. The service has identified two reasons as an explanation for the long duration of the processing of applications. The first reason is the time needed to complete the application file, such as completing the registration forms, medical forms for assessing disability and providing additional administrative information. The second cause has to do with the increasing shortage of doctors. As far as TRIA is concerned, as I said during the exchange of views on the federal disability plan, I am very close to its implementation. I immediately integrated in all the follow-up meetings the Higher Council for Persons with Disabilities, given the scale of the work. Since the two causes of the backlog of files have been identified, amendments will be proposed via the excellent program and budgets that have recently been approved and which you will soon have the opportunity to discuss.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u15	Madam Minister, it is unacceptable that DG HAN should respond late or not, leaving people in the dark. In some cases, services are really lacking. It is particularly important for this vulnerable group to have a good, sound service. Some people who have been waiting months for a revised or unrevised concession are really on the lips of the water. Based on poverty studies, we learn that having a disability increases the chance to get into poverty. We must ensure that the poverty rate does not go up in that group. I hope that services will improve a little. I understand you'll be working on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u16	Madam Secretary, the causes are known to us all. One of these causes, the acute shortage of doctors, will hopefully be resolved soon, as they will be properly compensated. Other reasons are the incompleteness of the files and the new legislation. The new legislation is a good thing anyway. I refer to your proposal, in particular the abolition of the price of love. I also mention my approved bill to examine files automatically, which serves to improve service provision. It is therefore appalling that it is still taking so long. You say that for more than 8,000 files the treatment is longer than usual. We must continue to work on this. I recognise that a good course has already been taken, because the average duration has fallen, but the individual dossiers continue to have to wait longer than six months, sometimes even a year. That needs to be remedied further so that people get what they deserve. I hope that you will also follow very closely the transition to the new system and that this will not lead to additional delays.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u17	I thank the minister for her answer. The figures make it possible to objectify the situation. This situation must be seen over a longer period because this law is 34 years old and has been amended many times over time. More and more services, controls and elements have been requested. Before that, it was a purely paper management. Finally, electronic exchanges and computerization had reduced the average processing time to four months. That's an average, for complete files of course. The computer bug that happened four years ago obviously made the delays go back. This was in addition to the departure of staff, linear and blind savings and the transfer of staff to networks. Everything came at the same time. So you tell us that the average processing time is around four months or between four and five months today. That's a good thing. With regard to the figures, the stock is 8,000 files, but with two new elements of the new legislation, which are now coming. You are announcing two good news; the first is that resources will be devoted to this administration in a multi-year plan. That is a good thing, and I stress it. Secondly, physicians' compensation has been the subject of debate on your plan alongside the medical assessment to which we will return. It's a good thing to pay them properly. I also believe that simplification of the law, which is also included in the plan, will facilitate the work of the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u18	I invite you all to watch the chronometer. I will also pay a little more attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u19	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I remember that, at our committee meeting on 22 September, you reminded us that in your department, the files of people with disabilities were constantly accumulating, while the staff were constantly decreasing. One of the key actions of the Federal Disability Action Plan 2021-2024 is precisely the development of a new DG Disability Action Plan to improve the provision of services to the population. I understand that you have a budget that will allow you to hire staff or revalue the staff in office. One of the objectives will therefore be to monitor the processing times of applications with a view to reducing their duration. And we hope, of course, that the resorption of the delay will be effective as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u20	Madam Minister, in a recent publication, the Court of Auditors is quite critical of the management of the Consolidated Pension Fund, the so-called GPF, the instrument by which pensions are paid for by appointed officials of local government. On the one hand, there is criticism of the unsustainable nature of the financing mechanism. In a context in which more and more local authorities understandably use contractual employment rather than statutory employment, this is not insignificant. On the other hand, there is also criticism of the way in which the Federal Pension Service (FPD), which is responsible for managing the GPF, deals with certain issues, such as the way in which the response contribution is calculated or the lack of control of certificates and rightholders. Finally, the Court of Auditors also points to a number of legislative gaps. Especially in Flanders there is a lot of promotion for mergers of municipalities, but then of course the funds have to be settled. Madam Secretary, my questions are as follows. Do you recognise the problems raised by the Court of Auditors? Are you working on a sustainable and affordable pension reform for local government officials? Will you also respect the irreversible evolution towards more contractual employment rather than statutory appointments? If so, what are the broad lines of the adjustments you will make? I'm very curious about that. You know I'm always a curious man. Are there any measures that you will take in the short term to improve the management of the FPD? Will you also resolve the legislative gaps raised by the Court of Auditors in the short term? I do not think that this will require a thorough pension reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u21	Mr Van der Donkt, I find it very strange that you are asking that question. The previous government, which you were a member of, took many measures that put pressure on the sustainability of pensions. For example, with the previous government, you have decided to charge a pension fund for the end-of-life insurance scheme for police personnel. You decided to punish the local authorities who did not have a supplementary pension, often because they did not have the resources, financially, while the challenges were already known back then. These challenges were ignored or made worse in the previous legislature. So you are talking about the Court of Auditors' report and the approach I envisage, while the previous government is partly responsible for that situation. I can reassure you, or rather the local authorities. This government has decided to act differently, because for us the local authorities are an essential element of our democracy. We have decided to soak in close consultation with the local authorities and the sub-entities. It is for this reason that I put a reform on the government table in the first phase. I have proposed a reform of the bonus-malus on which there is no consensus yet, but I have good hope that this will evolve in the right direction. I have decided that the NAVAP scheme will no longer be charged with the fund and to provide for a transfer of part of the wage moderation contribution for the coming years. In the second phase, a more in-depth consultation will be organised with the regions and local authorities in order to list the measures to be taken together. To conclude, I would like to stress that this government, of which I am a member, is a government based on consultation and cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u22	Madam Minister, it is good that you are part of a government based on consultation and cooperation, but it is all taking a while, of course. If you have concluded from my question that I am critical of the previous government, you have not understood my question. There may have been some mistakes here and there, but I was mainly talking about the Court of Auditors' criticism of the way in which the FPD is opposed to the Consolidated Pension Fund. You have responded with a bit of caution and a bit of a way around it, but I hear again that you are working on it and that you will correct it in the interests of pensioners and local authorities. I look forward to the concrete implementation of your ambition in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u23	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u24	Madam Minister, early retirement workers have also been obliged to take up their second pension pillar for a number of years. The effects of this measure vary greatly from person to person, depending on the type of plan, defined benefit or defined contribution. These are important differences in a mandatory recording. In addition, the tax is also higher than at a normal pension date. It is also linked to age and not to career. Although a transitional arrangement had been drawn up, it did not cover all the problems. In a judgment of 15 July 2021, a fairly recent judgment that you will no doubt know, the Constitutional Court pointed to a number of gaps in the transitional regime. Madam Minister, will you take a legislative initiative or initiatives to respond to the comments of the Constitutional Court? If so, I have no doubt, what adjustments will you make?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u25	Since 1 January 2016, the payment of the supplementary pension is linked to the entry into force of the statutory pension. As soon as a statutory pension is taken up, the supplementary pension must also be paid. It is no longer possible to leave the supplementary pension. This rule was introduced by the previous government, of which your party was a member. The Law of 18 December 2015 which introduced this rule did not provide for transitional measures in this respect. As a result, some of the citizens who had already applied for their pension were made aware of the facts. They had applied for their statutory pension on the assumption that they could still leave their supplementary pension, but as a result of the new legislation they were obliged to take up the supplementary pension suddenly. This led in some cases to a sharp reduction in the supplementary pension. The Constitutional Court has now ruled that the absence of transitional measures constitutes an infringement of the principle of constitutional equality. The result is that the law should be applied to the person concerned as if there were a transitional provision. Persons in such a situation may, on the basis of this ruling, request their pension institutions to recalculate their pension rights. In the event of a dispute, the court will have to apply the law in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. It is therefore not necessary to provide for such legislation. The unconstitutional nature established by the Constitutional Court relates only to the absence of transitional measures and not to the principle of linking the supplementary pension to the statutory pension. In other words, the judgment of the Constitutional Court does not mean that the link between the statutory pension and the supplementary pension should also be reviewed on the substance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u26	You referred to the previous government, but you have just confirmed that you have no problems with the law, for the substance of the matter. That's okay. There were transitional measures, but there were some gaps. The Constitutional Court put its finger on the wound there. You're saying it doesn't take a law change. A transitional measure is always temporary in itself. This may be corrected through the court.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, the application of the absolute ceiling rule is limited to Belgian pensions. Article 40 of the Law of 5 August 1978 does not mention foreign pensions or pensions granted by a supranational institution. This means that these pensions are not included in determining the absolute ceiling. Foreign or supranational pensions do not in principle affect the amount of pension granted to an official. These foreign or supranational pensions may have an impact on employees' pensions by having to be taken into account when limiting them to the unit of career. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u28	It's a difficult matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u29	It is indeed somewhat difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u30	You did not give a specific answer to my last question. I admit it was a bit of a naughty question. It was about a former European official who was punished by the European Court. I will not mention any names here, but what will be the impact of this on his pension calculation and then take into account the cumulative rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u31	I'll ask the Federal Pension Service and give you a written answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u32	No problem. I look forward to it. Do you have a deadline in mind for that? To keep an eye on my mailbox...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u33	Two weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u34	Two weeks? I'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u35	Commitments are made here. Wonderful, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u36	Madam Minister, at the end of September, you replied to my question on the IGO controls that the 80% quota of controls per year will be completely abolished and that you will step away from the door-to-door controls by the postal service. The Federal Pension Service will take control of those checks. There was also a KB ready to arrange this change. Although the suspension of controls for COVID-19 expired at the end of September, the Royal Decree was not in force on 1 October. However, you had not yet rebooted the checks according to the old rules. Have you informed the elderly with an IGO that the door-to-door controls have been abolished by postmen? Will the door-to-door checks be restarted? When will you enter the relevant KB? Why couldn't we do that immediately on October 1st? What are your plans for the FPD's checks? Does it concern targeted checks? Will the FPD officials also check at the door or will the control only take place remotely, by crossing the available data?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u37	Madam President, I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, your questions give me the opportunity to deal with this important dossier. This file is important because the procedure introduced by the previous government is not exactly popular with the IGO beneficiaries, nor with the postmen, who are not inspectors. That is why I extended the suspension as long as possible and, as soon as I became a minister, I asked the social partners to make concrete proposals in this area. As you know, the suspension of the control was not extended after 1 October. In the meantime, the social partners have agreed on the set of provisions to limit checks by excluding, firstly, short stays up to 48 hours from the 29-day rule, secondly, excluding persons over 80 years of age from the checks and, thirdly, deleting the 80% control target. This decision will be published shortly. The second part of the reform, the dossier containing the new proposals for controls, I submitted to the government. No agreement has yet been reached on this, but I am doing my best to find a solution as quickly as possible, as provided for in the coalition agreement, so that no one has to relive the situation before the corona crisis, neither the pensioners nor the postmen. My goal is very clear. I want to come to an agreement. I trust that all members of the government will want that, and that the existing control rules will be suspended and never applied again. The IGA beneficiaries are not second-class citizens. Once an agreement has been reached, we will communicate with the beneficiaries in an appropriate manner and explain clearly how the control will be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u39	Madam Secretary, what you say, we already know very well. We have also discussed the IGO controls many times in this committee. With regard to the IGO controls, I myself tabled a legislative proposal on which there was virtually consensus among the various political groups before the formation of the government. It has already been consulted, so that proposal is very far-reaching. I have put that aside for a moment because I wanted to give you the opportunity to take an initiative, but I can see that it will continue and that there is still no agreement. That is why I shall put my proposal back on the agenda. I would, of course, like to work that out in consultation with you and with colleagues. My proposal aims to ensure proper control, without the postman really asking if the person concerned actually lives at that address and without people having to be afraid to leave their homes. It must be possible in a simpler way, with a letter being handed over. If you are not at home, you should put the letter in the mailbox. When we discuss that proposal next week, I hope you will attend the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u40	Madam Minister, the situation is still unclear to me after 1 October. You have not carried out an extension, but you are still waiting for an answer from the social partners and from your fellow ministers. In the meantime, however, the parties concerned do not know anything. They are sitting at home anxiously waiting, not knowing whether the scheme has been suspended, whether or not they should stay at home and who will or will not carry out checks. It is important that you communicate about this. I agree that we should never return to the previous situation. I believe that you have made that clear without speaking directly. There is still no clarity as to how controls are to be carried out. I suppose we will have an answer to that in Parliament in the next few weeks or months. You can assume that we will help you remember that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I note that you are working very hard to find a solution in such a way that these controls, which used to be inhumane, never come back. The first phase would soon appear by royal decree. There is no agreement within the government on the second phase. I know you're behind it. I can only argue that the government should reach an agreement on this quickly, because it is now somewhat unclear to the IGA beneficiaries what stage they are in. From your reply, I have concluded that the checks will be suspended pending a new solution. I think that's very important. A previous suspension took place in the corona pandemic, but at the moment we see that the corona figures go back up and that 65-plussers all need a third shot to strengthen their immunity. That is why I think it is important that we should not allow vulnerable seniors to walk from here to there with their papers to prove, for the right to an IGO, that they do live in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u42	Madam President, Minister, the best consideration of gender inequalities is one of the foundations of your pension reform project. This evolution alone is a revolution that conflicts with the concerns expressed by the majority of your predecessors in this post on this subject. There are many areas of activity where this change of approach should bring about a series of improvements. This is particularly true of the Family and Seniors Assistance Services (FAAS). Their staff are ultra-mostly female. I would like to point out here that these women are doing an extremely difficult but nevertheless remarkable front-line job. This work is all too often forgotten, but we were able to appreciate its importance in the context of the health crisis and its confinements, a period during which these women never stopped, despite the danger to which their tasks, by definition, exposed them. It is also a sector with a very high rate of part-time employment. Again, I know that this is part of your concern about the work you are currently doing. Minister, what can you tell us about how the reform could actually take into account the particularities such as those I have just outlined about the SAFAs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u43	My colleague, combating inequalities in pensions is a priority. The gap between men's and women's pensions is a reality. In Belgium, women have an average of 1,114.90 euros of legal pension, while men have 1 488.70 euros, i.e. a difference of one third. This pension gap is the result of a historical gap between men and women in the labour market which has not yet been eliminated. This results in a very different pay gap and career paths between men and women. For example, women's careers are, as you said, generally shorter than those of men. Women are often employed in sectors where part-time work is the norm, including home help. According to Statbel, 43.6% of women work part-time. This has an inevitable impact on acquired pension rights. That is why, in my reform proposal, I remain vigilant about the impact on the situation of women. As part of the minimum pension, I want to improve the value of part-time work so that the employees concerned can also count on a decent minimum protection. In addition, I propose a uniform career condition for early retirement, so that people with lower qualifications can retire after 42 years of career, if they wish. Low-skilled jobs often also involve difficult and heavy occupations such as home help. In this way, we are taking an important first step towards the restoration of social justice in our pension system. Of course, this is only a proposal tabled on the government table, but I hope I will have the support of all the parties of the majority, since everyone asks me for more equality between men and women.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u44	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I will, of course, continue to be interested in how these reforms will be implemented. I take this reply to commend the work of SAFA employees, without whom a significant proportion of our fellow citizens would not be able to eat properly, shop, manage their budgets and carry out certain basic administrative tasks; work that will become even more important as the ageing of baby boomers will, over the next twenty years, lead to an increase in the proportion of older people in the Belgian population. It should also be borne in mind that the public receiving home help far exceeds that of families in difficulty, single-parent families or young people without parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u45	Question No 55021812C by Mrs Sophie Thémont is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u46	The Belgian Anti-Poverty Network (BAPN) recently published an evaluation report of the individualised project for social integration or GPMI, i.e. the guidance provided by the OCMWs. Since the legislative amendment in 2016, not only young people need to follow such a GPMI in order to receive a living wage, but it applies to all new applicants for a living wage. The law states that people entitled to a living wage must be accompanied in their professional and social involvement. The system is designed to provide tailored guidance to the most vulnerable in our society and to ensure that social security is not abused. However, the assessment of the BAPN shows that the focus of the GPMI is mainly on the conditionality of rights and on penalties. The GPMI is therefore mainly used as a stick behind the door. If the conditions imposed, often unilaterally, by the OCMW are not met, then a reduction or even a complete suspension of the living wage is risked. In this way, people find themselves in even more precarious situations, with no income or means of subsistence. Many people who sign a GPMI don't know they're actually signing a contract. They don't know exactly what that contract means either. They have to sign or they just don't get a living wage, they think. Many also do not understand the complex legal language. The conditions imposed are often high, leading to stress. If you miss an appointment, your living wage will be withheld immediately. There is also the case of the student whose living wage was suspended because her school results were poor, even as a result of the COOVID-19 crisis. The PPS Social Integration announced an evaluation of the GPMI. How's that going? When will Parliament get the results? In a response to the report, you indicated that you would talk to the BAPN. Has that happened yet? What conclusions do you draw from that conversation? You also indicated that you would like to come forward with proposals for reform of the GPMI. What do you propose and what timetable do you propose?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u47	Madam Minister, under your predecessor, the Social Integration PPS started an evaluation of the GPMI. The investigating agency Tempera is responsible for this. As you know, the PVDA is absolutely not a fan of imposing unfeasible conditions on people on a living wage. It doesn't help them at all in terms of work, living or relationships. The approach also differs widely from municipality to municipality and is therefore difficult to control. A serious debate on this is therefore urgent and important. At the end of September, you told me that you had the evaluation and that you would explain it after the budget discussions. Can you explain the main conclusions of the report? Are the conclusions consistent with the assessment made by the BAPN? On which points is it and on which is it not? Are you prepared to deliver the evaluation to Parliament this week? I think that's very important. Will you retain the GPMI or abolish it, as the poverty groups ask?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u48	Mr Colebunders, I received the report from the BAPN on the GPMI and I went through it together with my team. We will soon discuss its results with BAPN. As soon as the results of the evaluation of the PPS Social Integration are available, I will certainly forward them to you. So I'm just asking for a little patience. If it turns out that there is a need for reform, we will discuss it. I will give some answers to Ms. Thémont's questions. If reform is needed, we will have an opportunity to discuss its content. I also agree with Mrs Thémont that an ISIP must reflect the agreements agreed upon between the beneficiary and the CPAS. It cannot in any way be a unilateral act or an act inspired purely by a financial incentive. As part of the temporary measures related to Covid-19, I have provided for additional resources to strengthen the support of young people who benefit from an SIIP. This measure could be made structural, but not prior to an analysis of the entire project, including the findings of the above-mentioned evaluation and the feedback from the various stakeholders consulted in the preparation of the poverty reduction plan. However, I share your view, Mrs Lanjri, and I share your concern about the increasing consequences of contracting social relations and the impact of sanctions. I note that, like me, you do not want the GPMI to be limited to these two aspects. I am therefore counting on your support to get more resources. Those resources are needed to really help and guide those entitled to living wages in a realistic way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u49	Minister, thank you for the answer to Ms. Thémont's question. It will be available for review in the full report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u50	Madam Secretary, I'd still like to respond. When we introduced this measure, in 2016, a long debate preceded it. The emphasis was really on guidance, including from our group. You have received the report and will soon discuss it with the BAPN. That is also what I asked for, but I also asked for this to be made possible quickly, so that we could have a discussion on this in this committee. On the basis of this evaluation, we can see where we need to adjust, so that the emphasis is again placed on the guidance of vulnerable people and not used as a GPMI. In this context, I do not understand your demand for additional resources. You may ask me a great deal and I will certainly fight for more resources for those who need them, in that respect you will certainly find me a supporter. However, here it is about some OCMWs that actually abuse GPMI as a means to reduce the living wage and thus not guide the people. That can't be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u51	Madam Minister, I can really see a clear link with last week's debate on the long-term sick and even with that on the elderly with an IGO. Nothing's for nothing, nothing's for nothing, nothing's for nothing. Everyone with a benefit gets the stamp of profiteer. Benefits are then no longer a right but a favor, attached to conditions and guarded by sanctions. That is not the way we want it to be handled. PVDA doesn't go along with that culpabilisation. We shouldn't take off the sharp edges here, we just have to stop. One cannot expect someone with an income of 1,000 euros to quickly find an affordable home or a permanent job in large cities like Liège or Brussels. That is to run away from the major structural poverty problems. There's just no more homes and jobs for these people. Show them no longer with the finger, but guide them better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u52	Madam President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u53	Mrs Lanjri, the reference address does not solve the homeless problem, but offers them an opportunity to exercise certain rights. This system must therefore be made more accessible. Before consulting the Minister for the Interior, I instructed my administration to examine a draft circular drawn up together with the General Directorate of Institutions and Population of the Federal Ministry of the Interior. The aim of this draft circular is to identify the main sources of confusion and/or obstacles to the proper implementation of the measure by local authorities. This analysis is ongoing. In addition, the PPS Social Integration and the FPS Home Affairs have worked together to create a specific identification code for registrations at a reference address in the population register. This will enable us to better quantify the number of persons involved. This also allows for a more targeted approach for municipalities where too few reference addresses are registered in relation to other indicators of homelessness, such as the number of emergency shelters. The Inter-Ministerial Conference (IMC) which can adapt the cooperation agreement on homelessness still has to meet on the basis of a list of issues not yet established. The work currently being done to develop the new anti-poverty and inequality plan, from which you have received the framework paper, will contribute to the discussion within the framework of the IMC.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u54	It is true, Madam Minister, that, in any case, the main task must be to avoid homelessness and homelessness, preferably preventively, and to work on the situation of homeless people. We will certainly have that discussion in the context of your policy paper. An important step is to find a solution to have an address. Not everyone can take an address with a friend, for example. Hence the importance of such a reference address at the OCMW. I hope that will soon be done. You're saying the administration's already in the process of consulting. That is a good thing, but you should also effectively take this in hand with the Minister of the Interior, so that it gets right and people can get a reference address through the OCMW. It is a good thing that you want to keep track of the figures in order to get a better view of OCMWs that may never or not give people a reference address at the OCMW. Well, we'll definitely get a better look at that. I look forward to discussing this further and finding solutions to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u55	Madam President, Minister, in July you announced a draft law on the extension of the transitional allowance for young widows and widowers. We all know the reason for this. There have been several testimonies in the media, during the hearings in Parliament on the extension of mourning leave, several civil society organisations also said that the transitional allowance as it stands at present is not at all sufficient to support those young people who have already lost their partner, especially if they are left alone with children. Then you indicated that the transitional allowance for people without children would go from 12 months to 18 months, and for those who have children from 2 to 3 years. What's the status of these intentions? What is the deadline for enlargement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u56	Madam President, the reform of the transitional allowance is very important to me. Widows and widowers are in a precarious situation and are at great risk of poverty. That is why I am introducing a minimum amount equal to the minimum survivor's pension. The present transitional allowance does not take sufficient account of reality. That's why I'm reshaping the transitional allowance as announced. The duration shall be extended from 12 to 18 months if there are no dependent children and from 24 to 36 months if a youngest dependent child is over 13 years of age and from 24 to 48 months if a youngest dependent child is under 13 years of age. It is very important to modernise this benefit, which allows for a full accumulation of work income or social benefits. By extending the duration, she is more in line with reality. The extension to legal cohabitants will be taken into account in the modernisation of the family dimension. The impact of such decisions is important to such an extent that they require a thorough discussion. This reform was decided in the budget negotiations that have just been concluded. She'll be there this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u57	Madam Secretary, I'm waiting hopefully. I hope she gets there soon. We call for an extension of the transitional allowance for widows and widowers until the children are of age or complete their studies. By the way, we have also tabled an amendment to that effect to a CD&V legislative proposal. After all, we think this is important. An organisation that stands up for the family states in its opinion that a period of three years will not be enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u58	Madam Secretary, I look forward to the step forward that is being taken for widowers and widows who fall alone. Some witnesses say that after two years they are obliged to seek a new love. It would be a step forward if the reform were to take place as soon as possible. However, there are more things that we can do to support people if they lose their partner. In this sense, I call on Parliament once again to support my resolution, which lists all the points for which we can offer their additional support. It would be a good thing to take steps forward in this area, too, so that they can be supported in various areas in addition to their income and have the necessary support to go through the mourning period.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u59	Madam President, Madam Minister, in the Committee of 2 June 2021 you were asked a few questions about the possibility of amending the legislation so that when a pensioner dies, the payment can be made in proportion to the number of days that the pensioner was alive during that month. You replied that you asked your services to examine the specific issues of regulation and financial impact. Is that what happened in the meantime? If yes, what are the findings? If not, when can we expect the result?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u60	Madam President, Mr Colebunders, the administration has in the meantime examined the specific problem. It has calculated that the payment of a pension in the month of death, regardless of whether the pensioner dies before or after the normal payout date, has a total cost per month of EUR 2,596,480,1930. On an annual basis, this amounts to about EUR 31 million. I understand that the situation is perceived as unjust. However, we cannot simply make an adjustment with such a budgetary cost. In the light of structural reform, various dossiers can be put on the table. I would like to give the social dialogue every opportunity and therefore await the outcome of that discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u61	Madam President, Madam Secretary, I am falling off my chair for a moment. I don't know what one thing has to do with another. I understand that you're calculating this as a cost factor, but it's about people's money. When they die on the tenth or fifteenth day of the month, I believe they are entitled to the money for those ten or fifteen days. It's only natural. I look forward to seeing what you'll do with the case. We will keep a serious eye on it. We are talking here about an amount, but an amount that is due to the people concerned. Let's get that straight. That's nothing extra, but it's just an interpretation of the law that's not clear. We must think very urgently about the problem. I am convinced that my party will not let go of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u62	Madam President, Madam Minister, in your policy paper you will explain how you intend to properly underpin the planned pension reform, using micro- and macro-studies. You also announced that you would have several studies carried out on, among other things, the separation of pensions, the investment policy for supplementary pensions, a reduction in the cost of extra-legal pensions, a simplification of supplementary pension legislation, automation and administrative simplification, and a cumulation of the survivor's pension with a professional income. Madam Secretary, what about the progress of these studies? Can we look at the results soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, several studies are under way. As part of the reform, particular attention is given to the 'women and pensions' dimension. The discussion on the pension split is conducted there on the basis of a study which will be completed within a few months. A number of studies have already been carried out on supplementary pensions. In my question, Sigedis has analysed the level of contributions to supplementary pension systems. The results are available on PensionStat.be and are intended to feed the discussions between the social partners on the second pillar. In addition, Sigedis also analysed the harmonisation between workers and servants of sectoral supplementary pensions. The results were made available to the social partners. As regards the costs charged by pension institutions, as announced, I instructed the FSMA to carry out an investigation. The FSMA will organise a wide-ranging survey of the sector. The results are expected in the course of 2022. In addition to this research, we will soon launch a stakeholder consultation to identify possible measures to help reduce administrative costs within the second pillar. Investment policy within the second pillar will be part of a comprehensive strategy on sustainable financing, which the government will draw up. In a first phase, an external consultant will assist the government to identify policy options for this strategy. This study will be carried out through a wide participatory process involving all relevant stakeholders, such as financial supervisors, social partners and pension institutions. For the other studies, there is close cooperation with the administration to deliver quality work, in the interest of the socially insured. We work every day to improve the situation of the socially insured. We have managed to raise the minimum pensions, like the other lowest benefits. We are starting a structural pension reform and are also conducting daily further research into the themes that are close to the employees. I hope that we will be able to count on your support when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic609x.u64	You can always count on our support if it is for the benefit of the people. If it makes people better, I am sure that you will have a partner for us and that we will be constructive. However, I do not like the fact that I always have to get the information out of the press, and I have already told you that, Madam Minister. I'd love to be involved in those conversations, too. Do we really have to wait until these studies are completed to see them? Even if they're not ready, I'd still like to read them by e-mail. You yourself say in your policy paper that there is no point in taking measures which produce unwanted results and which are difficult to adjust or reduce afterwards. I believe that we can also be an added value in this debate. When I read between the lines, I am worried about one thing. I can conclude that the structural pension reform will not be before the beginning of next year. Or did I misunderstand that? That's political language, Madam Secretary. When I look at you like that, I'm even more worried. All right, we'll keep an eye on it and hope you won't be muddy for too long.
