ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin our work in the presence of Minister Dermagne, whom I thank. We begin with the first topical debate on the legal framework for telework.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u2	Minister, a survey of 3,000 employees shows that 37% of employees would consider a career switch in the next 12 months. According to the initiators of the survey, the results show that there is more movement on the labour market. In itself, that is a good thing. The survey also shows that homework has become an important job criterion as a result of the corona crisis. 58 % of employees take into account whether or not part of their work can be done at home when choosing a new employer. Those who have not had the opportunity to work at home in the past year apply today more than those who did, 68 % compared to 30 %. Also those who often had to go to the office during the corona crisis are more likely to consider changing jobs, 63 % compared with 44 %. We can conclude that for many Belgians telework is more important than ever in the search for a new job and often even a cause. So now that job mobility is back on track, it becomes important to establish a sustainable legal framework for teleworking. Today, specific rules are in place as a result of the corona crisis, but without a sustainable legal framework, for example, the well-being at work could be affected very quickly. Good deals make good friends. We need to ensure that we can work in a healthy and correct way. What is the state of the government with a lasting adjustment of the legal framework on teleworking? Will this adjustment take effect at the moment when the temporary measures relating to teleworking in the context of the corona crisis come to an end, or later?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u3	Minister, at the plenary session of the Chamber on 25 March I already expressed my concerns about the compulsory registration of telework by employers. Of course, the corona crisis has had a huge impact on our companies and as long as the number of infections was worryingly high, strict measures were indeed needed. By requiring telework, the spread of the virus could be restricted: in itself, that was a good measure, I would like to emphasise. At the same time, the measure created additional administrative burdens. That is a bit contrary to the government's ambition to go further in administrative simplification. Our contacts with employers' organisations have shown that they have received a negative response to the obligation. Although at best the declaration was limited to a monthly registration, it is considered to be unnecessary administrative burden in business circles, taking insufficient account of the need to introduce flexibility into the organisation of work. Our companies have shown an enormous sense of responsibility, are doing everything they can to create a safe place of work and to ensure that employees with administrative functions also have maximum telework. The registration of telework was thus perceived as an unnecessary act. Although teleworking has been relaxed since 9 June, it can provide firms with re-entry times at the workplace. As from 27 June, telework will no longer be compulsory and I assume that registration can be abolished. How many percent of companies passed on data for the registration of telework? What feedback did you receive from the employers' organisations? Do you intend to abolish the obligation to register, which seems logical to me in view of the current relaxations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u4	Minister, I have often asked questions here about telework and I agree with the previous speakers. During the corona period, teleworking took a huge flight. From 27 June, telework is recommended but no longer mandatory. In any case, we have learned a lot of positive and negative lessons. One thing is certain: many workers want to continue to work telework. It is reported that the social partners are working on a structural framework and that hearings have begun. When will the framework for structural teleworking come into being? The temporary collective agreement ends when telework is no longer recommended. Does that mean from September 2021 or will it still apply until December 2021? That is not clear at all. We also see the growing need for such a framework on the ground. The possibility of teleworking even proves to be an argument for employees to accept or not accept a job or change a job. At the same time, we can see how in negotiations there is considerable savings in offices, while loosely dealing with telework fees, which often do not cover real costs. Some workers are almost being put under pressure to work as well as full-time. There is therefore a need for a structural framework. By when will it be completed? For example, chalk lines can be given to the negotiators of the companies on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u5	In the meantime, Minister, it is clear that telework is becoming a keeper. Our group, through my colleague Ellen Samyn, has asked a number of questions about this. We have received a number of evasive answers. It is clear, however, that there are still many gaps in the regulations. Too often it is left to the employee to agree on a fair remuneration with his employer. That's hard on a lot of employees. The legislator is abandoning them in this respect. What's your take on the gaps? When will there be a solution? The survey referred to by Mr Anseeeuw has shown that a very small proportion of workers receive compensation for working at home. It's often even lower than the maximum ceiling you've raised. Don't you think that more equitable legislation is needed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u6	Minister, for a year and a half we have seen incredible upheavals in many areas. Almost everyone who can work telework does so and often does so. I hear that one half think that's fantastic and sees a lot of opportunities in telework, while the other half of the people need to be on the job floor, to see colleagues. Since there are many advantages to teleworking, it is important that we create good conditions to use that teleworking after the corona crisis. After all, there are opportunities for the work-life balance. There are fewer journeys, which is better for mobility and makes sure that the people who need to get somewhere get there too. It is better for our environment and for our living environment. There are also risks. We have already discussed the psychosocial risks of teleworking. We have already discussed the gender dimension. Mr Vanrobaeys also said that workers should be able to work in good conditions, supported by good agreements and a clear framework. It concerns, among other things, the remuneration and ergonomic material to work in a decent way at home. All these elements require us to work out a good structural framework so that workers can return to the workplace in good time on the one hand and on the other hand be given greater autonomy to choose whether or not to use telework. If good agreements are made on this subject, this offers great opportunities, provided that we provide adequate protection for workers. In short, what is the timetable for a detailed framework, which is very much needed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, structural teleworking in the private sector is regulated by collective agreement No. 85, which was closed in the National Labour Council on 9 November 2005. The occasional telework is regulated by the law of 5 March 2017 on workable and manoeuvrable work. On 26 January 2021, the social partners and the National Labour Council concluded collective agreement No. 149 off, complete recommended or mandatory telework due to the corona crisis. This collective agreement is an additional collective agreement which applies only to companies which had not yet developed telework regulations on 1 January 2021 on the basis of the above mentioned schemes. The collective agreement therefore does not apply to existing agreements in companies. Cao No. 149 is closed for a specified period and will cease to apply on 31 December 2021. The agreement also applies only to telework which is mandatory or recommended by the government in the context of the corona crisis. As soon as the telework is no longer mandatory or recommended by the government, the agreement will therefore no longer apply. Where collective agreement No. 149 will cease or cease to apply, companies will fall back on the existing arrangements I mentioned earlier and any agreements concluded within this framework. On 26 November 2020, I asked the National Labour Council to review the existing framework on telework and deconnection and to consider whether additional initiatives are needed to update the regulatory framework. The question was repeated on 25 February 2021, and on 9 June I informed the social partners that I expected a result of these discussions in the course of September. Discussions in the National Labour Council are currently under way. On the basis of the opinion of the social partners, I will judge which changes are appropriate. In other words, the evolution of the corona crisis and the work of the social partners will determine whether the existing rules will be adapted at the time of expiry of the temporary measures. I am confident that the social partners are fully aware that in this a rapid outcome of their discussions is more than appropriate. As far as the compulsory registration of telework is concerned, I will discuss the results of the month of May. The reporting period for the month of May expired on 6 May 2021. On 4 May, the RSZ contacted all companies that had not yet made a declaration in order to inform them of the obligation to make a declaration. Companies with 5 to 50 employees received an e-mail. Companies with more than 50 employees were contacted by telephone. Declarations submitted after 6 May were accepted but considered to be late. Approximately 95% of employers employing more than 50 employees have submitted a telework declaration. I will provide you with the table of the number of employees and the number of declarations submitted through the secretariat of this committee. We have taken into account the feedback we received on this issue. This resulted in the exemption from the registration obligation applicable since the latest amendment of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020. For example, registration obligations no longer apply to SMEs employing fewer than 5 people, certain health care employers and a large proportion of educational institutions. For the group of independent retailers, it was decided no longer to maintain this obligation for the month of June, because workers could rather be exceptionally teleworking there. From 27 June, telework is recommended and should no longer be registered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I do not think that we can sufficiently emphasise the importance of good teleworking agreements. It is good that we continue to work on this. I hope that the NAR will produce a result in September and that it will clarify whether or not to extend collective agreement No. 149 after New Year's Eve. I hope not, of course. I hope that we can quickly put this miserable corona crisis behind us, but whether it is being extended or not, I think there are still too many people working teleworking today who do not know the agreements in force. Many people do not know what compensation they are or are not eligible for and what facilities the employer best provides to ensure a safe working environment at home. Also with regard to the deconnection there are good practices that need to be shared much more. After all, it is not as easy for all teleworkers to leave that work literally and figuratively behind when the day job is finished. A lot of people have been put to the test in the last few months. It is really high time to communicate very clearly to all stakeholders what good practices are, how best to organise them, what the rights and obligations are for both employers and employees, with a view to a good and safe work organisation that is fully committed to the well-being of workers. I think this should be the concern. We must also give people maximum information about this, regardless of whether the NAR will produce a result in September or whether there will be a new regulation after New Year's. The existing regime is too often unknown and unloved. It is in everyone's interest that this is known by all stakeholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for giving us the tables, because that information is very important. I am very pleased that the compulsory registration of telework is being abolished. This is also a logical step after no longer requiring telework. In this way, there is an administrative burden less for employers and companies can focus on the reintegration of workers into the workplace. I am also pleased to hear that the social partners were asked to develop further a framework, even though we have collective agreement No. 85 that can perfectly serve as a base. It is also positive that workers and employers can agree on telework even after the corona period. Teleworking has clearly had a number of advantages for both employers and employees. A good combination of telework and office work can be an ideal formula for many employees and employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u10	Minister, I hope, together with you, that the social partners will quickly achieve a result and a good framework for agreements. In the period before corona, telework was not so well established, but now it has taken a huge flight and Belgium is the best pupil in Europe. On the ground it is noted that more people want to continue to work telework, but they also want to see some framework against it. We need to emphasise what the legislation in force is, such as welfare legislation with the right to have a pleasant office at home, but at the same time we also see that the legislation in force is insufficient in terms of reimbursement of expenses and reimbursements. At present, some companies are putting pressure on workers to accept more flexibility and full-time telework. This is done under pressure because otherwise the rules on homework will apply. This is a very unfortunate evolution and I therefore urge once again a good framework for agreements. I have, moreover, tabled a motion for a resolution to this House. It is a shame, because there are indeed possible disadvantages. We must pay attention to the voluntary nature and the right to deconnect. On the other hand, there are many advantages of teleworking which facilitate the combination of work and private life and which we must not let go.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u11	Minister, after the many relaxations that have arisen spontaneously among many employers, the Consultative Committee followed in the end. The relaxations to return physically to work are often welcomed in cheers, but at the same time many employees have of course also discovered the advantages of homework. We must support this desire and demand through legislation that is legally binding or a collective agreement, also with good agreements and compensation. In addition, the well-being of the worker must not be overlooked. Homework has many advantages, but also involves some dangers. Let us not lose sight of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u12	Mr Minister, if I take my last turn, it has the advantage that I can see that everyone across party boundaries and also across the borders of majority and opposition is saying the same thing. If the social partners can come up with a good framework for evaluating what already exists and making new agreements, then much can be done to make telework even better in the coming years than in the past year, when it was mandatory. As Mr Vanrobaeys said, it was not really established before, but there is now a good breeding ground in Parliament and hopefully with the social partners to do even better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u13	Before we move on to the second topical debate, I would like to propose a change to our working method. Normally, in a topical debate, a group which has not tabled a question may ask a question directly, either in the form of a question or in the form of a reply. We used to make a question and a reply, whereas it's normally one or the other. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you can therefore refrain from asking a question – which is already regularly included in the other questions – to obtain a reply. This, if this proposal to change the unexpected method suits you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u14	Madam President, Minister, I would like to comment on the previous topical and urgent debate. I did not wish to interrupt in the course of the debate, but it is true that the Rules provide that those who have tabled a question are entitled to ask the question and a reply, but that those who have not tabled a question will only be given the floor once, either immediately after the questioners, or immediately after the replies. That was different in the previous topical and urgent debate and I would ask that the Rules of Procedure be applied in future in all topical and urgent debates. Otherwise, there is little work to be done and no more questions to be asked. That could be the perverse effect. I therefore ask you not only to do so for the next topical debate, as you propose, but to do so in the future, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u15	If I understand correctly, then we propose the same thing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u16	Madam President, I would like to say that I did not put a question on time, but that I forwarded my question to the minister's office and the secretariat about half an hour ago. I propose that I take the floor once and do not reply to the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u17	It is indeed a courtesy to send it in advance, but it is true that it cannot be regarded as a question of the group. Therefore, I propose that, from now on, we choose to be either in the question or in the reply, but doing both is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u18	Madam President, Minister, just as in the road transport sector, social dumping is a widespread phenomenon in the construction sector. Workers hired by large Belgian companies in this sector are rare; in many cases these companies operate mainly by outsourced labour. For these companies, this process brings more flexibility, less burdens, but above all more room for manoeuvre to lower costs. In fact, by using subcontractors, who themselves rely on subcontractors who engage in social dumping, some unscrupulous companies manage to have access to unbeatable prices, while ensuring that social inspectors find it difficult to determine their responsibility as the first payer. Thus, when cases of social dumping come to light, often only subcontractors are charged, while large Belgian construction companies are spared due to lack of evidence. Minister, I welcome your recent initiative to increase the number of social inspectors and strengthen controls. Nevertheless, there are still obstacles to the proper performance of the inspectors' work. Among them, weak European cooperation in the fight against social dumping makes the outcome of an investigation difficult - delays in procedures and prescriptions sometimes prevent inspectors from reaching the originators. Are discussions currently taking place at European level to strengthen fraud detection mechanisms in the construction sector? The Construction Confederation calls for the creation of a central database with market prices, in order to allow European companies to refuse tenders whose prices would be abnormally low, and therefore suspect of recourse to social dumping. Do you think that this proposal could help to reduce the incidence of social dumping in the construction sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u19	Madam President, Minister, ONSS has published figures of its action to detect the risks of economic exploitation, with a special focus on construction. At the outset, my question was specifically about the follow-up to these figures published by ONSS. The purpose of this approach was to check whether the rules on working conditions were respected, particularly for risky or dangerous work situations, and the current situation draws our attention to a dramatic issue, which is quite related to this issue. Of the 35 sites visited by ONSS and the 126 employers inspected, one quarter of the workers were not in order: some were found to be working in black, others were illegally employed, and one fifth of posted workers were not complying with their obligations. When we look at the sector and talk to SIRS, especially during the hearing, we realize that secondment is an opportunity for unscrupulous employers to fraud. This has extremely negative consequences both for the workers concerned and for the rights of all workers. Minister, what follow-up are they reserved for these controls? Is there any consultation with the social partners? How can joint fraud be prosecuted in collaboration with other jurisdictions, such as CTIF, etc.- Is that what you're saying? We are obviously obliged to make the link with this dramatic news: five people lose their lives on a construction site. This is a construction fault, but we realize that there were a lot of subcontractors. This complicates the organization, safety management and responsibility management - the construction sector is well aware of this. As a result, all five deceased persons were employed by subcontractors. It is noted that there are far more accidents at work among subcontractors than in parent companies - those with contracts. Minister, the unions are calling for more controls, especially in light of this tragedy in Antwerp. In addition to the questions I have just addressed to you, I would like you to indicate to us the extent to which you intend to pay particular attention to the specifications of public contracts. How do you think you are improving the situation of the detachment, with the means that are yours? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u20	Minister, last Friday a human drama took place in Antwerp when a school building collapsed in construction. Five people were killed, people from distant countries, namely Portugal, Romania, Ukraine and Moldova. In our construction sector, some 70,000 people currently work abroad, which is a quarter of the total. It is expected that, in the context of the relance, this is very important for the construction market to be even more affected by the relance and by the limited number of skilled workers. That forces us to be much more vigilant in the face of possible problems. There are many questions about working conditions for those construction workers. At the beginning of June, the European Impact Action Days Labour Exploitation was again organised, focusing on the construction sector. With us the checks were carried out by the RSZ. It showed that a quarter of the controlled individuals weren't okay, really a hallucinating figure. We also know that these people often have to work in inhuman conditions and have very precarious status. They often work on a piece for weeks. They do have a residence permit, but it is unclear whether they will actually return after they have expired. How is that controlled? They work very often under the Belgian minimum wage and often as self-employed. It is also important that their housing is unworthy of human dignity. Mr Minister, as regards the Antwerp accident, the work audit centre has been on the spot. When are you expecting a report? Will you give Parliament an insight into the main conclusions of that report? The unions have asked for a meeting. Are you going to answer that? When will that take place? Other actors, such as Fairwork Belgium, also need to be interviewed. In general, I also have questions about the state of play of the creation of the European Labour Authority, which should be completed by 2024. To what extent is Belgium already preparing for this? The concerted action is, of course, very good. The results are important. Are there plans to carry out such concerted actions more often? The government agreement states that the number of inspectors will be brought into line with International Labour Organisation (ILO) standards. We are far from achieving that standard. I know that you want to increase the number of inspectors and also the number of checks. What specific growth path do you foresee? When are we going to get close to the ILO directive? What other actions will you take to improve the precarious working conditions of foreign workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u21	Question No 55019200C by Mrs Nadia Moscufo is not relevant given her absence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u22	The tragic accident at the building-up school in Antwerp once again pushed our society with our noses at the facts. Our construction sites are becoming more international. At first, it was not even clear to the emergency services what nationality the deadly victims had. In the end it turned out to be four Portuguese and a Moldovan Romanian who died in this accident. There were also many other nationalities among the injured. According to the construction trade union ACVBIE, the number of yard accidents involving foreign workers will only increase. Throughout the chain of subcontractors, control is very difficult. Workers often do not know our language, our rules and our safety regulations. A contractor hires a subcontractor who takes on self-employed workers in its own right, often from third countries outside the European Union. This creates a situation which cannot be regulated. It also increases, of course, the chance that employees do not know our language and rules. Our safety regulations are also unknown to them, as are our materials and techniques. The construction sites are also becoming more and more highly technological. All this has an increasing risk of an accident. Mr Minister, do you agree to the construction trade union's request for a meeting to be held soon? Can we not prevent dramas such as those in Antwerp with more regulation? How can we oblige our subcontractors to only hire workers who know our rules, safety regulations and, why not, our language? How do we avoid problems and misunderstandings in yards due to language barriers? How can we reduce the European Posting of Workers Directive to the benefit of our own workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u23	Minister, what happened in Antwerp is a very human tragedy. That is why it is a pity that I am asking my questions here. My thoughts also go out to the victims, the people who died, the wounded and their neighbors. It is true that many victims and all the deceased were workers from other European countries, who mainly worked for foreign subcontractors, often also with the technology of posting. There is nothing wrong with subcontracting and posting. Some colleagues here give the impression that there is, by definition, fraud involved in subcontracting, but I do not think that we should throw away the baby with the bath water. This generalization is the same as saying that all politicians are pocket-fillers. I think we agree that this is not the case. So we have to be careful with that. I note, however, that posting has become a rule rather than an exception in our country. In the other European countries, posting is mainly an exception. Belgium is the only country where it is the rule. Of course, that can never be the intention. According to European legislation, foreign workers must earn the same amount as Belgian workers when they are working here. In principle, the rules governing working time and well-being at work should also be followed. Of course, this welfare legislation also aims to ensure safety in the broad sense of the word. There are a number of challenges when it comes to foreign workers. A safe working environment is primarily an environment where everyone working at the construction site knows and respects all safety regulations. The mix of languages is, of course, a huge challenge in making the safety instructions available to the yard world wide. If one cannot easily read it, if one cannot easily communicate with colleagues, one is by definition exposed to higher risks. We must be very careful about this. A person who did not understand the rules as well as he did, literally, could be a danger to the fellow workers who do rely on good and clear agreements. When it comes to false self-employment, the problem is even greater, as the rules on pay and working time can therefore be put out of play. I believe that we can agree, or at least suspect, that if one rule is broken, there is a good chance that other rules relevant to the well-being and safety at work will also be violated. We must pay particular attention to this, and that is why I have the following questions for you, Minister. First of all, what investigations will your control services carry out, specifically for the incident in Antwerp? Will the research concern only the accidents at work itself, or will the research go wider? Secondly, how are contacts with employers and public authorities in the countries of origin? What research actions will you have carried out specifically there? Thirdly, following the incident in Antwerp, will additional checks be carried out to detect employers and/or bogus self-employed persons who follow the posting rules, including compliance with safety rules or rest periods? Will you step up those checks? Fourthly, have you already contacted fellow ministers from other EU Member States and the European Commission to address the improper use of secondment? If so, have you been given particular support or earlier opposition in your efforts to reduce the abuse and misuse of posting?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u24	Thank you, Madam President. I just sent in my question. Minister, last Friday was a dramatic day, not only for the construction industry, but also for Antwerp, the city I come from, and for the families of the victims. Five workers died when part of a school collapsed. The dead and injured are posted workers with Portuguese, Romanian, Ukrainian and Moldovan nationality. At the moment there is a full investigation of what exactly went wrong and whether mistakes have been made. That's gonna have to tell the court. Probably a construction error. Unfortunately, human mistakes are always possible. However, this tragedy should also encourage us to have a wider debate on the employment of foreign workers in our country, and in particular the working conditions of foreign workers and self-employed workers. The European legislation in this regard, the Posting of Workers Directive, naturally allows for legal employment, provided that foreign workers are subject to the same wage and working conditions as Belgian colleagues. Pressure is being used by these regulations. In addition to the 200,000 Belgian workers in construction there are also 70,000 foreign workers working in Belgium. There are also a number of loopholes in the regulation that allow social dumping and unfair competition. For example, many foreign workers make very long working days, they all have a different status, they often have false self-employment, they receive different safety instructions and so on. In the event of an accident at work, foreign workers are paid much less than if they had paid social contributions in our country, which are much higher than what they pay in their own country. As a result, they also receive a much lower benefit. That is what is at issue in this system, which is not illegal, but which has adverse consequences. It means that cheap workers often have to work in precarious, unsafe conditions. That was never the intention of the Posting of Workers Directive. There's still a lot of work to be done here. ACV BIE calls for extra attention to the safety of foreign workers. They advocate the introduction of a certificate so that it can be demonstrated that safety training has been given. It is also proposed to work with interpreters to ensure that everyone has understood the rules correctly. There is also a case for a system of clocking in and out at the yard, so that we know for sure who is working at what time. In the case of dramas such as that in Antwerp, one could quickly check who is present at the yard. Minister, how are the checks carried out on compliance with the rules on posting, for example as regards the payment of a decent wage? How often is compliance with the rules on posting monitored, in particular safety rules and working hours? How many violations have been reported in the past year? What do you think of the trade union ACV's proposals to improve the working conditions of posted foreign workers? Will you get to work on these proposals? ACV and Fairwork Belgium have asked you to discuss this problem on the substance. Will you respond to this question and consult with civil society in order to seek solutions together with them and other partners? Today, we read in the press that, according to the labour auditors, there is a severe shortage of manpower to carry out controls themselves. This is now partly left to the contractor. Does the government provide additional means to support the employment auditors? By 2024, a European Labour Authority should be operational in order to promote cooperation between Member States' inspection services. What's the status of the government with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to ensure that your speaking time is respected so that we can move forward in our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. As some members of this Assembly have done, I would like to express my deepest condolences to the families and friends of the victims of the Antwerp accident and wish those who are hospitalized with a speedy recovery. The yard in question has not been inspected by the territorially competent regional management of the Directorate-General for Welfare Monitoring at Work. Given the limited inspection capacity, it is not possible to systematically inspect each yard or company. The list of companies subject to aggravated risks is transmitted annually by Fedris to the Directorate General Occupational Well-Being Control (CBE). To date, it has not been systematically verified, but it is, of course, a point of attention for inspection services. In view of the limited inspection capacity available to the Directorate-General for Occupational Well-being Control and the fact that firms with aggravated risks are already subject to intensive monitoring by the Occupational Accident Prevention Service with regard to the implementation of their action plan for the prevention of accidents at work, no additional means have been affected by the inspection. However, as some of you have pointed out or pointed out, my objective is to increase the capacity of inspection services. A first step has already been taken in previous work on budgetary adjustment to allow for the engagement of inspectors. We will continue in this process, but it is difficult today to tell you exactly at what pace. This depends on a debate within the government to unblock budgets and the need to engage and train people. However, I confirm my willingness to strengthen the various inspection services and, in particular, those relating to the control of well-being at work. The list of enterprises will be integrated into the multi-annual inspection control programme being developed by the department, which will include a follow-up programme for companies and sectors to be visited as a matter of priority. In particular, the inspection services shall verify whether the workers concerned have received the necessary instructions and training in the area of occupational welfare, whether they are putting them into practice in the field, whether they have the necessary protective equipment and whether they are subject to health surveillance. With regard to the ongoing investigation, the welfare inspector was on site this Friday afternoon, but due to the situation and the risk of acute collapse, he was unable on that day to make a great deal of observations due to the risk of danger and, moreover, to the intervention of the rescue services still in search of victims and especially survivors. A detailed report in which the accident at work is reviewed by the internal and/or external prevention advisors of all parties involved will be submitted to the inspection within 10 days of the accident. Pending this report, the Occupational Welfare Inspector began his own investigation on the basis of an internal investigation directive. The Work Welfare Inspectorate conducts this investigation in consultation with the Labour Auditor. As regards the specific problem of social dumping in construction, many initiatives have been taken in the past to optimise cooperation between inspection services at international level. One example is the conclusion of bilateral agreements between administrations or the memorandum of understanding (MoU) at the political level. But a European problem requires, of course, a European approach and a European response. The European legislator and the Member States worked there in 2017, which led to the creation of the European Labour Authority (ELA), which was set up in mid-2019. The aim of this authority is to help ensure fair labour mobility throughout the Union and to assist the Member States and the European Commission in the coordination of social security systems within the Union. The various tasks of the ELA are: - to improve the availability, quality and accessibility of information in general provided to individuals, employers and social partner organisations on their rights and obligations with regard to labour mobility; - support EU countries in the provision of services to individuals and employers through EURES, such as synchronisation of cross-border jobs, training courses, etc.; - facilitate cooperation and rapid exchange of information between different countries; - to coordinate and support the relevant and joint inspections, called concerted and joint inspections; - support the countries of the European Union in capacity-building for coherent application of applicable EU law, e.g. through mutual assistance and training, including in the development of common guidelines; - strengthening the work of the European platform to intensify cooperation in the fight against undeclared work, with a view to exchanging best practices, developing expertise and analysis and encouraging innovative approaches; - to act as a mediator and to contribute to the resolution of disputes between the countries of the Union in order to reconcile the different points of view; - cooperate with the countries of the European Union to assess risks and carry out analyses related to labour mobility and the coordination of social security systems. It should also be mentioned that the European platform to combat undeclared work was established in 2016. The Member States and the Commission have made an important contribution in raising awareness, preventing, detecting, inspecting and monitoring undeclared work offences. Therefore, the 2021 SIOD Action Plan includes numerous initiatives to combat cross-border social fraud more effectively, not only through the measures already mentioned, but also through workshops between the different inspection services and joint and coordinated controls within the framework of the European Labour Authority, the European Labour Authority. Mechanisms for detecting fraud, and not just for the construction sector, are currently being investigated at European level. The creation of a database, on the other hand, falls within the competence of the SPF Economy or the Chancellery. However, in any event, the public authority has an exemplary role to play in the fight against social dumping in the context of public procurement and concession contracts. Increased transparency in the price of tenders through the creation of such a database can help to avoid or, in any case, prevent social dumping. Penalties are provided for in the Social Penal Code. For employees without a valid residence permit, there is a level 4 penalty, i.e. a prison sentence of six months to three years and/or a criminal fine of 4,800 to 48,000 euros, for the employer, his employee or his representative. For employees with a valid residence permit but without a work permit, there is a level 3 penalty, i.e. a criminal fine of EUR 800 to EUR 8 000, for the employer, his employee or his representative. In the case of undeclared work and therefore in the case of an infringement of the Dimona declaration, there is a level 4 penalty for the employer, his employee or his agent. For all offences under the Social Penal Code, fines are multiplied by the number of employees involved. In addition, if an offence has been committed knowingly and voluntarily, the court may impose the penalties provided for in article 106 (prohibition of the business and closure of the business) and article 107 (prohibition of the business and closure of the business). Some of you mentioned Impact Action Day. It was created to detect social fraud and trafficking in human beings during the secondment of third-country nationals via Portugal. Even when establishing detachment fraud or illegal employment, it was strongly stressed that special attention should be paid to the subsequent care of potential victims. The latter may benefit from a special protection procedure. However, it must be recognized that it is difficult to convince victims because they are often close to their employer, they also fear, and above all, reprisals for themselves or their families in their country of origin, as well as a range of retaliatory measures. In the course of the action, some victims eventually withdrew for this reason, despite the fact that the inspectors and the reception centres had already begun the procedure. This morning I received a trade union delegation from the construction sector. I have informed them that I cannot provide much additional information on the specific dossier, as there is a judicial investigation going on. We exchanged our concerns about working conditions, in particular with regard to foreign workers, whether third-country nationals or not, posted or directly employed by Belgian companies. During this morning's discussion, we agreed that an exchange would be set up before construction leave in order to define the problems more clearly and to start a process to deal with them. This morning, work started between my services, myself and the union representatives. They have submitted a number of proposals to me. The findings were, of course, divided. Our will is to deploy an action plan very quickly that will require – and you have been many to mention – the collaboration of other members of the government. Ms Lanjri referred to the Minister of Justice regarding the additional means to be given to the labour auditorate. We can also think of my colleague Vincent Van Peteghem, Minister of Finance, who is responsible for combating social and tax fraud. We will therefore carry out this task with the social partners – trade unions and representatives of employers – but also with several members of the government directly or indirectly concerned by this important topic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u27	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. Social dumping unlawfully competes with the social systems of different countries and threatens the construction sector and its workers. The working conditions are unbearable and dangerous, as the Antwerp accident showed us again. I join the condolences extended to the families surprised by this tragedy. The problems caused by the lack of rights to social security and the wages of poverty must be solved and subject to better European cooperation. I am pleased to hear that initiatives will be further developed in this direction. The question of the liability of large companies for social dumping and exploitation of workers is indeed central. I welcome your willingness to strengthen inspection services so that we can certainly deepen investigations and limit cases of social dumping. I would also like to welcome the action plan that you are going to draw up with other members of the government concerned, as well as with the social partners, in order to avoid the recurrence of such situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u28	Minister, thank you very much for your comprehensive answers. Fraud is harmful to everyone. First of all, it is to those who are victims of it. These people are really exploited, as the Impact Action Days have reminded us. Moreover, fraud leads down the most precarious workers – often seconded and subcontractors. Through the tragedy of Antwerp, we realize that they have paid a very heavy price. It is very positive that I stress the attention you give to the inspection services, which you want to strengthen. Similarly, you want to consolidate European cooperation. As you say, the problem is European, so must the answer. Then I think it is necessary to come back to the issue of transparency of public procurement at a later stage. I would also like to highlight the particular attention you would like to pay to victims who fear reprisals from their employer in the event of a denunciation. These disadvantaged people, who are victims of fraud and abuse of secondment, should receive great attention. I have heard it in your answer and am very satisfied with it. Finally, I should like to stress the very commendable approach that you have taken with the social partners in order to exchange ideas between them and your services. This approach to developing an action plan is expected to begin before the summer. I hope we can discuss this in the fall. In any case, I wanted to welcome and thank you for this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u29	Minister, we firmly believe that there is an incredibly important key to increasing controls and therefore the number of people needed to carry them out. We are a partner to ensure that more people and resources go to those controls, because that is really the key. We are also faced with very complex situations in which there are many possibilities and many loopholes. No one has any problems with a level playing field in this respect. However, the current circumstances give rise to difficulties. It is sometimes technically difficult to check and it is sometimes difficult in the area of legislation. Sometimes a lot of people need to be checked and it is not always clear who is responsible for which construction worker on a yard. This means that the Inspection has a particularly difficult task. That's why I need to be with enough people. We welcome the European initiatives and also the initiatives you are announcing in our country. It is a European problem, but it is also almost a global problem. I understand that a lot of Portuguese construction workers are coming here because in Portugal people are coming to work on even lower conditions, so that the Portuguese construction workers no longer find work in their own country. This European coordination is incredibly important, but there is even a lot of work at world level. Those are all dominoes that are connected and fall one by one. It is very important that we make this a priority in the coming years. Minister, it is clear to us that we find a partner in you for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u30	Minister, I am also aware that some colleagues have little problem with posting. I do have a problem with that. Regretful and tragic accidents such as that of Friday in Antwerp, only feed more. More inspectors on the premises is one thing. Synchronized and transparent actions, as you suggest, a second. However, more will be needed. I am convinced that we need to do more to combat malicious posting and subcontracting. Social dumping is often not on its own, but is part of a whole chain of problems: poor working conditions, housing, exploitation, illegal migration. Often one does not have to look very long to find these phenomena in these files as well. The recommendation recently made in this committee by a representative of the SIOD at a hearing may be a guiding principle. If it depends on my party, many initiatives may also be taken at the same time to limit the use and abuse of the Posting of Workers Directive, especially for those working with subcontractors from outside the EU, such as Russia, Brazil and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u31	Mr Minister, I would like to begin by thanking you for your very clear and nuanced answer on this very important issue which can have far-reaching consequences. That's what we've been able to see this weekend. Therefore, we should not target everyone who works as a contractor or contractor in construction. You didn't. Why am I making that remark? Because I do belong to a number of other colleagues. If I listen to Mrs Cornet on the left, I hear a very one-sided story. When I hear Mr Verreyt on the right, he wants to get rid of the posting. Mr Verreyt, I would like to make it clear to you that the region that will bleed the hardest if we put investment under pressure will be Flanders. That is what you do when you make any form of posting impossible. That'll be on your conto. I think that posting should be the exception rather than the rule. In this country, it's the other way around. We must ask ourselves why we are the strange duck in the bite compared to other European countries. In this way we may be able to find a solution to restore a balance with healthy proportions, without putting pressure on investment in our country. Prosperity, well-being, safety at work must go hand in hand with investment in our country. We all benefit from that. A good approach to the improper use of Posting Directives is an important part of this. However, let us not put everything on the same footing and throw the child away with the bath water. Otherwise we will cut into our own flesh and that cannot be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u32	Madam President, I tabled my question too late yesterday. I will therefore withdraw them, so that there are no double answers to be given. Thank you, Minister, for your answers. For my part, too, I would like to express my condolences to the victims of the dramatic accident and to their families. That accident is pressing us first and foremost with the nose on the facts. The RSZ report states that one quarter of the controlled companies are not in order and one fifth do not comply with the rules of posting. If the rules are complied with, posting is acceptable, but when it is abused, everyone is the victim. Workers have to work hours without complaining, live in precarious living conditions and because of language problems they do not understand each other. This often causes a chain of problems in which safety and welfare legislation is not complied with. Employers who do comply with the law are equally victims, victims of the unfair competition that this causes. Minister, you will of course also find a partner in us to extend the inspection services. I hear you saying that this has to be done gradually, but I would like to see a step back in that direction, given the abuses. This is about the construction sector, but the same applies to other sectors where such practices occur. I am also pleased that you have heard the trade unions and that you are working with them on a path. I believe that knowledge of the field is very important. When we change certain rules, we notice that new ways of evasion are being found. We have important partners in the trade unions to act quickly and correctly against abuses. Finally, I would like to draw attention to public procurement. I do not wish to comment on whether this was an abuse in Antwerp, but it was a building of community education. We note that there is also a trend towards less and less in public procurement. There should be more attention to stop that race to the bottom.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u33	Mr Gaby Colebunders and Mrs Nadia Moscufo are not here today. Question No 55018021C by Mrs Moscufo is postponed at her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u34	Mr Minister, recent improvements in cancer screening and treatment reduces the risk of cancer death year after year, giving more and more people cancer diagnosis and survival. As a result, large groups of cancer survivors return to the labour market every year, although this is not always easy. International research shows that the presence on a CV of a work break due to cancer is effectively detrimental to recruitment opportunities. Those who present themselves with a cancer experience are estimated to be physically less strong, with more risk of disease in the future and giving rise to changes in the workplace, with higher costs as well. Especially the fear that those who have had a cancer experience will have new absenteeism recorded, explains the worse chances of applying. At the same time, they are also seen as more motivated than those who do not have a gap in their CV, which represents an opportunity for improving the working culture. Compared to other candidates who for other reasons have a gap in their CV, such as a previous depression, a family reason or unexplained work interruptions, only the stigma of higher chances of absenteeism remains. Compared to them, former cancer patients have better recruitment opportunities. Among other things, they are assessed higher in terms of motivation, autonomy, flexibility and stress resistance. Minister, do you have any information that might refute the prejudices of some employers? What measures do you consider necessary to strengthen the position of ex-cancer patients in the labour market? To what extent do employers play a role in returning ex-cancer patients to the labour market? How can all partners work better together to speed up the return to the labour market?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u35	Mr Anseuw, as Minister for Employment, I cannot, of course, accept discrimination in any form whatsoever in the workplace. The law of 10 May 2007 on combating discrimination prohibits direct and indirect discrimination in the workplace because of the state of health or disability. The employer's refusal to make reasonable adjustments for a person with disabilities is also covered by discrimination. In 2018, a judge first identified the effects of cancer as a disability. The employer should therefore also have made adjustments in this case. The Law of 10 May 2007 will be reviewed shortly. For questions in this connection, please refer to my colleague, Sarah Schlitz. Returning to the workplace after a health problem, due to cancer or another medical cause, is not always easy, but there are already a lot of mechanisms to facilitate the return. For example, an employee may request a visit to the occupational physician in a very informal manner prior to work to examine any adjustments to the work or work post that may be necessary. In addition, there is the reintegration path for disabled workers, which examines the return opportunities for workers to their own employer. Together with my colleague, Mr Vandenbroucke, I am currently studying how these pathways can be streamlined even more effectively and how the return to work for disabled people with a health problem can be supported through training, through work with another employer or through another form of work. In addition, as agreed in our coalition agreement, we are looking at how the various actors, including employers, but not just them, can become responsive and possibly be further supported to facilitate reintegration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u36	I welcome your confirmation, Minister, that this form of discrimination is inappropriate, like any other form of discrimination. I regret, however, that we have to conclude together that the existing measures are apparently not enough to remove many prejudices among some employers with regard to ex-cancer patients who wish to return to the labour market. So there's definitely still work on the shelf. Hence my simple question. Do you have any information that might refute the prejudices of some employers? I assume that many people returning to the labour market will do everything in their power to preserve that place and to share their stories so that many prejudices can be overcome. Those people have already been incredibly difficult: they have to rebuild their lives for a great deal after their recovery. If they are faced with completely unjustified prejudices, then their situation will only become more difficult and more dissuasive. I therefore call on you to take a closer look at what is needed more than what is already happening today, because that is clearly not enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u37	Madam President, Minister, I have already asked you a number of questions here in committee about the benefits to be paid. I won't repeat the whole story. We have been able to do this once or twice on previous occasions. I asked you a question on the subject on 12 May 2021, among other things. Your reply at that time showed that you had asked the RVA to stop systematically appealing when the court finds that it is in the interests of the rightholder. However, the regulation is what it is and it is the responsibility of the RVA to ensure that it is complied with and to use all means to that end. I shall therefore proceed immediately to my questions. First of all, the benefit and your request to the RVA to stop systematically appealing if the court finds in favour of the rightholder, it is, of course, a matter of limiting the time of the benefit. This measure is particularly activating and was still taken under the Di Rupo Government, which had the courage to take activating measures, which is in stark contrast to Alexander De Croo's current government. You have therefore asked the RVA to stop systematically appealing against decisions in favour of the rightholder and thus to the disadvantage of the RVA. My first very specific question is the following. What is the legal basis on which you rely to instruct the RVA no longer to enforce the rules in force? That does not seem to me to be self-evident. Secondly, do you intend to amend the relevant legislation? In what sense would you like to do that if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u38	Minister, my question is about the 25-year limit for entitlement to integration allowances. On 4 February, the Labour Court of Liège (Division of Namur) handed down a judgment which gave the right to an affiliate of the CSC who challenged a decision of the ONEM which refused to admit the person to the benefit of the integration allowances. The decision is based on the fact that she was 26 at the time of her application, whereas the fifth paragraph of Article 36 of the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 provides for a limit of 25 years. The main argument put forward by the trade union organisation which was taken up by the court is that the measure imposing the 25-year limit does not respect the principle of standstill. This means that the authority cannot reduce the protection offered to citizens without strong grounds of public interest, in accordance with article 23 of the Constitution. Therefore, the 2014 Royal Order, which raises the age limit from 30 to 25 years, does not respect the general interest and proportionality of the measure – I quote the court's judgment – "seriously raise a question". It should also be noted that there is no study produced by ONEM to prove the effectiveness of age limitation in obtaining integration allowances, nor even that the affected public is the target audience, i.e. "the eternal students". The Court finds that "the disadvantage caused by the contested measure is disproportionate and not reasonably justified", and that the 2014 amendment should therefore be ruled out. The person has therefore regained his entitlement to the integration allowance. Minister, can you tell me if the ONEM intends to adopt the same wise attitude as for the time limit of the insertion allowances – I refer here to the question I asked you two weeks ago – and no longer go to appeal? Since the judgments rejecting the 2014 amendment to Article 36, paragraph 5 of the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 are multiplying, do you intend to ask ONEM not to apply it anymore? Are you considering amending the legislation to remove the principle of maximum age to apply for integration allowances?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u39	Madam President, Mr Anseew, Mrs Cornet, the decisions taken by the ONEM on the basis of Article 63(2) of the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991, which led to the loss of entitlement to integration allowances for certain beneficiaries, have been the subject of an increasing number of appeals before the labour courts. In the meantime, those proceedings have led to 11 judgments of the Court of Cassation, in which the Court has consistently held that the social security funds had to be recovered in their entitlement to benefits, assuming that the Royal Decree in question did not comply with the standstill principle laid down in Article 23 of the Constitution. During these proceedings, the RVA put forward all possible arguments to defend the application of the principle of Article 63 (2). The RVA continues to apply the regulatory text, but in view of the increasingly constant case law, it has been decided that the RVA will behave in the various procedures according to the wisdom of the court. As the outcome of the procedure becomes more certain, it makes little sense to pay lawyers' fees and procedural costs. You're told by a former lawyer. The ONEM has been asked not to appeal systematically against these decisions, also in view of the consistent case law that has been established in recent months, which has been strengthened on the basis of Article 23 of the Constitution and the standstill principle. Mrs Cornet, I confirm that the same applies to the age limit for integration allowances. In this respect, I instructed ONEM not to appeal any more, given the increasing number of situations in the same direction. On the question of whether I intend to amend the legislation, I would remind you that the government agreement does not provide for any change to the current system of integration allowances. For the time being, we will therefore continue on the basis of the existing text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u40	Minister, you did not answer my question, but I understand that. I have asked on what legal basis you can instruct the RVA to stop applying applicable regulations and not to use all the means to do so. In my view, there is no legal basis, otherwise you would have said a long time ago which legislation you are referring to. That's important, because it's one or the other. You must stick to the existing rules, but you obviously do not. The Di Rupo government, of all people, felt that it was no longer normal, like me, for people to receive benefits from the moment they left school, pending a first job, and then to remain entitled to benefit for 25 years and therefore still to drop out of school. It remains to be seen whether such a benefit is in the interests of those people. That argument can also be put forward in court. We don't think it's normal, but it seems to you that school leavers can hang on a benefit for 25 years. Quite apart from the substance of the matter, it is wrong of you to sidestep the law, single-handedly, unilaterally, without a parliamentary debate or whatever, and to instruct the administration not to deal with it anymore. I do not think that this is a serious way of working, even if it is the continuation of what we have seen in many other dossiers over the last few months. Apparently, the parliamentary debate is not so important. The rules in force seem to have to be reversed in the direction that the Croo government is looking forward to. Since that way of driving isn't serious, I won't let that go. I'm going to continue with it, given the far-reaching consequences. I can think of ten other examples where you do not like the existing regulation, in any way, but simply move aside, no matter what happens. That is how it ends, because any democratic debate and any democratic control becomes impossible. That's your responsibility. I won't leave it at that. I cannot leave it at that either, because it is our duty as a Member of Parliament to exercise democratic control. You make that control impossible, but that really cannot be the intention. That is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u41	Minister, thank you for your full answers. I note that you have asked ONEM not to appeal any more in respect of age-limit disputes. This is a very wise decision, which I stress very positively. A difficulty appears. Those who go to court will get their rights back. But those who will not have access to the court, who will not have the information, who will not have the social capital to mobilize resources and go to court, those who will not be close to a union that can support them, will not have access to these rights. We are therefore going to find ourselves with a problem not only of proportionality, as the court points out, but also of coherence and fairness between the people to whom this same rule will apply, or not. It's a social setback, in my opinion. As the court said, this provision is likely to deter students from opting for long-term studies. I'm sure that's not the goal. In my analysis, it is imperative that this law be amended. We must continue to move forward in this direction. Although, Minister, I have heard that the government does not, in its agreement, provide for an amendment to the legislation, I do not think that the government also provides for a law to be applied in a way that is differentiated among individuals. Work must continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u42	Mr Minister, my questions were put a while ago, but I still want to ask them. As you know, I have often asked questions both in plenary and in committee about the late payment of unemployment benefits through the Auxiliary Cash for Unemployment Benefits (HRW). That was problematic, wasn't it? Due to the influx of files, 40 additional staff have been recruited, which has had a positive impact, but there was a problem with the practical organisation of the payout and with accessibility. The communication didn't go so well either. There was also an unacceptable delay in the HRW's handling of the files. In the long run, people were given the impression that they had to join a trade union in order to be able to obtain early benefits, which should not be the intention at all. I like to get a state of affairs. There are fewer temporary unemployed, but the workload at the HVW has remained relatively high. What initiatives have been taken to reduce the backlog? Did those 40 extra people make the expected improvement? Is there still a delay at the moment? Have structural measures been taken to improve the functioning of the HVW even after the corona crisis? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u43	Mrs De Jonge, on the one hand there was and is a great focus on human resources and organisation. New employees are trained centrally. The staff of the central administration will be mobilised to the maximum extent to support the core business. Federal officials and students are involved in basic administrative tasks. There is the possibility for HVW employees to work on a voluntary basis on weekends. A temporary central cell was established that processes the responses of the RVA and taxes for a group of offices. On the other hand, better communication with the customer, for example with the publication of a FAQ on the website, with automatic confirmation emails to the customer in a processed payment and with a new chat function. Finally, the HVW has also focused on administrative simplification and technological innovation in order to facilitate the processing of applications and payments. It concerns the scanning of electronic forms with smart software (OCR) and the introduction of an online form to allow automatic processing of applications for temporary unemployment. The process for applications and payments of temporary unemployment was partly automated, as were the payments of part-time employment. The processing of applications for full unemployment was accelerated. The customer can prepare his payment claim via an online form. The HVW has recruited a total of 74 employees, of which 40 are Dutch and 34 are French. They are trained for almost three months. At present, therefore, it is not possible to demonstrate their real impact on the organisation, but the measures taken in the context of the corona crisis also aim to improve the long-term functioning of the HVW.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u44	Minister, I find it impressive to see the catching-up movement that has taken place to ensure that the final objective, the rapid payment of the unemployed, is achieved in practice. I am therefore pleased that you will include this in structural measures for the future, so that the HVW can work very optimally and efficiently. In my questions I have always stressed that the staff have always done their best. Great progress has been made thanks to additional staff and digitalisation. I can only be grateful that this has produced results in the field of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u45	Minister, I recall that during a debate I had asked about the figures relating to employers and employees in other sectors. This has brought out a lot of positive things on the labour market. It is felt that people who come into contact with other sectors will, for example, also receive training in order to become employed in them. A lot of talent has also emerged from people who felt that they could go another way, which has made them discover other opportunities in the labour market. Clearly, this has also led to career changes. It was a huge opportunity during the corona crisis. You gave me the November 2020 figures, for which I was very grateful. After all, I got them the week after that. It concerns 1,455 employees and 1,209 employers who have made use of them. This will enable flexibility in the labour market to be included in a future labour market story. I have some questions about this, some of which have become obsolete, because the question was tabled a while ago. Will you take advantage of this opportunity to use future unemployed people in other business sectors as well? Can this be further promoted and refined in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u46	A person who is temporarily unemployed can, in principle, always work temporarily with another employer. He or she loses his or her entitlement to a benefit for the days on which he or she is employed. In the context of the corona crisis, provision is made for a measure whereby a person who is temporarily unemployed can resume work somewhere and still retain 75% of the benefit. This can be done in specific sectors where there is a risk of labour shortages. It concerns agriculture and horticulture, education, the care sector, the contact tracing centre and vaccination centres. Both direct and temporary work is permitted. The schemes have been in place since 1 April 2020 for agriculture and horticulture and since 1 October 2020 for education and the healthcare sector. They will be extended until 30 September 2021. Another scheme has made it possible since 1 March 2021 for a person temporarily unemployed for non-medical force majeure or economic reasons to enter employment in the so-called essential sectors while maintaining 75% of the benefit. We are talking about a large number of employers who are considered necessary for the protection of the vital interests of the nation and the needs of the population. This measure will apply until 30 June 2021 and will not be renewed. These schemes do indeed offer employers and employees certain opportunities, but also have their limitations. For example, it should continue to be the intention that these workers should remain available primarily to resume work with their actual employers. There is also a problem of unequal treatment, in which workers who perform the same work are compensated differently, by the fact that one worker can retain a substantial part of his benefit in addition to the wage received. Finally, if the worker is able to retain a large proportion of his benefit, there is a risk that this might encourage employers to put workers directly on too low a wage. This cannot, of course, be the intention of the measure. For the future we will see what will be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have raised a number of issues concerning the possible extension of such measures. I think it is very important to promote flexibility, because it gives people the opportunity to work in other sectors and gain experience. I would like to thank you for pointing out in your reply a number of aspects which we must take into account with due care.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u48	Madam President, Minister, on 10 May the negotiations within IBM under the Renault procedure on collective redundancies were short. A notice of strike was then filed, followed by a day of action on 12 May. Nearly 200 jobs are threatened in the IT company. A few days ago, management still refused to set objective, transparent and measurable criteria for voluntary departure processes and for forced dismissals. Since then, the unions have again unsuccessfully requested that the discussions be resumed. Minister, how do you intend to support social dialogue in this crisis situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u49	Madam President, Minister, this question was tabled a while ago, but unfortunately it is still very topical. Mr Thémont has just mentioned what it is about: after IBM had completed a first round of information and consultation, there has been a conciliation of the FOD WASO, but the situation continues to drag on. On May 13th, if I'm not mistaken, there was a strike. Then I went to the picket and heard the people there sometimes saying poignant things. While 200 jobs are at risk of being lost, they refuse to act in the spirit of the Renault Act and to establish objective criteria for dismissal. It also refuses to negotiate the social measures and framework for the staff transferred to another company. As you know, IBM is setting up Kyndryl, which will partly specialise in IT infrastructure. Workers do not, however, have any guarantee of the consequences that this will have, nor of the working conditions that will apply there. Hence the same question as Mr Thémont. What measures have you already taken and what measures will you take to correct that social consultation at IBM and to enforce the Renault Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my cabinet staff met again with the union representatives, after the failure of the conciliation conducted under the aegis of the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation. The management of the company was also met. Both sides wanted to reach an agreement, which is already an indispensable common goal. However, the road to the negotiating table is not easy, and I call for the responsibility of everyone: collective redundancies of this magnitude must be accompanied by a negotiated social plan. Will the lesson to be drawn from this case be that the conclusion of a social plan must be made mandatory? This is a question to be asked right now because it is clearly in this sense that the turn of this issue and the attitude of some around the table are arguing. I invite the parties to find the way of dialogue quickly and calmly. I would remind you that the services of my administration can, of course, be used for further conciliation. Everyone must now put their hands out, put their cards on the table and keep their commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that we can only deplore this situation. The threat of dismissal is already a difficult enough experience. We are talking about 200 families who are currently wondering if they will be among the victims of this restructuring plan. IBM really drags uncertainty and just adds pain to all these families. The company should be obliged to follow the rules laid down in the Renault procedure and to set out its intentions in a clear manner, so that this procedure is carried out in the most respectful way possible towards workers and all these families who are still facing a situation without a name. I hear you say that you are inviting the parties to return to the path of dialogue, hoping that this can be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u52	In such situations, Minister, it is in everyone's interest to re-establish dialogue and to make clear agreements. Here it is important that IBM and IBM's management also comply with the rules we have drawn up for such matters, and are laid down in the Renault Act. There must be no loopholes and ways of getting out of the rules. In this sense, it is good that you make your administration available to assist them in the dialogue. After all, it is distressing for the people concerned that they have to live in uncertainty for so long and do not know what their future will look like. What I find even more poignant is that people tell me to the pickets that IBM is still a company that makes profits, but people are being put at the door for shareholders all over the world. We're talking 200 people here. In the past, this was perhaps only the case for factory workers, and the ICT workers were on the verge, but now it's their turn. Now they are also the victims of the race to the bottom. That is why we must also pay attention to social dumping in this sector. I therefore urge that the Renault Act be strictly observed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u53	Madam President, Minister, normally I ask you questions in the Committee on Economic Affairs, but this question was passed on to the Committee on Social Affairs. In the past year, I have asked you a number of questions about rising prices. On average, food prices in our country are higher than in our neighbouring countries. A recent study by the Prize Observatory has shown this. Because of this determination, many Belgians make their purchases just across the border. Together with the corona crisis, we have also seen an advance in e-commerce, electronic commerce and online trade in general. Here too, we see that many Belgians make their purchases on foreign webshops. This is not surprising, as many distribution centres are just across the border. The reason for this is known. We have very tough labour legislation here, for example on night work. We also know high wage costs in our country. That is a pity, because that is why our consumers spend their money abroad, while our entrepreneurs, especially in these times, deserve all the support. Minister, do you recognise the problems I have outlined, namely the fact that Belgians often make their purchases abroad or that they often trade abroad, because of the very tight labour laws and high labour costs? What is your own view of that? What solutions are you putting forward? In the coalition agreement, I read that more flexible labour legislation is being developed. Has that been investigated yet? What slopes are we talking about? What other measures are you planning to take to tackle this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u54	Madam President, Ms Van Bossuyt, since 2017, there has been a derogation for e-commerce activities from the basic ban on night work. Employers who make use of this derogation must follow a social consultation procedure in order to introduce night work into their company. In 2018 and 2019, e-commerce in movable property could temporarily do so through an alternative procedure. This alternative approach will no longer apply from 1 January 2020. E-commerce activities are, of course, still a reason to allow night work in a company. From 1 January 2020, the usual introduction procedures will be applicable again, with the exception that night work for e-commerce activities can be introduced by concluding a collective agreement with only a trade union organisation in companies where there is a trade union delegation. At present, the social partners have not held specific consultations on the possible modification of the night work scheme for e-commerce activities. Night work was one of the topics discussed at cross-sectoral level in the context of the Ipa. As you know, the social agreement concluded on 8 June and confirmed today does not contain any proposal on this subject. The government agreement provides for an investigation into the causes of the limited presence of distribution centres in the context of electronic commerce. We need to learn lessons from the health crisis, which has changed both consumption habits and the way people trade at a distance. If changes in labour legislation prove necessary, the social partners will of course be involved. As legislation on working time is at the heart of industrial relations, this is an issue which is automatically within the competence of the social partners and social dialogue. After all, we are talking about nothing less than social relations in our society. As you know, this government fully recognises the importance and role of social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u55	Mr Minister, with regard to e-commerce and the derogation to night work that you referred to, there is indeed already a slight relaxation, namely that there should only be an agreement with one trade union delegate. Perhaps you agree with me or perhaps not, but things are still far too tough, for example when we look at the starting time. With us, the night starts at 8 p.m., while in many of our neighbouring countries it is 10 p.m. These two times already cause a large difference in wage costs for the employer. I am very sorry that no specific proposals have been included in the Ipa, to which you referred. If I have understood you correctly, we are now also investigating why the distribution centres are mainly abroad. I don't think there's any need for that investigation. We know the reasons for this, especially the high wage costs in our country and the very tough labour legislation. You say that there must be proper relations and sufficient balances. That's right. We must also take into account the interests of the workers, but anyone who wants to work at night must also be given the opportunity to do so. That is the problem in our country. The freedom to undertake is far too small by the rigid rules that must all be respected. Unfortunately, the corona crisis has taught us a great deal, including the fact that this has taken away many opportunities for our companies. I hope that we will take a different path in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u56	Joined Questions No 55018293C by Mr Gaby Colebunders, No 55018294C by Mrs Nadia Moscufo and No 55018295C by Mr Peter Mertens are postponed. Attached questions Nos 55018312C by Mr Gaby Colebunders and 55018313C by Mrs Nadia Moscufo are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u57	The question by Mr Colebunders No 55018316C and the question by Mrs Moscufo No 55018317C are not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u58	Mr Minister, at the beginning of January of this year I put my proposal on the special powers of social inspectors in the area of findings of discrimination on the agenda. The aim of my proposal was to simplify the deployment of mysterycalls, although within a clearly defined legal framework. After all, it is difficult to meet the cumulative conditions in force, which means that social inspectors can only apply practical tests or mystery calls in a very limited number of cases today. I have also requested figures from your predecessor, Mrs Muylle. Shortly after I explained my proposal to the committee, the discussion was postponed because you indicated that you would come to Parliament with a draft law yourself. In any case, I am pleased that you, like me, are convinced that we need to tackle discrimination based on origin, age, gender or limitation more effectively in our society. Meanwhile, however, we are six months later. How are you preparing your bill on mystery calls? What steps have you already taken and what steps do you need to take? When will you come to Parliament with the draft law? I hope that will be before the recess. In a recent hearing on long-term sick people in our committee, Professor Baert advocated extending the scope of the mystery calls to include discrimination based on disease, for example for former cancer patients. That has just been mentioned. Can you include this form of discrimination on the basis of illness in your draft law? If so, in what way? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u59	Mr Minister, practical tests in the city of Antwerp commissioned by Ghent University show once again that structural discrimination in the labour market, especially on the basis of origin and age, is frequent. I will not repeat the figures here. A comparison between different sectors shows that industry and construction discriminate less and that discrimination occurs mainly in administrative jobs. For us, research shows that practical tests are a reliable and effective tool to prove discrimination in the labour market. We now need a legal framework, so that after the no-binding sensitisation, which is already having a partial effect, regulations can be put in place to sanction hardliners. What is the state of play with the draft law on practical testing? You indicated to work on that. I interviewed you last time about the discrimination against ex-cancer patients. For me, this is discrimination based on an old disease, not only cancer, but also depression, for example. You'd be focusing on raising awareness of employers. How far along are you with that? On your recommendation, I put the question to Secretary of State Schlitz. I really think that we need to amend the legal text on the grounds of discrimination, and I myself started to make a proposal on this issue. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u60	Minister, the fight against discrimination and for a more inclusive society has been a top priority for our group for years. When the discriminatory tests, the so-called mystery calls, were launched in a previous reign, we raised the alarm from day one because of the extremely cumbersome procedure to even begin the detection of discrimination. I do not need to tell you what serious, cumulative conditions must be met in order to pass discrimination tests, which is why we previously predicted that the law would be a stillborn child. That prophecy came true, too. The first figures requested from Minister Muylle showed that there were four applications stating in two cases that no discrimination had been found. After such a small sample of samples, so to speak, it turned out that we had an instrument that did not work properly. That is why we mentioned in the coalition agreement that we will tackle this. We are going to make sure that the inspection service has more impact in order to be able to pass discrimination tests. We will remove a number of legal obstacles and, above all, it will not be and, and, if so, whether or not. On the basis of objective data, a test of discrimination can be carried out in which the test can become proactive. There should not necessarily be a complaint. There may also be other objective data such as data mining or data matching. That is very important to us. For example, we no longer place the responsibility for detecting this discrimination on the victims. It is also important that we expand the grounds for discrimination. Earlier this year, you brought a bill on this matter to the Council of Ministers. We are all full of expectations about the state of play. I assume that this will also be discussed with the social partners and that advice will also be sought from other bodies. What is the current state of play of the draft law? When can we expect it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u61	The entire government is committed to combating all forms of discrimination. In this context, there are also plans to improve the testing of discrimination. My department, as you know, has prepared a bill. This draft is currently being submitted for opinion to the various bodies such as the Advisory Council on Social Criminal Law, Unia, the Institute for Gender Equality and the Data Protection Authority. The NAR was also consulted. The draft law will then be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. As soon as we have received all the necessary opinions, the draft will be submitted to Parliament. Probably by the fall. As you know, the discrimination tests are carried out in order to detect and identify infringements of anti-discrimination legislation. All the grounds for discrimination listed in the law may be the subject of this particular power of control. The Law of 10 May 2007 on combating certain forms of discrimination lays down as protective criteria, inter alia, current or future health status and disability. In other words, these criteria fall within the scope of the discrimination tests. In addition to improving the discrimination tests, we also want to develop tools and databases to support the work of inspectors, for example by carrying out an academic monitoring of diversity and discrimination. Finally, the fight against discrimination also involves training, raising awareness and strengthening the services of the FPS WASO responsible for monitoring social law. We want to work on that too. In the recovery and resilience plan, we proposed a reform project that includes all these elements. We hope to be able to release quickly the necessary resources for their implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Discrimination against people because of their origin, age, disability or illness is inadmissible. This is not only regulated by law, but it is also detrimental to society if it does. That is why we really need to be fully committed to tackling discrimination. I am therefore pleased that this has been included in the coalition agreement. In this committee and in the Committee on Social Affairs, Work and Pensions, we were actually working on it last summer, with various legislative proposals on this subject. Then together we have argued in favour of including this in the coalition agreement. I would have liked it to have been now, a year after the start of the discussion, and therefore the new law had already been adopted. Unfortunately, this is not yet the case because you still have to wait for different opinions. We'll have some patience. Hopefully, by autumn, we will finally be able to adopt the new legislation that contains everything. However, discrimination on the basis of disease must be explicitly mentioned in the law, if necessary in the explanatory memorandum. After all, it is not clear today. You say that it is covered by discrimination, and that is positive, but it is not applied or read in this way. Since certain professors already doubt it, I think we should make it clear in the law in order to be sure. I look forward to the moment when we can jointly approve this in committee. It won't be a moment too soon. I understand that we need to focus on prevention, but I have also been working on this case for a long time, which dates back to before I was politically active, when I was a member of a minister and there is still discrimination in the workplace. We urgently need to take a dignified approach to this. I'm glad the federal government has already taken steps, but we need to improve the mystery calls. From the beginning, when Kris Peeters proposed that law, I said that we should evaluate them and amend them. That amendment was then adopted because I knew that the thresholds were rather high, but at that time there was no longer any possibility. I am glad that we can take further steps today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u63	Minister, what Mrs Lanjri is saying is correct: we too felt that the current legislation on mystery calls was not enough. My colleagues have already said that discrimination affects the disadvantaged in their being. Firstly, for those excluded, we must make much greater efforts to do so, because discrimination is still widespread. But that also applies to society, because it loses a lot of talent that it could otherwise use. In this sense, I am very much looking forward to the draft bill to be submitted in the autumn. There is, of course, a need for a number of opinions. It is true that the anti-discrimination law is currently talking about the current or future state of health, but the problem lies just in the state of health of the past. When a person is discriminated against because of his past state of health, the legislation is not conclusive enough to enforce certain matters. In any case, I am working on proposals. Of course, I am looking forward to the plans regarding training, monitoring and, above all, the draft law that will improve those mystery calls.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u64	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have already said that discrimination is causing a great deal of talent to be lost, a great deal of opportunity to be taken away from people. Mr Vanrobaeys said as well: a lot of people have the feeling that they are not part of it all the time. The stories show that it happens very often that people are discriminated against or get comments. It is about the labour market now, but it is also about other areas. That's terrible, of course. I was present at the presence of the last socio-economic monitor. It is always very interesting to see how, for example, highly educated people with a migration background in our country still have less job opportunities than a "Flemish" school leavers who simply have a secondary degree. Even those who have earned every mark to find their way in the labour market still encounter obstacles. We must dare to say: there are several explanatory factors, but of the factors that we cannot explain, we know that they are caused by discrimination. I am therefore particularly proud that, as Mr Lanjri also said, this government is pushing the fight against discrimination, that a clear signal is being given that this cannot be done and that you have already done the necessary work, and that you are now taking the necessary advice to come to the Chamber by the autumn. I think I can say on behalf of a number of colleagues that this will be a happy day for us, on which we can take this important step forward. We will then continue to monitor whether the means to combat discrimination in a more effective way have indeed been improved. Colleagues, there is indeed also a problem with regard to the state of health in the past. We are certainly a partner to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u65	Debates of the European Parliament 55018497C by Mrs Muylle lapses because she is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u66	Minister, the question dates back a while, but is still very topical and important. Our companies are still very difficult to find new labour. The number of bottlenecks remains high. There are also numerous bottleneck professions which require little or no pre-training. In the meantime, the Belgian rate of activity is 70% one of the lowest in Europe and unemployment continues to rise despite the difficult job vacancies. The fact that more pensioners will be released in the coming years than those who are leaving school will make that challenge even greater. At the same time, it will push older workers out of the labour market even faster than before, while young people with short-term qualifications will be even more difficult to get into the labour market. These two major challenges will have to be addressed in the Flemish labour market. In order to address the problem, Flemish Minister Hilde Crevits proposes that the various levels of policy should work together to eliminate the mismatch between competences and attitudes of workers and jobseekers and the expectations of the labour market and workers. That cooperation will indeed be much needed. After all, many keys to activate the inactive population and increase the level of activity still lie with the federal government. Do you intend to work constructively with the Flemish government to get the many vacancies open? If so, what are the next steps you intend to take on behalf of the federal government in this connection? What additional activating measures will the federal government take to achieve the envisaged employment rate of 80%, as stipulated in the government agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u67	Mr Minister, a number of measures under the Ipa will not help the government's objective of achieving an employment rate of 80%. The expansion of runways, the SWT and additional overtime will not create additional jobs, and certainly not contribute to the financial health of the government. However, it is vital to maintain our good social system. It is sometimes claimed that there would be an insufficient supply of work to provide jobs for everyone, but we find a number of remarkable phenomena in our labour market. For example, there were as many as 235,000 posted workers from other European countries in Belgium in 2019. These figures also show that 26 000 workers are coming from third countries, and that number is rising sharply. Moreover, it is only about the officially declared numbers and it has not yet been taken into account the possible undeclared work in certain sectors. The effective numbers may be even higher. One of the reasons for the use of posted workers is the need for work in the so-called unpopular, difficult or unattractive sectors. The social and other fraud, such as security, in these sectors is well known. In addition, no social contributions and taxes are paid on these wages in Belgium. Minister, are you aware of this worrying development? Do you still support the government's objective of achieving an employment rate of 80%? What additional measures will you take to motivate our own job seekers to take unpopular, difficult and often unattractive jobs? What other measures will you take to achieve the employment rate of 80%?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u68	It is true that the employment rate in our country is too low. It is also true that many professions are not sufficiently represented on the labour market and that there are many vacancies. However, I must point out that the picture of matching the labour market, i.e. bringing supply and demand together, is distorted by the current special circumstances and limitations resulting from COOVID-19. So we must not be blinded by today's concrete figures or ignore the underlying structural problems. In order to increase the employment rate, efforts will be needed in all policy areas and at all levels. The Länder, regions and communities have essential levers in the field of employment policy, in particular the access to the labour market and target groups, and in the field of education and training. If desired, we will support the policies of the regions and communities, if they so wish, including with asymmetric measures, but for the time being none of them has asked me to develop such a measure. We continue to work together. Together with all public authorities, we have drawn up a re-launch plan and submitted it to the European Commission. Once adopted, this should allow for a strong recovery in our economy and the labour market. Afterwards, we will organise an employment conference every year, the first of which will be devoted to the end-of-life issue. Increasing the employment rate of older workers is one of the keys to a better working labour market. Of course, the federal government will also assume its responsibility in its own areas of competence. For example, we will take various measures to encourage training, including through the creation of an individual training account and the introduction of an individual right to training. The tax system is also modernised to encourage work. In addition, particular attention is paid to the allocation of vulnerable groups to the labour markets, in particular those with a living wage, long-term sick and people with disabilities. It will also strengthen the fight against discrimination. I am aware that the objective of an employment rate of 80% is ambitious and can only succeed if all policy levels, from the European Union to local authorities, each for themselves and together do everything possible to achieve it. From the federal government, I'm reaching out to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u69	Your answer doesn't make me insanely happy. It is, of course, about the prosperity of our countrymen. It's also about their well-being and health, their happiness. An efficacy level is not an end in itself. It's about giving everyone a chance to build a good, comfortable, healthy, pleasant life in our country. A good job is of course an important part of that, with a good income. The clock is ticking. We cannot reduce the issue to a distorted image by corona measures and restrictions. You said that we should not do that, but you are nevertheless bringing in the corona crisis, while the structural problems were equally challenging even before Corona. I specifically asked you what activating measures the federal government will take. I have asked you this question countless times, and it remains the best-kept secret of the Rue de la Loi. There is always a discrepancy between the words of the government agreement and the actions of the government. That difference is only gonna get bigger. As far as cooperation with other levels of policy, such as the Flemish Government, is concerned, you say that you have not been asked to take this or that measure. I would remind you of the letter of 22 April from the Flemish Government, from Mrs Crevits, which presents very concrete challenges, with suggestions for measures and questions that require the necessary consultation. Your statement that you have not yet received a single question surprises me very much. You also announce that you will hold an employment conference every year. I can also set up a tree on that. The theme this year is the career end. Now that the Ipa is closed, the question is what remains to be discussed. The Flemish Government has asked for workable work to be done in order to keep older workers with relevant experience working longer. With the ipa, the opposite happens. There are still many examples. I remain hungry and not only am I, but 6.5 million Flemings, because it's about their well-being, their prosperity and their happiness. I will not let go of the theme and will keep knocking on the same nail and keep asking for the first activating measures, because the clock is ticking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, we understand the current circumstances. It is good to hear that you are not only looking at the covid situation, but you have actually found that there is a problem with the employment rate in general. In recent times, you have referred to your employment conference in our questions, even today. It will probably be very interesting and we look forward to it together with you, but this does not prevent us from taking activating measures now. In Flanders they are already in the hair because of the large number of open vacancies that are not filled. Several studies are available on this subject, including from the Leuven Research Institute for Labour and Society, which also contains recommendations. Everything can be traced back to the end-of-life problem. We ask that this dossier be taken up now. Not all people are lost to the labour market at 50 and not all are at the blast furnace of a steel company. The motivation to still work is the lack of workers from a certain age. They get extinct, because the job doesn't have much more to offer in terms of content, for example, or because there is too little appreciation and then there are physical complaints, which take the upper hand. The studies are there, but the political will to work with them is doubtful. We continue to study in Parliament on matters that we already know all about, but we do not want or can do anything about it anymore. That is the unfortunate summary of the lack of policy identified.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u71	Madam President, Minister, tomorrow, 23 June, is Mantelzorg Day. My question had been put before, but this is convenient. There are a total of 800,000 carers. That concern is something that usually overwhelms them. When someone gets sick, or when a child with a disability is born, that's something that surprises you and then you have to figure out how to combine care and work. For many people, that combination is very difficult. I had tabled my question from the observation that we are almost a year away. After all, it has had a lot of groundwork to arrange for the recognition of the carers and it has taken more than a year to get their benefits in order. Since we are now a few months away, I was wondering what the situation was. In the meantime, I have heard from you that you will increase the number of months per person in need, which, of course, I can only welcome. What is the state of play and what ambitions do you have in relation to family leave?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u72	Madam President, Minister, it will indeed be Mantelzorg Day tomorrow. It is good that we can ask that question on the eve of that. It's 800,000 Belgians. My former colleague, Anne Dedry, asked Hasselt University during the last parliamentary term to calculate the economic value of all those caregivers in our country, which turned out to be EUR 22 billion on an annual basis. That is the amount that our country would spend on caregivers and the like if the free helping hands of those caregivers were to disappear. Of course, they do not only deserve applause tomorrow at Mantelzorg Day, but also a better structural framework. We are pleased that a recent decision has been taken to extend family leave from 1 to 3 months per person in need of care, albeit still with a maximum of 6 months per caregiver over the entire career, but this is, of course, a step in the right direction. I have a few more questions. How many carers were recognised by the mutualities in 2020-2021? How many of these include family care, either full-time or part-time in the form of one fifth or one second? Also very important, what is the distribution of male-female in these figures? Do you think it would be appropriate to grant access to this scheme to self-employed persons who have been recognised as family carers, on top of the family carers to which they are already entitled and which is similar to the time-credit with motive for workers? This could also be an important step towards equalising the social rights of workers and the self-employed. Do you think it would be appropriate to be able to take at least part of family leave a day so that it complies with the European Work-Life Balance Directive? I would also like to have the time frame for enlargement, knowing that there is still the possibility to go up to six months. This is a very important step that is now being taken to move towards enlargement by three months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u73	Madam President, Ms Vanrobaeys, Ms Willaert, in January 2021, around 6,000 people were recognised as caregivers. I refer you to the Minister for Social Affairs, Mr Vandenbroucke, for more information on these figures. Since the beginning of the measures until April 2021, day with the latest available data, 151 persons have taken up household care, of which 33 are full-time and 118 are part-time. They represent a budget of almost 22,000 euros and nearly 70,000 euros respectively. The statistical service of the RVA does not have data on the number of patients. These figures show that the system is currently insufficiently used. In the current legislation, care leave is limited to one month per person in need and six months throughout the worker's career. One worker can therefore currently only be granted one month's leave to take care of the person he or she is taking care of. In such a system, the six-month option will be reached de facto throughout the career only if the employee is recognised as a close care provider of six different persons. However, the non-profit association Les Aidants Proches and the National High Council for Persons with Disability report that in reality carers never help six different people. In most cases this is limited to one or two persons. I have therefore tabled a draft from the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs to extend the time which the caregiver can devote to a person close to his heart in order to better implement the regulation, more according to the spirit of the Members of Parliament. The government has approved the KB and we are now awaiting the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u74	If you look at what carers represent according to studies and the measures we take for them, you will see a huge discrepancy. However, various associations and civil society are told that the carers are having a hard time. Some carers are retired and will need support in other areas, so that they do not feel that they are alone in their care. However, if you have to combine this with work, it is very difficult. However, I do not see that in these figures, especially in view of the waiting lists, which are mainly available in Flanders if a child with a disability is to be partially absorbed in an institution. The step that is now being taken by working per person in need of care is already a step forward, but we will have to evaluate the regulations on a regular basis and see if they do not need further adjustments to meet the needs of the carers. Tomorrow we will put them in the blooms because they are invaluable, not only for society in terms of cost, but certainly for all those who take care of them every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u75	Mr President, if we look at the numbers and amounts going to family care and compare them with the gigantic figure I mentioned in my question, then we can only conclude that we are still doing too little for those people. In Flanders people often talk about the socialization of care. It is a good principle in itself that people can be helped by their neighbours as much as possible in their own environment, but we must not abandon those people, because otherwise it will be a pure saving operation and we must not waste any other words on it. That is a policy which we certainly do not choose. The extension to three months is very good. We will have to monitor whether it is more used by the caregivers. Of course, there is no commerce of carers. It's been ripped off that carers would accompany incredibly many people. This does not appear to be the case in practice. One doesn't just become a caretaker. That surprises you, as Mr Vanrobaeys says, and we simply need to support those people. You did not answer my question about the self-employed. I suppose we will come back to that again, because we consider that to be an important point. In certain care situations, it may also be appropriate to take care leave per day, for example to take care of a lover who is staying in an institution, such as a child with disabilities, and to work at home. That is also worth looking at, but I am pleased with this step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u76	Colleagues, I remind you of the timing!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u77	Within the European Union and through enlargement in our country too, a new type of posting has made rapid progress in recent years, namely that of workers of non-EU nationality. These are mainly active in the transport and construction sector, as we have already discussed. It is mainly companies located in Poland, Slovenia and Portugal that employ workers from Ukraine, Serbia, Northern Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina or Brazil through secondment, issued by the EU on the basis of very flexible migration rules. There have been quite a few testimonials about fraud and social dumping in the employment of these workers. The European trade unions of the construction sector have recently raised the alarm. In Belgium, 11% of posted workers came from third countries in 2019. In 2019, 26,000 employees were employed in our country with no less than 200 nationalities. In 2008, they were only 5,000 employees. In this way, we are not only circumventing our migration rules, but risk undermining our own labour market. Please note that no social contributions are paid for these workers in our country, but in the country of temporary employment. If, in Belgium alone, more than 235,000 workers are employed through posting, then our labour market is fundamentally wrong. And so these figures only concern the well-known employees. We can assume that there is also undeclared work. Minister, how many posted workers were active in Belgium in 2020 and how many were of non-EU origin? Have you been aware of any more abuses in this group by their employers regarding social and labour law regulations? What do your services do to actively detect this? Do you see any possibility of replacing some of these posted workers with their own unemployed and thus increasing our activity rate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u78	Mr Minister, if this government still comes to take measures to promote job creation in our country, and those jobs would be filled mainly by posted workers, it is a hypothetical situation, I know that our labour market actually does not add anything if those people do not or hardly contribute to the financing of our social security, so if they do not pay taxes here. Nevertheless, after Luxembourg, Belgium is almost the champion of posting in the European Union. In addition to the classic form of posting whereby citizens of an EU Member State are sent by a company to work on a temporary basis in another EU country, there is indeed a new form of posting. In this way, more and more people with a nationality of a third country, outside the European Union, appear to be working in our country. They mainly end up on construction sites and in the transport sector. According to the European trade union federations, the door is so wide open for exploitation. Even if I want to protect myself from unjustified generalizations, I am sure there will be something wrong with it. Are you aware of the problem that posting is increasingly being used to employ workers from outside the European Union in Belgium, without contributing to social security? The construction sector has recently raised this issue, but it is likely that this problem also arises in other sectors. Do you have any idea in which sectors this would still be the case? Do you have any idea in which countries these types of circuits are being set up and have you already mentioned this at the European level or with the countries concerned themselves? Will you take any other measures to limit this growing misuse of secondment? Will you also undertake reforms to lead more benefit recipients to these jobs and thus make actual and improper posting less attractive, so that more people in our country can get to work, who do indeed contribute to our social security?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u79	The principle of posting non-EU citizens is legally enshrined in European Union law in the context of the free provision of services. A worker authorised to stay and work in one Member State may be posted freely to another Member State. The granting of leave to work and stay is the exclusive competence of the home Member State. In 2020, according to the data of the RSZ 223,100 foreign posted workers were registered in the Mimosa database for at least one day, of which 45,206 non-EU nationals. Over the last few years, labour inspectorates have been increasingly confronted with the problem of posting non-EU citizens who do not have the right to stay and/or work in their home Member State. Illegal employment of foreign workers through companies posting workers is usually accompanied by fraudulent residence documents, false A1 certificates for social security legislation and non-compliance with working conditions and wages. Both the RSZ inspection and the inspection of the Social Laws supervise foreign companies that employ workers in Belgium and are particularly active in the fight against social dumping. They work to develop expertise on the detection of fraudulent documents, including with the Foreign Affairs Office, the regional inspection services as well as with the authorities of the countries sending workers. The construction sector is undoubtedly the most affected sector. The fraud phenomena can be found in sectors such as transport, metal construction, electrical installation and petrochemicals. Moreover, the focus of the checks carried out during the period from 31 May to 6 June 2021 under the Impact Action Days Labour Exploitation was on the construction sector and on the exploitation of third-country workers seconded from Portugal, i.e. non-EU countries. The same phenomenon is reported by monitoring the social laws concerning Bosnian, Kosovar and Serbian workers through Slovenia, Turkish workers through the Netherlands and Germany and workers from Brazil and Guinea-Bissau through Portugal. This issue has now been raised in our contacts with the European authorities and the national institutions in other Member States. The government is therefore also actively involved in the development of the European Labour Authority and supports the creation of a social Europol responsible for monitoring the posting of workers at European level. You are well aware that tackling social dumping and social fraud remains a priority, including by carrying out rigorous and dissuasive controls, both through the inspection and through the work audit. Therefore, the number of inspectors will also be gradually increased. In so far as the question concerns a possible limitation of the number of workers posted to Belgium from outside the European Union, it falls within the competence of the regional authorities as regards work permits, and within the competence of the State Secretary for Asylum and Migration, as regards access to the territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for your figures. It is not, of course, because posting can legally, that we should also facilitate it. You yourself point out that there are still many possibilities for our country to make things more difficult and certainly not to facilitate. 223 000 foreign workers, of which 45,000 from non-EU countries is a spectacular increase. In 2019 we spoke of about half. In 2008, we spoke of 5,000 people. So I think it is certainly a phenomenon that is being sued by a number of trade unions and trade unions, because it is rising sharply and contains a number of well-known phenomena. You yourself pointed out that this is happening through Portugal, Bosnia, Kosovo, the Netherlands and so on. It is often also about illegal employment and the non-compliance with a number of wage conditions and many other working conditions. Only through a rigorous approach can we put an end to this fraud and other malicious practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u81	Mr Minister, once again, it is not because posting is being used that fraud is by definition being committed, so this generalisation is not correct. We cannot ignore the fact that many of these jobs, for example in the construction sector, are filled by posting because we do not find enough people in our country. That is an important part of the solution and was also the last part of my question: how can and do you want to ensure that more people in your own country who are receiving benefits today or are inactive for any other reason are led to those jobs? Thus, actual and improper posting becomes much less attractive and less necessary. There's one of the keys. After all, it is difficult for us to stop posting, because it will literally stop a lot of construction sites, to name just one sector. That can be anything but the intention. So we really need to go to solutions. It's a matter of push and pull. On the one hand, we must strive at European level to shorten the period in which we can be posted, and on the other hand, we must provide an alternative to meet the needs of our labour market in different sectors, such as the construction and transport sector, in a different way, in particular by leading domestic inactive people to these jobs. One cannot do without the other, for the sake of clarity, because otherwise the economy will fall silent in our country and we cannot afford that, especially after the last Corona year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u82	Question No 55018580C by Mrs Cécile Cornet is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u83	Minister, one of the corona measures decided by the government last year was to stop reducing unemployment benefits. In a first phase, the degressivity of the unemployment benefit was frozen from 1 April 2020 to 31 August 2020. I admit that in the first weeks of the lockdown it was physically impossible to find a job as a job seeker. In the meantime, this has changed slightly, but it has recently been decided to extend the suspension of the degressivity until 30 September 2021. This means that several reductions in unemployment benefit were suspended by 18 months. This temporary freeze on the degressivity of unemployment benefits is detrimental to the affordability of social security and is very ineffective. Do you intend to suspend the degressivity further after September 2021? What parameters do you think are important in making that assessment? On what objective data do you base yourself on whether or not to extend a measure? What has so far been the budgetary cost of extending the suspension of degressivity since its introduction? What is the estimated total cost of the suspension of degressivity?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u84	Madam Chair, my question concerns the freezing of degression during maternity leave and the Minister's opinion on Bill 1871. Indeed, when our committee began work on Bill 1871 to eliminate the degression of unemployment benefits during maternity leave, the committee asked for an opinion. In this one, Minister, you welcome the intention of the bill, as you did in the press in March, and you indicate that your cabinet is working on a similar royal decree entitled "Royal Order Amending Article 116 of the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 regulating unemployment concerning the extension of periods of compensation with the period covered by maternity allowance" I in turn welcome your intention, and hope that this change in the law will be as effective and complete as possible. In your opinion, you mentioned contacts with the Management Committee of the ONEM and Minister Vandenbroucke. Minister, can you tell me what the exact content of the text in preparation is? What was the opinion of the Management Committee of the ONEM when it considered the first text in April and the second version on June 16? What is the content of the ongoing discussions with Minister Vandenbroucke to ensure that INAMI regulations are adapted to make the freezing of degression effective? What is the schedule you are considering?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u85	Minister, my question is very similar to that of Mr Cornet. We are dealing with absurd discrimination, which we simply cannot understand. We have tabled a legislative proposal on which you have given a positive opinion. You have already mentioned in the press that you will be working on a solution. Several bodies have already issued positive opinions. Of this, I would like to highlight the opinion of the Equal Opportunities Council for Men and Women, as it calls for retrospective work, until the time when the degressivity was strengthened, in 2012. I'm not sure that's part of your plan. We very much look forward to information on the state of play of your initiative in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u86	The Government has decided to suspend the degressivity of unemployment benefits until 30 September 2021. The government has not yet taken a decision on the extension of the measure after 30 September. The RVA estimates the real additional costs for the freezing of the degressivity until 31 May 2021 at 140 million euros. The additional costs will be € 356 million by the end of 2025. Of course, these costs are gross and new revenues are not taken into account, especially in the tax field, such as additional VAT revenues. As far as the degressivity of unemployment benefits during maternity rest is concerned, I can say the following. I am currently working on a draft royal decree to amend the unemployment regulations so as to freeze the degressivity of benefits during maternity leave. This text is almost identical to the one discussed by your committee when it amends Article 116 of the Royal Decree of 24 November 1991. This project was submitted once to the Management Committee of the ONEM. He issued a shared opinion on April 1, 2021. However, in discussions that followed the passage before the Management Committee of the ONEM, it became clear that the objective of the draft Royal Decree could not be fully achieved through the sole amendment of Article 116 and that an amendment to the INAMI Regulation should also be considered. It is only through this double intervention at the level of unemployment insurance and sickness and disability insurance that the worker will be able to benefit from an effective freeze on the degression of her unemployment benefits both during and after her maternity leave. I therefore entered into discussions with my colleague Minister Vandenbroucke, who was immediately convinced of the need to act on these two points. Minister Vandenbroucke presented his draft text to the INAMI Management Committee on June 16. For now, I haven't had a chance to get a return yet. I have no doubt that in the coming hours my office and his office will have contacts on the position of the INAMI Management Committee on this proposal. With regard to your question on the retroactivity of the measure, this possibility should be analysed with the competent administrations. After receiving advice from ONEM and INAMI – which will be the case in the next few hours – the issue of retroactivity will also be on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u87	Mr President, my question was, of course, different from the question put by the other two Members. In my view, therefore, it is unfortunate that they are being merged. However, I have two more questions for clarification. I understand that the budgetary cost is EUR 140 million until 31 May. Is that 2020 or 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u88	2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u89	What objective parameters do you want to use when considering the suspension of degressivity? You didn't answer that question. I'd like to give you a chance to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u90	This fits into a general pact on social, economic and fiscal support in consultation with my colleagues in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u91	Minister, as Minister for Labour, I assume that you will make a proposal to your colleagues, but you do not seem to want to look at your cards. So we still have guessing to the parameters that are used, which is important. I find your answer a little strange. Perhaps no parameters are being used and it is merely a political bargaining between different approaches in the government about any aid measure. One gets this, the other gets it. I think it would be a bad thing when it comes to the degressivity of unemployment benefits and the activation of those benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u92	Minister, thank you for your answers. This discrimination faced by unemployed mothers must be eliminated. It is the sense of history to suppress this degression during maternity leave. That is the objective of the bill that I tabled with my colleague. If you achieved this by other means, I would be truly satisfied with it. I encourage you even on this path, especially since you seem to indicate that you can do it completely. Like me, you have read that the League of Families, the Council of Equality and the Secretary of State have given a very positive opinion. I hope you learn from it. I also hear that Minister Vandenbroucke is convinced of this. That's good news! In addition, contacts continue with ONEM and INAMI. In any case, I can assure you, Minister, that I will be strictly attentive to the content, to the actual implementation and, above all, to the planning. I'll look at you over your shoulder...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u93	Definitely!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u94	...and I will question you regularly so that this bill can take effect, whatever the way it is. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Cornet. What a psychological support!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u96	Minister, I would just like to add that not one woman but two will look over your shoulder to bring the dossier to a good result.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u97	Minister, thank you for your presence and perhaps see you soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u98	Thank you, Madam President. I would also point out that my cabinet and I are at the disposal of parliamentarians if they wish to turn oral questions into written questions, so that we can anticipate the procedures of the Registry and of Parliament and that everyone can get an answer as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic522x.u99	You're right to call him back, Minister. Question No 55018697C by Mrs Cécile Cornet is transformed into a written question, as is my question No 55019166C.
