ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, some of my fellow Members are a little concerned because we started a little later than originally planned and we would therefore be delayed in the examination of the questions submitted, but I suppose we will deal with all the questions as always very smoothly and smoothly, but also very thoroughly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u2	Mr President, I will, of course, do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u3	Mr President, Secretary of State, thank you for saving us the details of the incident that preceded this meeting. On the other hand, I hope that you will not ignore the answers we expect from you today, particularly in this first important topical debate on Frontex. On 27 April, the European Parliament rejected the discharge of Frontex's 2019 budget. If this vote does not affect the current functioning of the agency, since it concerns a budget already implemented, it is nevertheless a very strong political signal against an agency that we talk about very often, if not too often, in this committee. Indeed, when this topic is addressed, it is rarely in praise. In addition to the accusations of participation in real pushbacks in the Mediterranean - to name but a few of the human rights violations she is accused of - the agency also made talk about her during the shipwreck of a boat carrying 130 people, due to her failure to react. More recently, a file drawn up by several media outlets - among others, Libération and Der Spiegel - called into question it in the Libyan regime's resumption of some 11,000 people trying to cross. You have already indicated in this committee the importance you attach to respect for human rights in migration policy. From this point of view, and in view of the new grievances raised against Frontex, I would like to ask you the following questions, which are essential. Does our country still participate in "Frontex flights" as part of the return policy? Since the beginning of the health crisis, how many flights has Belgium taken part in, how many people and to which destinations? In view of the questions raised, which are not at all anodizing, as regards the respect of human rights by Frontex, is it envisaged to decide on a moratorium and therefore to suspend Belgium's participation in these flights? Failing that, what effective and concrete means are being deployed by our country to monitor and ensure full respect for human rights in the implementation of expulsions by this means, if we should prosecute them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, last time I asked questions about Frontex's pushback policy following the report of 11.11.11 and Refugee work. Since then, there have been revelations about Frontex. I read a first revelation this week in an article by The Guardian, in which a terrifying account is made of illegal pushbacks by European countries, preventing asylum seekers from applying for asylum. Journalists came to the conclusion, on the basis of an analysis of reports from UN agencies and NGOs, that European countries, supported by Frontex, have prevented at least 40,000 refugees from entering the EU by 2020. It's bad to say, but 2,000 refugees died in the Mediterranean due to the pushback actions. You know that pushbacks are illegal under Article 33 of the UN Refugee Convention. Of course, the Frontex Code of Conduct is also committed to this. The Guardian's article focused on the different ways in which the pushbacks are carried out by the relevant European countries such as Greece, Spain, Italy, Malta and Croatia. These countries would pay non-EU countries and use private vessels to intercept boats in distress and drive passengers back, including to Libya, where they would then end up in detention centres and be at great risk of being tortured. There is also repeated mention of pushback operations by people who were beaten, robbed, stripped at the border or left at sea. We have also read in the newspaper that a tragic disaster occurred on 21 April this year, killing 130 migrants in the sea after they had been shipwrecked off the coast of Libya. A very problematic fact is that a Frontex plane had seen the people in distress at sea, but Frontex decided not to intervene. Actually, we drowned those people. That is unacceptable. Mr Secretary of State, are Frontex's pushback policy and involvement also on the agenda of the next Council meeting? If not, will you yourself raise the problem of pushbacks with your European colleagues? Who do you think is responsible for the deaths of the 130 migrants who died at sea? Will Belgium call Frontex to account for this? What's your opinion on that? Do you consider the position of the Director of Frontex, Mr Leggeri, to be sustainable in the light of these facts? As you know, Belgium is represented on the Management Board of Frontex. Can you explain exactly what the mandate of Belgium's representation in the Management Board means? Can Belgium demand the resignation of that director?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u5	On 28 November 2019, Parliament gave a mandate to the previous government to implement the Malta Agreement through a resolution adopted by a large majority by the House. What is your position on this resolution? Can we hope that Belgium will finally participate in the Malta Agreement?"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, on 4 March 11.11.11 and refugee work in Flanders published a report on the European pushbacks of migrants. In 2020, the counter reached 20,000 pushbacks. The actual figures are undoubtedly many times higher. The Belgian State also co-finances the pushbacks in Libya, where the Coast Guard is paid to intercept refugees and bring them back to the mainland. There they are dumped into the degrading conditions of Libyan detention centres. Murders, rapes and torture are commonplace. These NGOs set out two things about the pushbacks: they have become a structural part of European migration policy and violence runs through it like a thread. Several EU Member States are also participating. In Croatia, for example, violence is committed in 60% of pushback cases. Europe doesn't just go free. Frontex should report human rights violations, but it does not. Only three violations were reported by Frontex in 2018. Frontex's responsible body appears to be undermanned and is most likely actively countered with impunity as a result. So there is a culture of silence about the use of violence by Frontex. Therefore, 11.11.11 and Refugee Work Flanders advocate an independent monitoring mechanism to protect human rights at the borders, a reset of Frontex, more secure and legal access roads to Europe and a reset of European cooperation with Libya. Mr Secretary of State, on 11 March you took part in the EU Home Affairs Council. Belgium is also a member of the Frontex Management Board. What views did you defend on the Council? Did you ask for unconditional and immediate protection of human rights at European borders? Are there any Member States condemning the pushbacks? As a member of the Frontex Management Board, will you call for a thorough review of the organisation, given the frequent scandals and lack of operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u7	Mr President, Secretary of State, the problem of drowning has already been clearly and comprehensively illustrated. A number of horrible events in the Mediterranean over the last few weeks have made it clear once again that there is an urgent need for better agreements on rescue operations. We must, of course, make lasting agreements with the countries of origin and the transit countries. This presupposes that agreements must also be made with the countries where the boats leave, in connection with the rescue operations. There is also a need to make arrangements to improve EU-wide operations. The government agreement on these rescue operations stipulates that European institutions, such as Frontex, must also respect fundamental rights, as well as international obligations, including SAR and Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS). Our country will defend these principles in the negotiations on the upcoming EU Pact on Migration and Asylum. We understand that there is a European Contact Group on Search and Rescue, composed of EU authorities, of which Belgium would be part. The aim of this contact group is to ensure coordination between Member States and to exchange information. Is it true that Belgium is part of this? We have also understood that this contact group would ideally consist of a migration expert per country, whatever that may be, as well as an expert in rescue operations, preferably department heads. Who is part of this working group for Belgium? What is the Belgian position? Which direction are the calls going? What other forums are there currently talking about rescue operations and what is the Belgian attitude there? Which direction are the calls going?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a subject which we all believe we should discuss. It is therefore a good thing that questions are being asked about this. We must make a clear distinction between Frontex's various tasks. Belgium and the Foreign Affairs Office work well and closely with Frontex in the field of return operations, for example. Furthermore, Frontex also has many other border surveillance missions, including in the Mediterranean, in which Belgium and my services are less directly involved. As regards the first aspect, Belgium participates in Frontex's special flights, which are evaluated positively. In 2020, 58 people were deported via 11 Frontex flights: 7 Guineans, 2 Nigerians and 49 Albanians. The latter left Lille via Collecting Joint Return Operations (CJRO). In 2021, Belgium has already taken part in 6 flights. For example, 10 people have already been deported: 2 to Afghanistan, 1 to Albania, 2 to Guinea, 1 to Kosovo and 4 to Russia. The execution of joint special flights is subject to applicable international and European conventions, regulations and directives. If Belgium participates in Frontex flights, the follow-up is carried out by the General Inspectorate of the Federal Police and the Local Police (AIG) and aims to improve the functioning and organisation. Accompaniers have completed FReM (Forced-Return Monitor) training and follow-up is planned. This training, which is organised in collaboration with the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, aims to create a uniform level of quality at European level, based on respect for human rights for the monitoring of forced returns. AIG is actively involved in the FreM project and is involved in the development of a guide for escorts on human rights and the role of the observer during forced returns. The AIG does not participate in all JROs but tries to monitor these flights as much as possible. Frontex fundamental rights monitors, the Fundamental Rights Monitors, are always present on every flight. For the Collecting Joint Return Operations, it is the country of origin that provides the escort. These escorts have also undergone specific training for this purpose. Frontex has a complaint mechanism in place. Mrs Platteau, in reply to your question, I would like to clarify that the Frontex operations taking place in the Mediterranean area help to tackle different forms of cross-border crime and to monitor Europe's external borders. Operations at sea also include other tasks, such as monitoring pollution and illegal fishing. Let me also make it clear that there is no such thing as a mandate to take pushbacks or to violate international law. As I have explained several times in this committee, the accusations are being investigated at different levels and so far there has been no evidence to the contrary. That investigation is of prime importance. The agenda for the next Council meeting, under the Portuguese Presidency, is still under preparation, so I cannot give any further details on this. The news about the drowning death of 130 migrants in the Mediterranean has made a profound impression on all of us. Human life is precious and must never become the focus of political calculation. There is currently uncertainty as to the exact circumstances in which this tragedy occurred and whether there are any survivors. The boats were in the vicinity of the Libyan coast and there were no other ships in the immediate vicinity, for example because of the very bad weather. I hope that the specific circumstances in which this tragedy could take place will become clear very quickly. However, it is clear that there is a need at European level for a new policy on asylum and migration, including a strong response to trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. A stronger common European policy is an important spearhead, including in the Belgian coalition agreement. Belgium stresses the need for this at every European summit. The common goal of all of us must be to prevent such tragedies in the future. A stronger common policy will make an important contribution to this. As far as the question of Mr. From Smet, as I want to examine the issues of trafficking in human beings and boat crossings in the context of the wider debate of the Pact on Migration and Asylum, I do not foresee Belgian participation in the Malta agreement at the moment. I have not yet dealt specifically with the issue of rescue at sea with Commissioner Johansson. On the other hand, our country is represented in the European Contact Group on Search and Rescue. Mr Segers, this brings me to your questions. After consulting the various administrations, Belgium has decided to be represented by the federal police and the management-general Shipping of the FPS Mobility. This group meets twice a year. A first introductory meeting took place at the end of March and was intended to discuss the mandate and procedural elements of the group. You know that rescue at sea is a national responsibility and that the European Union is not competent in this area. One of the main objectives of the group is therefore to coordinate these national rescue operations and clarify the national interpretations of international law. Belgium regretted at the first meeting that the group concentrated only on the Mediterranean and did not discuss the problems of small boats in the North Sea, for example. Mrs Daems, the workings of Frontex were not on the agenda of the last Council meeting. The European Commission and the Member States condemn these pushbacks, which are prohibited under international and European law. The position of the Director of Frontex is not immediately on the table, due to the absence of a formal letter of formal notice from Frontex. A possible reform of Frontex will not take place through the Management Board, which is not competent for this. This requires an amendment of the Frontex Regulation. The Belgian position within the Management Board is represented by the federal police, which of course falls within the competence of Minister Verlinden.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, I am obviously very pleased to see that you, like the Belgian State, are attentive to Frontex's behaviour. Europe is, and Europe has not acted out of cheerfulness. If it has taken these steps towards Frontex, it is because there are serious questions about the attitude of this agency. When I read on Frontex's website that "respect for and protection of fundamental rights are at the heart of all Frontex's activities. Before being deployed, the Agency's staff and the national agents involved in Frontex's operations receive training on fundamental rights and access to international protection", I wonder. I'm really wondering. I hope that's not just what we could call "cosmetic" at Frontex. While I am convinced of the importance of this mission entrusted to Frontex, I am also convinced that this task of protecting the borders must be carried out with respect for all, and in particular for all migrants who will be forced tomorrow, by law-based decisions, to be expelled or returned. All this must always be done, in any case, with respect. I really count on you and on our Belgian State to ensure this and to take the necessary steps, if necessary, towards Frontex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u10	Mr President, Secretary of State, you say that Europe may have failed. However, I would like to emphasise, including to the other Members, that Europe is, of course, the Member States. So that includes us; that is Belgium too. So we also have a responsibility for this European agency, and we must not just shove it away from us. You have explained that Belgium is working directly with Frontex for the return but not so much with regard to border surveillance. However, I am also asking questions. It is true that Frontex has no mandate to take pushbacks. That's why my question was about illegal activities. You state that the charges are being investigated. So you are not going to say anything about that. Are you saying it's not true what the NGOs write in their reports and what the journalists write? You gave a vague answer and a vague explanation about the 130 migrants who drowned. Who is responsible for this? Is the bad weather an excuse for Frontex to explain why it did not intervene and did not take rescue action? It is important that we clarify this. You yourself point out that rescue at sea is a national competence. However, Frontex has a coordinating role. We can certainly also look at the agency in this respect and see who has been responsible for the tragedy that has taken place so that those responsible are called upon to do so. In your answers to my questions about the director and the position of the director, you indicate that the reform will not be done in the Management Board but in the revision of the regulation. I don't know if that's really gonna be a solution. Other Members have also referred to the culture at Frontex, where what is stated in the rules, in the code of ethics and in the regulations is not always followed. Perhaps our country should give a stronger signal in this respect. The European Parliament is now sending out a clear signal. The Green Group and the Socialists have also requested the resignation of the Director of Frontex. Maybe we need a signal like that. I hope that at your next meeting with your colleagues in the Council you will certainly put the concerns on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u11	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to stress once again the seriousness of the situation at European borders. As Mrs Platteau said, this is also our responsibility for Belgium, as a European country. According to a recent study by The Guardian, since the beginning of this pandemic, more than 2,000 deaths have been reported in the Mediterranean as a result of the illegal pushbacks and I am not talking about the additional suffering caused. What has been going on at the borders for years also sets a very cynical tone under the European project which many European leaders are so keen to sell. Human rights are being violated because there is no coherent, inclusive and joint European migration policy. People on the run must be protected. We will continue to monitor this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u12	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I note that the federal police and the Directorate-General for Shipping are part of the European Contact Group on Search and Rescue for our country. I am surprised at the fact that no one in your department seems to be represented in that composition. You have been informed about the composition of this Contact Group. This proves, I believe, that the link with this might be better. Given the issues covered and the implications for migration, we also want you to be well informed and to be able to steer the content towards the coalition agreement. We are counting on you, in accordance with the government agreement, to steer the Belgian position in such a way that, in accordance with international law, we reach lasting agreements with countries of origin and transit countries and that on the EU side international law, including SAR and SOLAS, is always respected. I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u13	Mr President, I think we can react in a topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u14	That's right. Please excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u15	Mr President, I just wanted to recall, and I think the Secretary of State knows, the exciting discussions we had during the negotiations on the formation of the government. We have been able to exchange different views, but there is one on which we have agreed and which has been included in the government agreement, that Frontex, like other agencies, must respect fundamental rights. This means that although there are nuances in a seven-party agreement - some are happy and others are disappointed - this conditioning of Frontex's respect for human rights is well reflected in the government agreement. And therefore, it is more than time to worry about the many reports from very credible NGOs and equally credible journalists who talk about pushback suspicions. Pushbacks do not only concern Frontex. I'm wrong about something you mentioned. You have explained that we must fight against trafficking in human beings. But it is precisely because there are pushbacks at our borders that migrants take paths that are neither safe nor legal. It is precisely because there is a lack of solidarity mechanisms - and I know that you are very attentive to this in the forthcoming European migration pact - that people turn to networks of traffickers. We must develop safe and legal channels, offer temporary work visas, facilitate resettlement and offer humanitarian visas. In this way, these people will not be confronted with pushbacks in Bosnia, the Mediterranean or elsewhere. I think that is really the substance of the debate: to show voluntarism through a genuine solidarity mechanism; and not only with a European migration pact as it is sold to us: a kind of solidarity à la carte, including for expulsion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u16	Mr President, I would just like to emphasise something about Mr Moutquin and also about Mrs Platteau. Mr Moutquin, you say that we have seven parties in the government and that it is therefore sometimes difficult to reach an agreement. Whether we are seven, eight, nine, forty-eight or ten thousand, we all care about respect for international law and human rights. It was important for the investigation to be conducted to see what had happened and to be able to monitor whether international law had been respected. When I hear what Mrs Platteau has read in The Guardian, it makes me frown on the eyebrows, but we cannot rely on what is in a newspaper. It's important that there's an investigation going on. It is up to politicians to frown the eyebrows at everything they read in the newspapers and ask the necessary questions and research, but, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot expect me to say on the basis of an article in a newspaper, even though it is based on extensive material documented by various NGOs, what is good or not going well at Frontex. That must be done on the basis of an investigation and if it shows that a number of things have gone wrong, you will hear me very clearly about it. Then I won't need ten words to make something very clear with one word. As long as that is not the case, however, you should also give me and the researchers the opportunity to look at exactly what has happened, so that it can be done transparently and very correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u17	The last word is for Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u18	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your clarification. We think that research is very important and we expect it to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u19	Mr President, if I may allow myself, as I mentioned earlier at the beginning of the sitting, at the previous sitting we experienced a double frustration. First, we wanted to move forward quickly and refer to our questions as they were tabled, but this was not possible because of a technical problem. Then the meeting ended quite abruptly at 4:40 p.m. when we were going to address an issue that was terribly topical at that time. It concerned the management of the centre entrusted to a private body in Jalhay. In the meantime, questions have been re-tabled. Today, I see that I have two questions on the subject. My colleagues Mr. Moutquin and Ms. Daems tabled questions on the same subject, which makes four questions. On the other hand, if I may, my question about visiting the centres is also related to the same subject. I therefore request the topical and urgent debate on the basis of Rule 128. Indeed, everyone will understand that I really want to ask these questions. We have been waiting two weeks for answers on a truly topical subject, as evidenced by the number of questions. But obviously it is up to you, Mr President, together with the Secretary of State, to respond favourably or not to this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u20	Mr Rigot, the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber stipulate that questions must come from five political groups in order to have a topical debate. In addition, you are now proposing to bring together questions on which the Cabinet has considered that they should be dealt with separately. Your question will be answered anyway, Mr Rigot. There's no doubt about that. So let us proceed quickly, if not later we will have the same discussion about the fact that questions have not been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u21	Mrs Van Camp, I am afraid I cannot release the information you are asking about the latest state of affairs in individual files. The list of police was investigated by DVZ. More generally, I can inform you that the right of residence of persons with international protection status may be terminated on grounds of public policy after the definitive withdrawal or withdrawal of international protection status by the Commissioner-General. DVZ may send a request to the CGVS for this purpose. In any case, a person enjoying refugee status must have been definitively convicted for a very serious crime. For a person enjoying subsidiary protection, there must be serious reasons to believe that he has committed a serious crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, you merely outlined the procedure, you did not answer my question as to what happened to those 11 people involved. You said at the last sitting that the files of the eleven concerned were forwarded. So I wanted a state of affairs regarding the globality of those eleven dossiers, and I did not ask for individual dossiers. What has happened, for example, with regard to the withdrawal of the Staff Regulations? That kind of information can indeed be given.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u23	I can only say that the question submitted forces me to release individual information on the files, which I cannot do. If you have any questions regarding the figures, you can always submit them in writing. However, if you also ask for a state of affairs in individual files, I cannot give you that information. I can't release it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u24	That's absolutely untrue. I note, moreover, that you have provided this information in other files. For example, you have outlined exactly what happened to the individual file of the hate image. This is a stabbing involving 11 people under your authority. So it's perfectly possible to outline what happened to those files. If you prefer to make it difficult for me, I will put that question in writing. However, it is absolutely not a written question for figures. I'm just asking what happened to those 11 files. I guess it won't be much. I will ask you in writing and I hope that the necessary interventions will have taken place by then. You refuse to answer a question about a stabbing of 11 people from an asylum centre. I hope that you are only lacking in words and that, in the meantime, actions have been taken. I'll ask you in writing, don't worry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u25	Mrs Van Camp, thank you for your two questions on the same subject. Indeed, of the 2,422 repatriations between March 2020 and the end of February 2021, 42 repatriation attempts were cancelled due to a refused test. It was 42 attempts for 40 different people. Of these, 19 persons were sentenced to less than 3 years' sentences, 10 were sentenced to more than 3 years' sentences and 14 were given a police report for disorderly conduct. 13 persons were removed after a test refusal: 4 under escort and 9 without escort. 12 people are still locked up. An escort attempt is planned for 5 of them in the short term. So they will soon be asked to submit to a test again. For 7 other persons a proposal for escort was sent to the federal police. Of the 12 persons currently incarcerated, a total of 4 subjects received 1 return test attempt, 2 subjects received 2 test attempts, 5 subjects received 3 test attempts and 1 person received 4 test attempts. The number of test attempts corresponds to the number of removal attempts. 15 persons were exempted for suspensive appeals, for medical reasons, for a court ruling or for the impossibility of repatriating by the end of the detention period. I repeat, a covid test cannot be carried out under duress. The persons held in a closed centre are tested at the intake, i.e. on the day of the intake or on the day after the intake, and on day 7 after the intake. Until the results are known, the person concerned will be quarantined. Anyone who refuses the test at that time will remain in quarantine for 14 days. The residents in the centres are then permanently followed up. The staff is very attentive to possible symptoms. If COVID-19 is suspected, the resident will be quarantined. The risk of contamination of the inhabitants in the closed centres is therefore very low. The residents of the closed centres that are being released are very well followed up. So I don't see why they should be tested for release, in all honesty. Finally, I would like to point out that it would be of little consequence to convince the countries of origin of the need for a covid test following a stay in the closed area of the centre, whereas we would consider the test a requirement for a release. Mrs Van Camp, it is not clear to give a list of countries that require a negative PCR test. Worldwide, most of the countries impose this as a condition. Moreover, the situation is evolving very quickly. Moreover, it is possible that the country of destination does not require a test, but that transit countries or airlines impose a negative test. Many countries distinguish between entry conditions for their own nationals and persons with right of residence and other categories of travellers. This plays a role in Dublin takeovers and in bilateral takeovers. It is therefore more convenient to give you an overview of those countries that do not impose a mandatory PCR test. These include Albania, Armenia, North Macedonia, Serbia, Bosnia, Qatar, Malaysia, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Bulgaria, Croatia, Hungary, Colombia, Estonia, Georgia, Kosovo, Liberia, Montenegro, Ukraine, Russia, Slovenia, Vietnam, Belarus and Sweden. Therefore, together with my services and also in cooperation with a number of other European Member States, we will continue to consider how we can meet the operational challenge to return policy as a result of the covid crisis. After all, it should not be a reason not to send anyone back. We're working on it. Hopefully we will soon be rid of COOVID-19, so that this problem can also be completely eliminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u26	Thank you for your answer. I understand, of course, that most of the 40 people who had to be expelled after their refusal to test are being retabled for the test and that they are being repatriated, while 15 people who failed to do so were simply released, moreover, without a test. I don't think that's possible. In other words, you simply reward those involved for refusing a test, which has been motivated solely to make expulsion impossible. Those 15 people have therefore succeeded in their purpose. You say that a test is not necessary, as they are being followed. But how can you follow someone like that? I continue to follow up on the issue, because I find it very unfair that foreigners who refuse to cooperate in their repatriation should ultimately be rewarded with a release and then put vulnerable people at risk in our society without a vaccine or a test.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u27	Mrs Van Camp, here too you are asking about the exact facts of individuals in individual files. You know I can't tell you what facts were committed by the people. In reply to your written question on this subject, I have already given you a detailed account of the situation. The five parties were convicted of various facts, including theft by force, beatings and injuries resulting in permanent injuries and sexual offences. Every release from a closed center is one too many. That is why we must continue to focus on the conclusion of return agreements and better identification procedures. It is my great frustration to find that these return agreements are not what they should be. It is my great frustration to note that we cannot speak with one loud voice at European level in order to conclude better return agreements. Every person who is released from a closed center is obviously one too many. I would have liked to have seen very firm return agreements in this department with a number of countries of origin with which it has been difficult for years, but I have to say with you that unfortunately this is not always so simple. That's why we're working on it. We have a lot of contacts with different countries of origin. We hope to be able to bring about a change of pace. We both agree that, in that respect, the policy has not scored so well in recent years and that it needs to do much better. I am very satisfied with your question and we share the same goal. Return agreements need to be improved, identification procedures need to be improved. As a country, we must play a role in this at international level, which we have played too little in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u28	Thank you for your reply and clarification, Mr Secretary of State. So here you can simply give the facts about the dossier as a whole. This is not the case in individual cases, but I am very disappointed by your answer. Here too, there is an enormous impunity. People who did not have or did not have a right of residence and committed acts against public order, violence, thefts and violence resulting in work incompetence, sexual offences, are not removed but also released with an order to leave the territory. That's just a paper they can put in their back pocket. This impunity is really reprehensible. You often answer that you also wanted it to be different. You're authorized, so do something about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u29	I'm glad Mrs Van Camp is encouraging me to do something about it. We're working on that. We have had negotiations with many countries of origin. We have had talks with Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria. I think I've seen more countries in a few months than in my entire life before. I would rather not have visited many countries, because there were already return agreements and better identification procedures with many countries. I fully understand your frustration, Mrs. Van Camp. You are right to be frustrated and to note that these procedures are not good and that many countries do not cooperate sufficiently. I would have liked it to be better, too. I really would have preferred not to have noticed with you that people are being released simply because we have not reached enough agreements with a number of countries; they also knew for a long time that things were not going well. I understand that frustration and I fully agree with it. I am therefore pleased that, across the borders of opposition and majority, we all believe that we should step up our efforts, that we should do better. I can tell you that I get up every day to make things better. It's not an easy assignment. Every predecessor knows that, and every successor will know that. It's a job we have to do. Every day we must try to get countries to join us at European level and convince them that we must speak with one voice. We cannot negotiate with 26 votes with one country of origin, because we will be weaker. We have to sit on that together. Every time we send letters, we meet together, I try to convince countries, I have them with me in my office to convince those European countries to do the same. I am trying with a number of European countries to create new methods. Perhaps some European countries have better agreements with countries of origin, because it is such a carpet trade. Again, we try to think creatively about what we can do. I understand your frustration. You will hear from me that this frustration is shared. I'll try to do something about it. I hope that you realise the challenges I face and that, unfortunately, this frustration has been going on for far too long. I am glad that we are already on the same page in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u30	Mr Secretary of State, I hear you say a lot about conversations, attempts and shared frustration, but I will not be convinced until there are results of these talks with countries. You're tough in your announcements. You also say that you are trying to conclude readmission agreements and make agreements. You have also said that you will provide for sanctions in order to do so, you have our full support for countries that no longer cooperate or do not wish to cooperate where necessary. I have not yet seen any results of this until today, unless it is mistaken. However, the results ultimately count. So as soon as results are presented, you will be able to convince me, but with your words absolutely not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u31	Mrs Van Camp, a bilateral takeover request is pending for one person, because he already appears to have a residence card in another country. When examining the file of a second person, there appears to be an element missing from the police file in order to be able to submit the Dublin readmission application to the responsible Member State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u32	So, Mr Secretary of State, you are still working on the procedure. I will certainly come back to it, because it is a very wrong signal here that people without a right of residence who come here to riot and put things on stilts would not be followed. You said last time that you were focusing on the Dublin procedure. You're still working on that until today, and it's almost mid-May. I hope it will eventually lead to a result, but for the time being that is still not the case and the rioters will get away with it. I'm really hoping for results and I'm sure I'll keep following them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u33	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, this question too is very interesting and important because you also ask me about my view on the problems of the camps in Lesbos and what goes wrong there. I have already said a few times, in committee and also in plenary, that the way we tackle asylum and migration does not work for me at European level. In fact, that model is bankrupt. That is why the European countries are currently sitting together to conclude a new pact on asylum and migration. That is the only realistic model for dealing with migration in a controlled manner. The European Asylum and Migration Pact plays a key role, because in 2015 we all saw the bankruptcy of a clearly outdated model. The then government suddenly had to accommodate more than 48,000 asylum seekers in a year. That put a huge pressure, wasn't easy and wasn't the best way to handle things in a controlled manner. We must therefore fundamentally commemorate this model. This migration pact will address different aspects of asylum and migration policy. The strengthening of external borders plays a very important role in this, of course, as well as compulsory screening at the border. We are also talking about procedures that are more efficient, which are better than the reception we see today in many camps, including in Lesbos, the provision of protection, including in the regions of origin. Europe must also invest in the countries of origin and their region. We do that far too little. Europe has done far too little in recent decades. We have looked very often at what we can do in Europe, but we have asked far too little about how we can strengthen Europe's neighbours. Strengthening Europe's neighbours and the region of origin: this is the best way to contribute and tackle problems in a structural way. The fight against trafficking in human beings and smugglers is also an aspect that must and will be included in the asylum and migration pact. This is an integrated approach and good cooperation between Member States should lead to better and controlled migration. All this must be done in accordance with international law. That is also very clear in the coalition agreement and in my policy statement. That is of prime importance to us. There is a reason why international law has ever been established. We do not want to return to the past and we do not want to dwell on today's chaos. We want to move forward with a migration policy that is more controlled, better and wiser than what we have so far. In a common European policy, each Member State will have to assume its responsibility, including the countries at the external borders. However, these countries must also be helped. It is important that solidarity exists between all Member States, otherwise a common policy will not work. I will therefore continue to press my European colleagues for a thorough reform. We're at a tipping point and we need a solution. I will do everything in my power to shape this reform. I'm already working on that. You may have seen that some of the conversations that took place were somewhat more difficult in certain countries. We took care of that simulation exercise, which allows us to make certain things much more concrete. Imagine having a new model, a model in which everyone is screened at the European external border. We could thus make a much quicker distinction between someone who is really on the run and needs international protection and someone who may not need it. If we do that, we get ahead, but in order to know how many they are, we need figures and data to convince countries. Hence the simulation exercise. The Belgian approach, the Belgian tactic to move forward in the negotiating field, has been adopted and should hopefully lead to progress in the dossier. We may only be small Belgium, impacted by the rest of the world, but we still have to play our part in it. That is what we are doing in this area. I hope that we will get to the new asylum and migration pact as soon as possible, which will ensure screening, right at the borders, so that a distinction can be made there. The way that happens today is indeed not right. I therefore hope that we will be able to achieve this as soon as possible, because that will be very important for Europe and for the values that Europe has been promoting for a very long time, especially since the Second World War.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, the model you mention, with the possibility to migrate illegally, albeit to the external borders, is the model that exists today. That model suffers so many deaths at sea. So it is a model that our group will never support again. It's proven bankrupt for decades, and it's had so many deaths on its conscience. That you stick to the model surprises us. We also note that the Pact is being delayed at European level. We shall come back to that in another question. Even if it is carried out as you have proposed, it is in itself very little different from the current situation on the ground, because it continues to facilitate illegal crossing. It remains interesting to risk his life as illegal, for example at sea, to try to reach a safe haven here. It is a model that is really bankrupt and has proved all the consequences. We don't understand you holding onto it. In any case, we are preparing an alternative. I hope you will still want to examine the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u35	Mrs Van Camp, my services have not received any information from the police about specific foreigners of Romanian nationality following the VTM programme Flikken BXL in which they would have been addressed. In general, however, I can clarify that citizens of the Union, including Romanians, can legally reside in another European Member State on the basis of their national identity card on the basis of the European visa code 90 days. If they leave Belgium and come in again, a period of 90 days will start again. Given what you said in your question, that does not seem to be the case here. Citizens of the Union can therefore legally reside in Belgium for up to 90 days without having to apply for a right of residence for more than three months. As my services under the VTM programme were not provided with specific information from the police, I cannot therefore tell you whether they had complied with the reporting obligation for Union citizens. I would like to refer you to the Brussels police, who can tell us what its policy is with regard to begging. They can tell you whether pv's and administrative reports are being prepared in such cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u36	That's obvious. I'll check with the police and tell them to get me that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u37	Mrs Van Camp, Mrs Muylle, I am very pleased that you are asking very important questions. Indeed, Fedasil organised a survey from 18 to 27 November 2020 in response to a request from the Coronac Commissioner in all the centres of the Fedasil reception network and its partners. The date shows that we have made it a priority. I'll list the most important findings. A total of 30 reception centres replied to the survey. Seventy-seven residents of these centres were found to have a diploma and/or work experience in the care sector. They represented 1.5% of the adult population in the reception centres at the time of the survey. On the basis of the results, the number of persons was extrapolated to the entire Fedasil reception network and partners. This brings us to a total of 230 people with a care profile. The information on the knowledge of Dutch or French is based on the evaluation by the social workers in the reception centres, who, I feel, are able to judge this well. According to the survey, 29 percent of residents with a care profile speak good French and 21 percent speak good Dutch. This language knowledge can be explained by the fact that they have been in Belgium for some time, because the asylum procedure in Belgium takes a very long time. I believe that this is because there has been a little underinvestment in the past. The French language may also be the mother tongue of those concerned. Results of the study also showed that 78 of the people had access to the labour market at that time. Precise data on the current residence status of persons concerned are not yet available. The purpose of this survey was only to get a general picture to estimate the potential number of people with a care profile, which was done at the request of the coronac Commissioner. In this way, we map out how many asylum seekers could alleviate an emergency in our society as a volunteer or as an employee in healthcare. For example, the Fedasil reception centres have already made frequent contact with the local organisations of the testing and vaccination centres. Fedasil also makes agreements with existing voluntary initiatives. I cannot give an overview of the number of people who are now working as volunteers or employees in view of the diversity of the various bodies and initiatives. I would also like to make even more efforts in the coming years to activate asylum seekers. That is why I am so pleased with the question. By activation, asylum seekers also gain useful experience and contribute to our society, just as they want. It is all the better if previously acquired competences can be used. I don't see what anyone can stand against that. I will therefore address a number of issues, such as the recognition of diplomas and training, at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Migration and Integration, which was recently set up. In this way, we can work together on this with different levels of competence. It is not the intention to point the finger at the respective powers, but it is the intention to work together so that we can get across possible hurdles together. Mrs Van Camp, the activation of persons who are already residing on our territory does not, of course, require the recruitment of foreign workers for specific functions. The aim of the mentioned project is not to attract foreign care workers, but to explore how asylum seekers present here can contribute to the care sector. My fellow ministers are responsible for making the working conditions of the nursing staff more attractive and improved. I would like to stress once again that I am very satisfied with the question. I do not need to repeat for the thousandth time that the times of the pandemic are very harsh. It's a good thing everyone wants to do their part. I am certainly pleased that many asylum seekers have responded positively. I have also received clear reactions from people in asylum centres through the social media that they want to participate actively. I believe that we should all welcome this. Let it be an example for the future that we activate asylum seekers instead of keeping them waiting in an asylum centre for far too long and especially asking them not to do too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, we have some differences of opinion on this matter. I'll explain why. Not only is the procedure for asylum seekers in Belgium too long, which is clear from the fact that a large part of the asylum seekers are powerful in our language, but also a very large part of the asylum seekers in our country do not, in the end, have the right to a stay and no need for protection, despite the fact that they gave it to us. According to the CGVS figures, the level of protection dropped even further last month. I therefore think it is a very bad signal that people continue to say that people can risk their lives to come here illegally and that their files will then be looked at. If they have experience in healthcare, you might even think they can be used. As you know, many of the asylum seekers who have reached our areas, largely illegally, cannot be returned. In my view, such signals will only make it worse, without any guarantees regarding the recognition of these diplomas. After all, we are not going to employ people who, for example, volunteered in their country. It is not at all clear to what extent their qualifications are recognised and whether these people are also effectively employable in the care sector. However, I would certainly like to give it the benefit of the doubt, and for those people I would ask whether this has finally happened: did they have a recognised diploma, sufficient language skills and a residence status that granted regular access to our country? Did they ultimately contribute through a recognised job in healthcare? I would also like to point out that you are probably in full support of our proposal for a language test for healthcare professionals from abroad. You checked with the persons concerned whether they were able to speak the language. From this I make it clear that you think that is an important condition for a job in health care, whatever it is. So I look forward to your party's support for our bill on a language test for foreign healthcare professionals, which will be discussed in the Chamber next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u39	They are two very important aspects. The glass is half full or half empty, I like to look at it half full. Seventy-eight people have access to that labour market. That's a third. That's not unimportant. At a time when the hands are needed, people are deployed in that sector. I do not share Mrs Van Camp's opinion at all, although the knowledge of the language is of course important. In addition, I am very pleased with your answer and commitment in the long term. This is one of the points on which I would very much like to work with you. We need so many hands. That's a challenge. We had this week's discussion about the Health Care Staff Fund. We know that extra hands on the bed are about thousands of extra jobs. People are retiring. We need nurses, caretakers and caregivers. Today I see wonderful initiatives with people who do have papers here, who do not speak the language and who at the same time learn the language and become a caretaker. They can take the step from this trajectory to for example HBO5 nurse, to Bachelor of Nursing. I can call you dozens of stories of people doing this in a wonderful way in healthcare today. That's the future, too. Those projects in which language and care professions are taught are not yet enough. The recognition of diplomas for those who do have experience remains a thorny issue. I think it is very good that you also want to discuss this with the community. That's the road we need to take. We have to make sure that we give people a future. We're in the middle of a reorientation to care. It would therefore be very surprising if we did not see this reorientation to healthcare in your powers. So I am pleased with your commitment. I'm glad you'll discuss it. I'm sure we'll talk about that. That's the way we have to go.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u40	Mr. Secretary of State had another supplement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u41	Mr President, Mrs Muylle, I would like to thank you for your enthusiastic statement, which makes it clear that you are taking this dossier to heart and that it is really important to be able to involve people in healthcare. We do need additional people there who can ensure that we get through this crisis together. If people in the asylum centres have the necessary skills and experience, I do not see why we should not involve them. However, I do not understand one thing. Two weeks ago, the committee also discussed the cooperation between Actiris and Fedasil. At that time we said that it is a good thing that asylum seekers are being put to work in Brussels. In the same committee, Mr Francken said on behalf of the N-VA that it is a good thing that this is happening and that I continue with his work, because during his term of office he ensured cooperation between the VDAB and Fedasil and between Forem and Fedasil. That was a good thing back then. I'm a CD-V-er and a Christian Democrat. Sometimes I understand 'on the one hand and on the other hand', but this curve is so sharp that I have flown out ten times myself. Mrs Van Camp, I would very much like to know if there is a change of position at the N-VA, because I would like to move forward with all parties, opposition and majority. Except I need to know where and when we're gonna take the turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u42	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I leave it to my colleague who has been mentioned here personally to respond for a personal fact, if he so wishes. However, Mr Secretary of State, I can assure you of your concern that we are not on the same page in this respect. We have never said that it would be a good signal that asylum seekers are given false hope for the prospect of residence. We have never said, as I have just said, that it is wise to use people, although they do not have a recognised diploma, in a sector that would not have been helped by that. I don't see any contradiction. You're looking for contradictions where there are absolutely no. To note your answer, only very few people of that mentioned 1% will be able to be employed in care because of a lack of language skills, but also a recognised diploma, let alone a right of residence. As always, however, I will give you the benefit of the doubt and I will certainly let you have the opportunity to contradict it with figures, which, as you always wish, I will ask with written questions. We shall see who is right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u43	Mr President, Mr Moutquin, with regard to Belgium's transposition of the Sanctions Directive, like you, I think it is important that people staying legally or illegally are not exploited and are helped when they become victims of exploitation. That's the least we can say. Article 13 of the Sanctions Directive leaves a margin of appreciation to the national legislature. In Belgium, illegal residents who are exploited as workers can use the residence procedure which has been put in place to protect victims of economic exploitation. I draw attention to these two important points. Within the framework of the migration code, all ambiguities and problems of the law are currently identified. This indicates that we are moving forward in this area. On the other hand, this issue has not yet been discussed with my government colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u44	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. The covid crisis has shown the situation of some workers who are victims of trafficking and trafficking in human beings. I am thinking in particular of undocumented sex workers who, overnight, found themselves without any income and without any state aid. I let you imagine their working conditions; they kept trying to make a living so they could eat. This is also the case in construction, cleaning, hotels. In Belgium, there are tens of thousands of people who are employed and subjected to exploitation by their employers. I know that the fight against trafficking in human beings is important to you and to the Minister of the Interior. It is necessary to be able to read the most effective margin of appreciation possible. While these people may use the residence procedure, they often do not have the right information and are afraid. This fear is linked to the cell against trafficking in human beings. This is a subject that needs to be debated in this Parliament. Finally, we do not all agree on the issue of regularization of undocumented persons. But for the undocumented workers, we really need a consensus and we need to be able to objectiveize the fact that it is a necessity. I will therefore shortly encourage the committee to organise a debate on this idea of regularisation so that we can listen to the people concerned and to the economic and social actors who call for the regularisation of undocumented workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, in October 2020, I tabled a question for you on the privatisation of asylum-seeking centres, which already contained some concerns. It was precisely in October that centres were entrusted to private actors, for the management of places, including Svasta, which is a private company or a branch. We are not going to go back to the financial package that Svasta represents. For the past few weeks, I've been receiving testimony. As you know, the Free Migrations collectivity has conducted an investigation by interrogating, in particular, former and current residents about the actual reception conditions of the centre. It appears that the transfer of management from the Red Cross to Svasta has been accompanied by a marked decrease in staff, a substantial decrease in the average budget allocated to the residents' food, serious shortcomings in health monitoring, opening of additional accommodation in cottages which were considered unhealthy by the former manager, etc. It would also appear that Svasta uses the principle of community services to get residents to work at another centre in Spa for less than 1.5 euro per hour. If this practice were to be confirmed, it would be neither more nor less than a shameful exploitation for mercantile purposes. Fedasil residents are not slaves to private interests, as we know. Mr Secretary of State, do you intend to require an investigation into the management of the Jalhay centre by the operator Svasta? Are you considering strengthening controls in reception facilities, particularly those under the management of private operators? Do you consider it necessary to raise the minimum reception standards required for private operators, including the number of supervisory staff and their experience in managing collective centres? Are you in favour of a review of the complaint mechanism so that the transmission of complaints does not depend on the manager of the complaint centre but is independent? Finally, do you consider that the reception of asylum seekers can be regarded as one business as another, while the race for the benefit of these private operators inevitably comes with the deterioration of reception conditions for residents?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, I am delighted to have the answers because I have been patient for two weeks already. I will try to make a quick mix because it is now a matter of updating these questions in a debate that remains topical. I don't recall the context. It was fixed by my colleague, Simon Moutquin, a few moments ago. This is indeed the terrible issue of the management by private centres of a reception which must be humane and of quality. I was able to find out on the agency's website that an investigation by Fedasil was under way. Mr Secretary of State, what is the status of this investigation? What are the first conclusions? Is this investigation limited to the centre that is now being reported, or is it a broader investigation that also involves other centres entrusted to the private sector? In the event of shortcomings in this operator's attitudes, what legal instruments are they mobilizable? Are other centres run by the latter? Are other centres envisaged for the latter? If other centres are planned for this Svasta operator, do you envisage, pending the conclusion of the investigation, at least one moratorium? Indeed, I would not consider giving him the keys to another reception structure to be managed, when serious charges are brought against him? In a broader way, could you remind us of the binding instruments for private providers? This is not a new policy. The opening of the network to private centres is not new. In 2015, during the previous crisis, your predecessor, Mr.Franken, had largely appealed to the private sector. I remember that we had positive experiences but also singularly some experiences which, frankly, would not have to be reproduced today. How many centres are run by private providers today? What are the assessments made of their use and contribution to the network? I know that monitoring is being set up by Fedasil, and that's so much better, to check that these operators are doing their job well. That was the synthesis of my questions. I have no doubt that you're going to bring me a lot of answers. I will return later to an issue related to the Jalhay centre, including visits to Fedasil centres and other centres. Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u47	Mr Secretary of State, in this committee I have repeatedly asked you questions about cooperation with commercial players on reception centres. The revelations about Migrations Libres about the shelter of Jalhay, which is managed by the company Svasta, are shameful. Since the takeover by Svasta, the complaints of residents about all kinds of savings on the services quickly accumulated, which is not entirely surprising for a player with a profit motive. It is a real laundry list: from more than half a half of the staff to a lack of medical assistance and reduced food allowances, to the use of chalets that are completely unfit for habitation. I can quote many examples, but Mr Moutquin has already outlined them in detail. The situation is harrowing. During the acquisition by Svasta, five experienced employees of the Red Cross remained and that number was quickly reduced to two employees. Why were the Red Cross workers not kept in service? How can there be such abuse? What standards does Fedasil impose? Are the centres sufficiently controlled and can this happen unannounced? Fedasil is conducting an internal investigation into the conditions at the reception centre. What sanctions will you take with regard to Svasta if serious deficiencies are identified? Will this affect the site still to be opened in Spa?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, this issue needed to be discussed as soon as possible. With regard to cooperation between Fedasil and private partners in general, we now have six collective centres run by private operators. In 2019 and 2020, Fedasil launched two emergency public procurements to provide additional spaces to accommodate all asylum seekers. The requirements in the specifications are the same as the minimum standards of application in all Fedasil reception facilities. Private operators must meet all these requirements to ensure that reception conditions are fair for the entire host network. Private partners must also meet the same personnel requirements. The current requirements relating to the staff framework and the presence 24 hours a day and seven days a week in the centre and to the legal, social, medical and psychological support of the day are considered sufficient to ensure quality reception. Fedasil carries out monitoring visits prior to the opening of the centre by operational services, the infrastructure service and the prevention advisor. There are also periodic post-open monitoring visits by the operational services, each of which prepare follow-up reports. Financial and administrative follow-up is also provided by the General Services. A quality audit by the Quality Service took place approximately four months after the opening or earlier if necessary with an audit report including binding recommendations. As you can see, certain steps in the procedure must ensure quality and proper functioning. As far as the Jalhay reception centre is concerned, I am aware of the investigation of the situation in the Jalhay reception centre carried out by the Free Migrations collective. The allegations are serious and I take them very seriously. From the moment Fedasil became aware of the alleged facts, she immediately initiated proceedings with the private operator to demand explanations of the collective's allegations. The main points of attention are the possibility for residents to make a complaint, general support, the state of housing safety and charges relating to community tasks. This survey is limited to the Jalhay Reception Centre and is conducted through interviews with the centre's management, staff and residents. This internal investigation is ongoing. I insisted on being informed quickly. For each breach identified, a recommendation is forwarded to the reception centre by Fedasil. A follow-up on the implementation of these recommendations is also being implemented by Fedasil, as is the case with all private providers. If the investigation reveals a situation considered to be serious in this hosting structure, the necessary measures will be taken, in accordance with the applicable law on public procurement, in particular the Royal Decree of 14 January 2013 laying down general rules for the execution of public procurement. Mrs Daems, you asked a question about the workers of the Red Cross. That's the operator's business. I have no specific information on this. The operator in question applied for the management of a second centre, which was awarded under my predecessor in August 2020. The opening of the centre was put on hold pending the results of the investigation. Before making further statements on this situation, I also wish to await the results of the investigation. Emergency public procurement has created additional spaces that Fedasil needed to accommodate all asylum seekers. We all know the reasons why, at some point in 2019, these additional seats were needed. I'm not gonna call them back. I would like to point out that the quality of reception must remain high. An in-depth evaluation of the market will be carried out. I will continue to follow him closely and ensure that we draw the right conclusions. As far as the possibility of filing a complaint internally is concerned, it already exists. In accordance with the Home Law, the beneficiary may apply to the Director General of the agency if no action has been taken on the complaint by the reception structure within the time limits provided for by the law or if the resident is not satisfied with the answer provided. Finally, if he wishes, the resident may also apply to the Federal Ombudsman. I hope I've been as precise as possible and I'm looking forward to hearing your lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. There are a lot of interesting things in your answer. First of all, you seem to be informed and concerned about the situation. I'm reassured. Then the investigation is under way. You say that if major shortcomings are identified, things will be put in place. I understand that this is unclear at this stage; the investigation should be allowed to proceed. I would like to remind you on this point that you are not responsible for the crisis situation of the reception – and not "migration crisis" as we all hear too often – that took place in 2015, and subsequently in 2019. It would have been wise to keep buffer seats; we agree. This has not been the choice of your predecessors, and it is a shame. It is therefore true that you inherited a situation that you did not ask for. That said, we warned about the danger of using private partners. In your reply to a written question of 20 October 2020, you committed yourself to conducting a survey to ensure the proper functioning of these private centres within four to six months. Here we go. This ultimately corresponds to accusations that are made. However, I am deeply concerned about something. I think my colleague Mr Rigot will address this point. We parliamentarians have been denied a field visit to see and make findings on the pretext of the pandemic. A company that takes residents to a reception centre and sends them to another centre to clean up for 1.5 euro an hour is concerned that parliamentarians come to do their work and come, with all the precautionary measures put in place, to check the situation of a centre. This shows the company's unwillingness – because it is a company – to participate in transparency in relation to the various elements put forward. Other testimonies come from other centres, but will be the subject of other questions. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u50	Secretary of State, one site, and suddenly, a welcome that seems to collapse dramatically. It is the same place, it is the same residents and it is the same staff, even if the number of its members is smaller. We can't have two different receptions in our state. It is at the very heart of Fedasil's mission that we need a humane and just welcome, respectful of those who have come to our country with confidence and who could – I take tweezers – be mistreated, at least according to the elements we have at our disposal today. I am very pleased to hear that you have put the opening of the next private centre on hold. I also think that we should not put everyone in the same basket. For having known the experience of the private sector in the past, there is the private sector which has social experience, has references and has evolved in similar or even identical fields abroad. We had this experience in 2015, and this one was conclusive. There is also the private person who has a commercial vocation and who does not have the necessary experience to deal with centres whose heart must be the social one and must not be profitable. But wait, of course, for the results of the investigation. I still have questions. When will we get these results? I note that staff, residents and management have been heard. But did we go there? As Mr. Moutquin said, we can't go. I hope Fedasil went physically to the scene. It's not enough to have interviews. Pending the results, what attitude has been put in place to preserve the rights of applicants for international protection and ensure their safety? We must guarantee their rights under their procedures, including their right to accommodation, but also their well-being. I understand that the centre continues to operate, that no temporary measures have been taken. So if the facts are correct, they continue. It is a matter that remains open. I hope that the investigation will evolve as quickly as possible. This, of course, can only encourage us to land at some point and to have a full audit of the private reception that is in place to see if it actually meets the expectations and prescriptions. As you said, I am aware that Fedasil is saturated and caught in the throat. Historical partners are, too. That is why we have called on the private sector. I know that. However, we must now be careful to audit all of these private structures. And if there are bad students in these public procurements, they must immediately be told that they have absolutely no place in a rule of law that guarantees the fundamental rights of those they receive during their reception period. Mr Secretary of State, thank you and I really hope that you will be able to give us the result of this audit and tell us how soon we will have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, the privatisation of our reception network is an evolution against which I am opposed. The PVDA told you a few months ago. That's what happens in Jalhay. It's exactly why I said that back then. It is unacceptable that we should neglect people whom we are supposed to receive in a good way. If we want to rule out neglect, we must not call on commercial players with a profit motive, who have every advantage in saving as much as possible costs. The minimum standards needed to provide quality reception are crucial here. If you say that these minimum standards apply in the procurement process, then there is something wrong with the minimum standards themselves, they are no longer sufficient. I hope that we can take note of these standards so that, if necessary, we can take a legislative initiative to remedy policy gaps. It is essential that there is a review of the reception centre in Jalhay so that the deficiencies can be identified by a public service. I would ask you to communicate about this transparently and to take appropriate measures and sanctions in the event of neglect and if Fedasil standards are not met.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u52	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, thank you for the question. Like you, I heard that the riots in Liège on 16 April actually caught 27 people after unacceptable gang violence. No persons were found in illegal residence. My services weren't contacted by the police or the Justice Department. We have not yet received any specific files from the police or the Justice Department. At this stage, therefore, my services cannot do anything. However, you can rely on it: in any file that we would receive from Justice, my services will check whether the conditions of the right of residence are still met and whether the right of residence can be withdrawn if, of course, there are significant elements in the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u53	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your answer, that is clear. My question came because the Minister of Justice had stated that if there were no Bells involved in the riots, they would be deported. So I suspected a file would have come your way. You say this is not the case. I will certainly question your colleague from the Justice Department about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u54	Mr Francken is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u55	Mrs Van Camp, your question gives me the opportunity to point out the importance of the asylum and migration pact. It is frustrating that the delay is getting worse and I will explain how we are doing the forcing to make progress. First of all, I would like to give some clarification on the new asylum and migration pact. It is a very large project that provides for robust management of the external borders. There will be more efficient asylum rules, improved procedures and better preparedness in crisis situations, as we have known in 2015. There will also be an effective return policy, whereby the European Member States speak with one voice and no longer have to negotiate individually. Sustainable legal pathways are being developed. From the opposition, too, it was rightly pointed out that there is a need for this. These are circular migration projects, which we must continue to set up together and at European level. There must also be a strong integration policy. To achieve this, the Pact includes a whole series of legislative instruments, in the form of regulations, directives and recommendations, which are also interlinked. The directives and regulations are subject to normal European legislative procedures. As in the Belgian context, it will take the necessary time to finalize it. No one has ever expressed the expectation that European asylum and migration policy will be fully reformed within six months. It is more realistic to talk about a journey of several years. We must try to move forward faster to prevent us from remaining stuck with the migration system that created the known problems in 2015. I would like to give a state of play to Mr Francken, who had also tabled a question, after a few months of intensive negotiations. Overall, there seems to be a political consensus around the external dimension of the Pact, which also translates into concrete actions. This external dimension is also of particular importance. As I said, we must speak with one voice from Europe. The Commission's report on the readmission cooperation of a series of visa-free third countries based on Article 25a of the new Visa Code has launched a new discussion on the operationalisation of the external dimension of the Pact. A summit with important countries of origin will take place next week: Algeria, Egypt, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Senegal and Tunisia. The agenda includes the discussion of partnerships with these countries, circular migration and the issue of return. All this is put in a broad story in order to be able to tackle the problems in a structural way. Belgium will provide a technical presentation on migration projects in the countries concerned. I will also participate in the ministerial meeting because I think it is important to ensure better agreements there. This is very difficult, but we really must make every effort to do so, and preferably at European level. We need to get enough weight together. So much for my explanation of the external dimension. Internal reforms in the Pact are clearly more difficult. Member States are awaiting the materialisation of a number of non-legislative innovations from the Pact, e.g. on blueprint. Last week, the Commission published the new European strategy on voluntary return. The announced additional legislative initiatives on legal migration are still awaited. Discussions on the so-called pre-entry phase, in particular the important screening regulation and border procedure for asylum and return, will continue at technical level, which has clarified the content and scope of the Commission's proposals. The Commission has launched a series of broad consultations at both political and technical level on the reform of the Schengen Agreements, which will be discussed at the second Schengen Forum on 17 May. Concrete legislative proposals on Schengen are expected by summer. With the adoption of the revised VIS Regulation, the main pillars for implementing and making interoperable the new IT architecture for border and migration management by 2024 are now also in place. There are a number of elements that I have just mentioned, and also the VIS agreements, for which Europe wants to produce very concrete results by the summer, that Europe is making progress, also thanks to the European Member States which are increasing the pressure and which make it clear that they cannot wait any longer. We must move forward, it must move faster. Belgium, together with the Commission and like-minded countries, is in favour of speeding up certain proposals on which preliminary agreements already exist between the Council and the European Parliament and which could bring immediate operational added value in the field. I am thinking, for example, of Eurodac and the European Agency for Asylum. However, there are Member States which, for political reasons, want to approach all the proposals as a single package, and that is indeed a politically difficult one. If you ask me if I am happy, the answer is no. Of course, I am not satisfied that this attitude prevents us from moving forward faster. We need urgent reform. I would also prefer things to go faster, but there are also good reasons for taking the necessary time for the wider story. Firstly, reforms must also be sustainable and must be supported by the Member States. Secondly, there is also the political reality. Unfortunately, she is what she is. The length of the legislative procedure with checks-and-balances and an active role of the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament is obviously there for a reason. We will not just take out the democratic processes. Thirdly, important decisions still need to be taken. The content of the Pact is therefore not yet clear as long as the right balance between responsibility and solidarity remains to be found. In discussions with Member States for whom responsibility is to be addressed and others who stress the importance of solidarity, we are trying to rationalise the debate, with the simulation exercise that should clarify what it is about and exactly what responsibility and solidarity we expect. Until that has been cleared up, many Member States will simply not be able to get out of the trenches. Fourthly, there are also different technical realities. Achieving interoperability between the different databases and Member States that our services and IT specialists are already working on takes time. Finally, questions have also been raised by the Council's legal service, fortunately not with regard to the content of the proposals, but with regard to the legal basis on which they are based for the time being. Mrs Van Camp rightly said that. It is important that we find a solution for this too. That's what politics is for. Fortunately, this does not prevent the Council from further negotiating and at least that element is not a delaying factor at the moment. Mrs Van Camp, you also asked me about my own plan. I can assure you that since October I have certainly not been idle with regard to the asylum and migration pact, precisely because I believe that it is necessary to make rapid progress in this area because the current model is simply inadequate. You also know, of course, that asylum and migration is an area in which we have transferred important powers to Europe. So European law prevents me from taking unilateral initiatives within the domain and it might not be useful to want to act on my own, as we live in an area without internal borders and with common external borders. It is these common external borders that we must manage better together. There we need screening to ensure better management of migration. That is why Belgium is developing constructively in several ongoing discussions, we are engaging in many bilateral contacts with different countries from all corners of Europe, and we are actively participating in the search for political and legal agreements. My services and our representatives are particularly active in the various European meetings and in the walkways which Belgium has always been historically, and we are pulling the European cart. We do that from the start, and we will continue to do so. I already gave a concrete example: the simulation exercise. On this basis, projections are made that allow Member States to understand the effects. This practice is important because the Pact risks remaining vague. Let me be clear on this: the Pact must not remain vague, it must be established as soon as possible. Europe needs to better manage asylum and migration. All European Member States bear a huge responsibility in this regard. Fortunately, all European Member States today realise that responsibility and solidarity must be there and that the model must be changed, with direct screening and respect for international and European law. If all the noses are in the same direction, Belgium will contribute to this. I hope that we will arrive at a model as soon as possible that will enable us to respond better to the challenges that exist today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your long answer. I have often asked these questions and I keep coming back to them because they are the crux of the failure of asylum and migration policy. Yet you keep giving the same answers every time. You say that we must continue to work for better management of our external borders, while ignoring our main criticism of the model that says that I repeat in the previous question that people can come here illegally and that there is a mass flow of which you see the figures today in your department. Last month there was another 30% increase in the number of asylum applications, despite the corona crisis in which we find ourselves, and a fall in the level of protection to less than 33%. So more and more people are coming to our country illegally and uncontrolled. It also shows that the majority of them do not really have the right to protection or need it. And yet you continue to say that we must continue to focus on that model and that we just need to do it a little better. Your model in no way provides a solution to the illegal crossing, the dead or the massive and uncontrolled influx. It is precisely because of this that the situation is so badly managed. Just saying that management will improve and the influx will then automatically drop is naive and ignores reality. You also regularly say, in response to various questions and proposals here, that you have a plan B ready and that proposals to improve and strengthen asylum and migration policy should not now be voted on. Mr President, I am looking forward to the promised committee in which the Secretary of State will give an update on the reforms and on the concrete changes he intends to make in the area of asylum and migration, and how far he stands with them. Until now, these words are not deeds. However, the population now expects a decisive approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u57	Mr Secretary of State, your answer was long and it was interesting to hear the state of play. I think it's gonna be really hard. That is also what I hear from MEP Kanko. I'm afraid you might consider the situation a little optimistic and voluntaristic. That's your job. Of course, it's hard for you to say you don't believe in it. You say honestly that you are not satisfied with the current state of affairs. I think it is indeed the right conclusion. The LIBE Committee of the European Parliament does not agree with many points. The Council is somewhat more on the right-hand side, but the LIBE Committee is generally a little left-wing. This situation will therefore cause a great deal of stress and trouble and will ultimately turn into nothing. It has not worked for ten years because a number of countries, particularly in Eastern Europe and southern Europe, have no problem with Western European countries remaining so hospitable, both in terms of Dublin reform and return. They allow a lot of people to travel and that remains a huge problem. So I am not optimistic, nor am I in favour of that pact. That pact, in itself, doesn't really exist either. It is a question of adapting different directives. It is not the case that there is one legislative text; the pact on which we have to vote, for or against the pact. It concerns 10 to 15 new regulations, directives and adaptations. Our group will determine its voting position. I join Mrs Van Camp: we have left that whole story behind and advocate a new paradigm, with a real new story and real change.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u58	Mr Rigot, your question concerns a Syrian Kurdish family during the asylum procedure, who chose to leave the territory and whose aunt and grandparents had already been ordered. As you know, it is not customary to comment on individual cases - and I will therefore abstain here. In general, I would like to point out that the presence in the territory is required for the processing of an application for international protection. This means that, if the applicant has left the territory to return definitively to his country of origin, the CGRA will make a decision to close the examination of the application. Secondly, I would also like to point out that the integration efforts and factors undertaken in Belgium by applicants are not taken into account when considering an application for international protection. In such a case, it is the fear of persecution or the risk of serious harm in the country of origin that is decisive. It seems to me essential to stress this and to make it clear that this asylum procedure is used to guarantee protection for vulnerable people. In other words, someone's vulnerability prevails. It is not because it is better integrated or qualified to bring something to society that, however, it would be more entitled to international protection than any other. In the case of this family, I cannot, in any case, provide you with any comments, because we are trying to limit as much as possible the communication relating to individual cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u59	Mr Secretary of State, I fully understand your duty as a reserve and do not wish to have an answer to this individual dossier. With regard to the other aspect, I also clearly understand the importance of always having, at the very heart of decisions, the Geneva Convention, the vulnerability and risks to those seeking international protection. In this case, this was an exceptional case and it was this exceptional aspect that I wanted to mention. I was just wondering whether they had taken stock of the consequences of their decisions, because they are obviously very burdensome for them. Sometimes decisions are made with emotion or lack of information, which would be a bit of a shame. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u60	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to question you about the relaunch plan. Last week, I was able to question Secretary of State Dermine about this. Mr Secretary of State, what is the state of play on the re-launch plan? What did you pull in and what didn't work out? Which budgets are in favour of this? I've read a few things about digitalization. Could you give us some explanation on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u61	Mr President, Mr Francken, far-reaching digitisation, as I have already pointed out a few times, is one of the key points in both the European and the Belgian relay strategy as a whole. The Department of Asylum and Migration has also been working on this essential change for some time now. A number of our services have already worked on this, but there is certainly still some work to be done on the digitisation of the department as a whole. As part of the Relance Plan, therefore, there is a sensitive investment in the necessary digitisation of asylum and migration procedures. The modernisation of, for example, medical invoicing is also being addressed. This is more than necessary, as services still rely to a large extent on highly outdated applications. As a result, a thorough digitisation of the processes, which should be integrated between all the different asylum and migration services and the direct interaction with citizens, can be achieved but very difficult. Many of today's processes could have been automated for a long time. The relay strategy, with the digitalisation that one wishes to carry out at Belgian level at all possible departments, can thus also mean a huge difference for our services in the department of Asylum and Migration. In the long term, this can release manpower, which can then be used for the processing of files. Modernising the invoicing of medical costs for applicants for international protection should lead to a reduction in the workload and an overview of medical costs and should also ensure access to the healthcare of rightholders. This digital change is aimed at the digital-by-default principle, whereas today sometimes the opposite is true because we have done far too little work on it. Furthermore, digitalisation can only succeed if the underlying processes are also optimised. Digitisation must contribute to the fact-based policy, which I have already given a prominent place in my policy statement, of course, with a view to ensuring the correct protection of personal data. This will enable policies to be pursued on the basis of the right facts and the right data. Since we will have the right figures right away, this can enable us to take the necessary policy decisions much more professionally and more quickly. Finally, far-reaching digitisation also means investing in applications that are sufficiently safe and crisis-proof.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, I know that digitisation is important. Everyone knows that. We also know that it is a priority for the European Union in the context of the European relaunch strategy. My question, however, was how many budgets were allocated precisely to which precise projects and which projects did not make it. That was actually my question. However, I will submit my question in writing so that you can explain the figures exactly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u63	Mr President, Mr Francken, I have the question for me. She was quite general and not as detailed as you indicate. However, it is better to put them in writing for that type of question, so that we can answer them in much more detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u64	Mr Secretary of State, I know I'm asking some pretty general questions. The reason for this is that I have many years of experience and personally believe that questions with 25 questions are not good. In my time as Secretary of State, I was quite annoyed by that. I will therefore be attentive and review the definition. I'm also here as a controlling Member of Parliament on your government's work. That is our constitutional task. So I'm just trying to get an update on some important files, such as the European Migration Network, the relay plan and the budget. That's why I'm a little more general sometimes. However, it is important to get an overview of the budgets you have made and of the projects that have not been made. By the way, I can question any minister on that. However, I will submit my question in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u65	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, earlier judgments were not anonymised, which is the case now. One can discuss the necessity, but good. The Court of Justice delivered a judgment on 15 April in the context of a case brought before the Court by a third-country national who had applied for asylum in Belgium after having entered Europe illegally through Spain and having travelled Europe illegally. That person has applied for asylum. According to the Dublin scheme, he had to do so in Spain, but he did so in Belgium. Belgium sent him back to Spain, which accepted the Dublin application. That is not always the case, so that was positive. Meanwhile, his brother Europe had also illegally entered and travelled to Belgium. The third-country national appealed against the Dublin decision and felt that in his appeal he should be able to invoke the arrival of his brother as a new element. We weren't very happy about that. If I am not mistaken, the Court of Justice has been asked how to interpret this. Belgium lost two cases, including this one. Belgium had to provide an effective opportunity to introduce new elements in an appeal procedure against a Dublin return decision. That is all very well, but I can imagine that a DVZ official or a municipality will lose heart before starting a return procedure for all possible appeal procedures, even all its fundamental rights. What are the consequences for the Foreign Office? How will DVZ apply this case law in practice? Should there be an adjustment of the Dublin system or the way in which we deal with such matters in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u66	Mr President, Mr Francken, I have taken note of the judgment of the Court of Justice of 15 April 2021 in H.A. against the Belgian State. The question referred for a preliminary ruling was referred to the Court of Justice by the Council of State. Neither the Dublin legislation in the Foreign Law nor the functioning of DVZ should be amended following that judgment, since the judgment concerns the appeal procedure against a Dublin transfer decision. The Court of Justice contends that, when examining an action for annulment of a transfer decision brought before it, a judge must take account of the circumstances which date from the adoption of the decision and which are decisive for the correct application of the Dublin order. An ex-nunc examination of these new elements should be possible, the result of which is binding on the competent authorities. The action for annulment, as contained in the Aliens Act, consists of a review of the legality of the action by the Council at the time when the administration took its decision. An ex tunc assessment. In theory, therefore, the Council cannot take into account future circumstances, regardless of whether they are decisive or not. The Aliens Act only provides for an exception in the context of a suspension action in the event of a very urgent need, taking into account subsequent elements which allow the Council to believe that the enforcement of the contested decision would expose the applicant to the risk of being subject to the violation of fundamental human rights, in respect of which no derogation is possible under Article 15, second paragraph of the ECHR. Thus, although the foreign law does not in principle provide for an ex-nunc assessment in the context of an appeal for annulment, the case law is more flexible. For example, there are already several situations where, on the basis of a higher legal standard, the RV does pass on to an ex nunc assessment of later circumstances. Think, for example, of medical elements after the transfer decision, whether or not the transfer period expires, etc. If, in the context of his appeal for annulment, an applicant cites circumstances which date from the adoption of the transfer decision and which are decisive for the correct application of the Dublin Regulation, and if, in the future, the RV finds that, on the basis of the current legislation, he does not have the power to carry out an ex-nunc review, he will still have to carry out that review on the basis of a higher legal standard, in particular the Dublin Regulation as interpreted by this recent judgment of the Court of Justice. For the sake of clarity, therefore, nothing actually changes what is already happening, because that case law has existed for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u67	So nothing changes in practice? That's always good news to hear. It is, of course, confirmed that it is necessary to make new elements possible, including at the end. However, that has actually already been done. Then, of course, the question is why a question was asked for a preliminary ruling. Surely no new elements were cited here in appeal proceedings? That man thinks his rights have been violated, doesn't he? I thought he wouldn't have appealed if he hadn't. I don't quite understand that. The reason is, of course, that he did not agree with the fact that he was sent back to Spain. Anyway, I'll take another look at it all. I am always sorry if we lose or give preliminary rulings which do not agree with us. I'd rather see it the other way around, and I suppose you'd rather see it the other way around.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u68	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, this question concerns a judgment of the Court of Justice of 11 March on the greater importance of the child in the context of a return decision accompanied by an entry ban, even though this decision is not directed against a minor, but against the father of that minor. In the present case, it concerns an illegal man who was expelled by DVZ, with a ban on travelling in Belgium for a number of years, for reasons of public policy, namely criminality. He appealed because, according to him, DVZ had not taken into account the importance of his minor Belgian child or his minor child with right of residence in Belgium, because that is not entirely clear. Following the rejection of his appeal by the Council of Foreign Ministers, he went to the Council of State, which referred a question to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling. Article 5 of the Return Directive requires Member States to take into account, inter alia, the greater importance of the child in its implementation. The Court states that it cannot be inferred from that provision that Member States should only take into account the greater interest of the child when the return decision concerns a minor, with the exclusion of return decisions adopted against the parents of that minor. Member States must therefore take into account the best interests of the child, even if the decision in question is not directed against that child itself. The result of this judgment is therefore that illegal criminals will not be able to be expelled, or even very difficult, if they have a child who has a right of residence or Belgian nationality, even if there is no connection and there has been no consideration for that child for years. Once again, an efficient return policy is being made more difficult. What are the consequences for DVZ? How will DVZ apply this case law in practice? Will the parental relationship with the child, or rather the lack thereof, be able to play a role in the assessment? How will DVZ motivate this? Should the legislation be amended in the light of this ruling? If so, in what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u69	Mr Secretary of State, in mid-March, refugee work in Flanders published a note on the child's greater importance. This shows that in Belgium little account is taken of this greater importance, more specifically when it comes to the Dublin procedures. However, the greater importance of the child is legally anchored at all levels, both in international treaties and in Belgian and European law, but also in that Dublin regulation itself. Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights constitutes the exception which confirms the rule and is regularly cited as regards the maintenance of the family unit. Although not separating children and parents is important in the consideration of the best interests of the child, it is anything but sufficient, especially for unaccompanied minors. In some cases where the best interests of the child are discussed in detail, a lack of legal certainty is found. Your policy statement says that you want to pursue an asylum and migration policy with respect for human rights. This is not the case with regard to asylum applications and children's rights, according to the note of refugee work in Flanders. Will you change your policy now that the analysis of Refugee Work Flanders shows that the greater importance of the child is neglected by the Department of Foreign Affairs, the Council for Foreign Affairs and attorneys? Do you see good in their recommendations, in particular the inclusion of the greater importance of the child as an overarching principle in the foreign law and the simplification of the formal requirements for proceedings involving children?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u70	The judgment of the European Court of Justice also concerns a question for a preliminary ruling from the Council of State. The Court states that any decision under the Return Directive must take account of the greater interest of the child, even if the decision does not concern the child itself. That is not new and does not mean at all that people with children could no longer be removed, whether or not they were with that child. Nor should the law be amended as a result of this judgment. The residence law already states in Article 74/13 that the Department of Foreign Affairs must take into account the greater interest of the child in making a return decision. In addition, Article 74/11 of the Act provides that the duration of an entry ban is to be determined by taking into account the specific individual circumstances specific to each case. In addition, when taking a decision, Article 24 of the Charter and Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights shall be taken into account. Consequently, since such a balance is normally already made, the judgment does not at all mean that persons without legal residence with children, whether or not with facts of public policy, could no longer be expelled. As a result of the judgment, care will be taken to ensure that the return decisions and any related entry bans are systematically, explicitly and properly justified in relation to the child's greater interest. Following the reply to the question referred by the Court of Justice, it is now up to the Council of State to decide whether or not the decision of the Foreign Affairs Council, which rejected the application against the entry ban, should be annulled. If that is the case, the Council of Foreign Ministers will re-examine the appeal. In his report, Vlaanderen's refugee work concluded that DVZ, the RvV and the lawyers concerned would hardly take into account the greater importance of the child. Let me make it quite clear that I want to deny that. For minors in the Dublin procedure, a distinction should be made between unaccompanied minors who apply for international protection and minors who are accompanied by their parents or parents. For unaccompanied minor aliens, the European Court of Justice ruled on 6 June 2013 that the Member State in which the minor applicant is present after submitting an application should be considered a responsible Member State. Since that ruling, Belgium has applied that practice. In other words, for unaccompanied minors who apply for international protection in our country and who are effectively considered to be minors, no Dublin procedures are being initiated. Such requests are always dealt with in Belgium. The Dublin procedure shall be applied to them only if the available information shows that the minor has family in another Member State and that reunification with that family or family member is in the best interests of the child. At that time, on the basis of the information available, a readmission request shall be addressed to the Member State where the family member or family member is legally resident. Refugee work Flanders also states in his note that the child's interest is hardly assessed. It refers to some of the judgments of the RV. I should also like to clarify this point. Under the Dublin procedure, Article 6 of the Dublin Regulation deals with the procedural guarantees of minors. Paragraph 1 states that Member States must place the best interests of the child first in all the procedures laid down in the Dublin Regulation. As regards the assessment of the best interests of the child in the Dublin procedure, on 23 January 2019, the Court of Justice stated that a Member State is not obliged to deal with an application for international protection for which the Member State is not responsible. It is up to the Member State itself to determine the circumstances in which it wishes to apply the sovereignty clause. Any decision taken by the DVD in the context of the Dublin procedure shall be duly substantiated, taking into account all possible judgments of the European Court of Justice, the European Convention on Human Rights, the EU Charter, the case law of the RVV, information provided by the applicant and reports of human rights organisations. Each dossier shall be treated and assessed individually. In other words, when making a decision under the Dublin procedure, the best interests of the child are not neglected. As regards the judgments of the Council of Foreign Ministers, it should be noted that the RV is an independent administrative court. I have stressed this here several times, but it is important to keep doing so. The Council is independent of policy and offers effective legal protection against government action on foreign disputes. I can't judge the neglect or lack of knowledge of lawyers. I come to the inclusion of the greater importance of the child as an overarching principle in the foreign law. As you know, there are many specific provisions in that law that oblige my services to take into account the greater importance of the child in certain decisions. I've discussed it in detail here. As I explained in my reply, it is ensured that these provisions are applied systematically in practice. Within the framework of the Migration Code, the Committee has sent out a broad survey, including among civil society, and we will undoubtedly receive recommendations. We will look at such questions in that context. However, the exhaustive information you have received shows that the child's greater interest is taken into account. However, there are also other international rules which should apply at least as much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u71	The importance of the child is therefore the new container concept of NGOs, lobby groups and the legal profession. I find it interesting to go through with that. When I was Secretary of State, we included for the first time in our legislation that there is not only something like the ordinary parental bond, but that there must also be an emotional and affective bond. Does that person take care of his child or does it simply make a child because it is much more difficult to send him back? That will not be impossible, but it will be very difficult, a ban on entry can almost be forgotten. When it comes to someone who is very intensively involved with his children and their education, I can understand why it is very unfortunate to have to impose a ban on entry. This almost always happens because of crime, so that person should have behaved better. In that case, I can still understand the greater importance of the child. This is very interesting. We can discuss this for hours. My question is above all what this social-effective bond with that child is, not just the biological bond. Is that parent gonna take care of that kid? For the first time in history, thanks to the support of Mr Geens, this is the first time in a law. It is a question of combating the false recognition of children. Mr Secretary of State, I give you a tip. With regard to this interest of the child, you can look at pistes in the future in which this socially effective bond between father and child, or mother and child, is effectively investigated. I think this is very interesting. We must never give the signal that one simply has to have a child, even if one does not look at it. If one is the biological father or mother, one is inside. I think this is a very interesting debate on which I would certainly like to have an exchange of views in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u72	Mr Secretary of State, I am very disappointed in your reply because you do not recognise the problems that refugee work has raised in Flanders. One can also choose simply to sensitise. We do not ask for direct intervention in independent services. I would therefore like to remind you of your fervent plea when you took office about the importance of a policy which focuses on human rights. That fieryness seems to have cooled a bit in your answer. Refugee work Flanders actually gives a huge gift to politics with that research. But you're just blowing that off. I find that really incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u73	Debates of the European Parliament 55016974C by Mrs Jadin has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u74	Mrs. Van Camp, the unsub was locked up in prison, given the nature of the facts. That seems to me to be normal in this matter. Each dossier is assessed individually and therefore has an appropriate effect. Persons who violate public order and persons who pose a threat to national security are, in principle, not a target group for return guidance, but can be detained immediately. You asked if there was guidance or coaching. For the sake of clarity, for people who are a threat to our national security, we should not use return guidance. One can immediately proceed to detention. People who do something wrong, by the way, belong in prison. That is the first thing that needs to be done. You have also asked me a number of questions to which you probably already know my answer. These are questions for which I am unfortunately not competent. For questions about the number of incidents, what incidents and so on, I would ask you to address the Minister of the Interior or the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u75	Mr Secretary of State, I will certainly do so. My question was not only whether this person was being held, which fortunately is the case, but whether voluntary return guidance is being started. Or are these people being held not only for a punishment for their misdeeds, but also for expulsion? I suspect that you will find it difficult to respond to this and that you would like me to put a written question to you. I'll certainly do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u76	Mrs Van Camp, thank you for your very interesting question. I had put the ban on temporary student migration on the agenda myself for a while. I will return to that in my reply. What essential journeys are allowed and what restrictions are imposed is always decided in the Consultation Committee. In addition to the federal government, there are also the Communities and the Regions, which include your party mates. The decisions in the Conciliation Committee are always taken collectively, on which I am very pleased, as everyone is in agreement. Why now, why not yesterday or the day after? We make those decisions together. It is important to respect all parties who sit at the table and make the decisions. We have to go through the crisis together. Although the members of the Consultation Committee are part of different political parties, it is important to defend the decisions taken. I will therefore be the last to return to decisions taken a few weeks ago, arguing that another measure should have been taken in line with my opinion on the matter, which the rest would not have shared. I continue to stress that we make and support the decisions together. I am pleased that we have also made a very important decision on this issue recently. In the run-up to the meeting of the Consultative Committee on 23 April, I have effectively called for study migration to Belgium to cease to be essential travels. On that day, the Consultation Committee, together with colleagues from your party, decided to ask the Länder, responsible for Education, to consider whether and, where appropriate, under what circumstances study-related travel from India can no longer take place as essential travels. I quote the question of the Consultative Committee: 'States with responsibility for Education to check whether and, where appropriate, under what circumstances traveling from India that are study-related can no longer continue as essential travels'. I refer to the statement by Flemish Minister of Education Ben Weyts in the plenary session of the Flemish Parliament: "I think travelling to study is an essential move. It's not because of holiday goals, it's to study. I think that is essential and good." At the meeting of the Consultative Committee on 27 April, another collective decision was taken to ban essential trips, including study migration to Belgium, from three countries, in particular India, Brazil and South Africa. That decision was made because variants appeared there. Perhaps we should also take action for other countries in the future. This will therefore be done on the basis of new variants that might emerge, hopefully that will not happen in other countries. It is very important that we look first and foremost at the principle of proportionality. You also asked why I let it come to this, because the risks have been known for years. I am glad that you say that the risks have been known for years, but I have to say, together with you, that certain colleagues are still on the brakes for various reasons which I can understand. We are trying to move forward in this, but I have to say that some Members believe that this is an essential move and that it should be possible to do so, even if the movement takes place from countries affected by certain dangerous changes. As regards your second question, I would like to point out that migration based on family reunification is also covered by the ban on essential travel from India, Brazil and South Africa. Labour migration, family reunification and study migration are normally essential movements. When we impose an entry ban, the essential journeys can normally continue, but because there are dangerous mutations there, we try to go even further in proportion to what we are doing for those three countries. In addition, there are a lot of preventive measures in place for travel which you know and which you can check with the Minister for the Interior. Also on the website you can see what measures people who come to Belgium must take to prevent the virus from spreading around the world. It's about quarantine measures and so on. In addition, you know as well as I do that the right to apply for international protection cannot be suspended, which is also a good thing to ensure that people who want to apply effectively for international protection because they can still flee persecution. However, my services take all possible precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19. You have already asked a question in the past about the level of infection in our reception centres. Thanks to the work our services have done there in recent months in very difficult circumstances, the dissemination within our services has remained as limited as possible. They are their essential tasks if we continue to use that word again in difficult circumstances, for which I thank you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u77	Mr Secretary of State, you are trying to shift responsibility and forget that you are responsible for family reunification. You say that this has now been suspended for countries at risk. I warned you about the risks at the start of the corona crisis and you did not intervene. You had it contained until there was a case of contagion, and then you did intervene. There is a proverb for that: when the calf is drowned, the well is muffled. For the rest, there is another expression here, namely umbrella policy. You refer to your colleagues in the Conciliation Committee and you say that they should have taken action. You are responsible for family reunification and migration. You should have taken responsibility and asked the necessary questions about safety. Those questions were also asked here in Parliament and you did not put them on the Committee's table. Now, after unfortunate cases, you are trying to shift your responsibility. You keep making the same mistakes. In response to the previous question, you said that you even released illegal criminals who were not expelled without a test. That is a risk to public health. You absolutely reject that and say that you do not know why they should be tested. I note that you continue to make the same mistakes and do not really seem concerned about public health. You think it is particularly important that unbridled illegal migration can be made here, in an unorderly manner. You're shielding with the right to protection. I didn't say anything about that. On the contrary, our proposal in this area states that the right to protection remains guaranteed. This does not mean that illegal immigration must be allowed in an unorderly manner. You're confusing those two things. It was our will to discuss this in committee and to invite experts to do so. Your group has rejected this question, each time with the same arguments, which make no sense at all. That's too bad. You are making completely wrong choices and you are really not concerned about public health, so much is clear. You're setting different priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u78	If there are some strange things to say, then I have to make some clarification. Maybe I wasn't clear enough. At the start of the corona crisis, I was not yet a Secretary of State, but when I took up this position, I, together with my services, put in place sufficient measures to monitor COOVID-19 in our services. At some point there have been variations and then we have to take that into account. There have been strong discussions on the Consultation Committee. It's not always as simple as I can understand. After all, all parties have their own point of view and vision. However, together we have all managed to announce a strict entry ban, including the essential movements mentioned. At that time, it was very difficult for the Flemish Minister of Education, of your party, to accept that study migration is no longer considered an essential journey. He also said this in the Flemish Parliament. You believe that the ban should have been imposed much earlier. I want to know for sure how I can get all the parties involved when we will have those talks at the next meeting of the Consultation Committee. When it comes to dangerous variants, do I have your party with me to ensure that essential movements, such as study migration, cannot continue, or do I not have them? I'd like to know. When we were talking about Actiris, I had all my doubts and now I have them again. I want to get out of the crisis as quickly as possible, together with all parties, and I want to do so as well as possible. I am very curious to hear your answer, because that will mean that I can make sure that dangerous variants do not reach our territory. That would not be good for public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u79	Mr Secretary of State, you have my full support for this, but it is a comprehensive package of measures that we have presented to you, including one on family reunification. I understand that you did not put the entry ban on the agenda of the Conciliation Committee until a positive case had emerged and you had no choice but to do so. The Consultative Committee approved it. I don't understand your insinuations. Support has been found for the proposal that we had already formulated for a long time, namely to check whether, for example, the influx of migrants through family reunification would not pose a risk and to limit it. If there is now a ban on entry from countries at risk, it is because we have supported it. You keep asking the same question, and you may do it again later, but I will always give you the same answer. It is a nice tactic to shift your own responsibility from you in particular. You're responsible for that unbridled influx of migration. You are responsible for releasing illegal immigrants without a corona test because they refuse to have them taken, to be returned to the country of origin, because that country of origin does consider that such a test would be necessary for public health. You release such people into this society without taking a test. You intervene too late, while we have already given the signals from the start of the corona crisis, even from when you arrived. We have all the evidence of that. You can try to shift the responsibility away from you and always look for contradictions in difficult questions that are absolutely not there. The fact remains that your policy fails, that you intervene too late and that you always try to shift responsibility away from you. The people and we see this differently. We'll see what the truth is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u80	According to the committee agenda, we'd be working till 5:00 p.m. It's 5:05 now. The Secretary of State will let me know that he will be able to answer another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u81	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, especially for my most constructive Member of Parliament in committee, I have thought: we go even further, we add one more. I am very pleased that you are asking this question. Last time in committee, I made it clear that the last few weeks and months have been communicated about the Turkish imam, including by your party, and I would have said that I would remove this person from the territory and give him the order to leave the territory, but nothing would happen. I also know how important you think it is that we give the right information to the citizen. I would have thought, and even hoped, that the days and weeks after the committee meeting might have been possible to inform everyone about exactly what happened. Unfortunately, that has not happened, but it can still be done. It is important to give people the right information. I will answer some of the questions you have asked about the procedure and how we have dealt with it. That gives me the opportunity to clarify exactly what we are doing and to point out that we have succeeded, despite the fact that Flemish Interest and N-VA had made it clear that it could not be done. The Sefor procedure was initiated after an order to leave the territory was served. The Foreign Affairs Office had four return talks with the person concerned: on 24 February, 5 March, 12 March and 31 March. The talks started before the 30-day deadline to leave the country voluntarily was over. So we started it immediately and intensively. I have already discussed this dossier with the Turkish Ambassador at the end of January. Also during the months of February and March there were several contacts between my cabinet staff and the Turkish embassy, specifically on this dossier. I would like to stress that the way in which we work together in the greatest respect in the diplomatic field provides solutions on the ground. I can perfectly roll my muscles every day and make it clear what I think should happen, but diplomatically, when it comes to return, we need respectful relations with countries that also do a huge amount of work in the area of migration and reception of refugees. A country like Turkey captures huge amounts of refugees. I have already stressed that mutual respect for countries of origin and neighbouring countries of Europe is the only way to achieve better migration policies and better relations at international level. In the other files you refer to, no guidance pathways have been started. After all, this project has not yet been developed on a large scale. You also know that this is one of my priorities. I want to ensure that we can achieve the intensive, individual guidance. Your next question, which will no longer be discussed today, concerns the additional staff. Why is that extra staff joining us? What is the impact of intensive guidance? Should one simply give a piece of paper with an order on it and the message to draw its plan? That's not gonna get ahead. There is a need for individual guidance. That is also the philosophy of this government, a policy that keeps up. We want to guide people, provide the right information and ensure that the decision is taken. Unfortunately, our services do not currently have the capacity to provide systematic guidance, but the investments have been made. We hope that our services will be strengthened as soon as possible. After all, that extra staff will make the difference. In recent years too much has been saved on staff. We can say that we support our services and that our services are the best in the world. If they're really the best in the world, they invest in them. Then we will ensure that there is sufficient staff to deal with files. Then they will not be confronted with 24,000 orders to leave the territory, while there is insufficient staff to do so. Then we ensure that there are digital processes across all asylum services, which can ensure that we have all the information and figures to respond immediately to the problems that exist. The screening in the context of new applications for residence of service operators is a single permit application. You also asked me a question about this. That's what the security services do. I think you know that, too. If you have any questions about the servants of worship, I suggest you address the question to the Minister of Justice who is responsible for it. When my services receive information that there would be problems of public order or national security, it is clear that they must of course take this into account when giving or not giving permission to come to Belgium. That is very important. I emphasized that. It's not always easy to evict someone who shouldn't be here, someone who makes a hate speech, someone who makes statements that are homophobic. I hope we all think they don't belong here. It is not easy, but we must do everything in our power to give the clear signal that people who come here to sow hatred, who make statements that do not belong here, have no place here. Every day we build a society in which the children of Ben Segers, whom I have just seen, have the space to grow up in society as we want them to. I would like to thank everyone who has participated in this process. I hope you'll thank them, too. I look forward, as always, to what happens on social media, because that world is sometimes a bit strange.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u82	You're falling completely into the basket with that data. At the last committee meeting, you honked that it was fake news and that you had indeed deported the imam. By requesting the data, we know that at the end of January, you communicated very clearly in newspapers and other media that you had turned the imam into gay hatred. That was your first lie. That person only had an order to leave the territory. At that time, you did not launch any route to indicate it effectively. When we asked you questions about this at the beginning of February, you had still not started a journey to effectively follow the order to leave the territory. Only after parliamentary pressure did you take action at the end of February. You are now completely out of control, all the more so since you demanded a correction at the previous committee meeting and stressed that you are achieving results with your coaching process. It turns out you don't apply that route to illegals who scratch cars, spit cops, or work people with a hatchet. For that kind of serious facts, you didn't think a coaching journey was appropriate. But isn't preaching gay hatred serious enough to start coaching for that? You're not exactly consistent. You are pulling the loose ends together and the data clearly shows that you have only responded to this hate-preaching imam after parliamentary pressure. That doesn't change the fact that I'm glad he's been deported. Again, you're falling apart, so your request for a correction doesn't make sense. All the data show that we were right in our messages on the social media. So I refuse to correct something, on the contrary, I will share another message containing the information on when exactly the route was started, on behalf of Parliament, and not on your question. You do not take responsibility when illegal immigrants and asylum seekers come here to riot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u83	If the necessary information is disseminated in a message on the social media, I am always very satisfied with it. It's good that something like that happens. I would like to make sure that is done in the right way. For the record, the Sefor procedure has been initiated immediately after the publication of the order to leave the territory. You can draw your own creative conclusions from that. You can even say that this procedure was due to the opposition's work. I would like to inform you that I have read in messages on Facebook, from your fellow party members, that it may have been questionable that someone was expelled from the country after homophobic statements. I have seen a lot of turns here and today we have had almost the whole circuit of Francorchamps, but at some point one has to come to the right conclusion. However, let's finish with a positive note, tomorrow we'll all sit on a terrace and have a pint. I wish you well, Mrs Van Camp. We can then be pleased that in this story we could come to an end in a respectful way, without shouting, on which we can all be very satisfied. If we continue to work in this way and finally give our services the respect and resources they deserve, then we will be able to do very nice things. Mrs. Van Camp, health, have a glass on it. I'll do it myself. Thank you for the pertinent question, because it was good to be able to dot the i here. By the way, you can always invite me to a discussion on a terrace.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic468x.u84	Mr Secretary of State, that goes beyond normal committee work.
