ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u1	Mr. Minister, a report by the Supervisory Body on Police Information has shown that the Erpe-Mere/Lede police area could listen for a year with confidential conversations of lawyers with their clients. The interrogation rooms in the police station were equipped with cameras that also recorded the sound, allowing the agents to eavesdrop on conversations. The parquet would have started an investigation by now. The consequences of the infringements detected cannot and must not be underestimated. I refer in particular to the Salduz legislation, which has just come to protect the rights of the accused. This legislation has been blatantly ignored here. Numerous criminal investigations are likely to end up in the wastebasket. I assume, Minister, that you have now taken note of the dossier. Do you know in how many cases attorneys' conversations with their clients were bugged? Could you give us a more detailed explanation? What are the potential consequences of the illegal eavesdropping or eavesdropping practices at issue? Can these practices affect the admissibility of the criminal proceedings? Will the investigations carried out have to be repeated? Is additional capacity provided for this purpose? How do you see that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u2	Minister, the daily newspaper De Tijd recently revealed that the Police Information Review Body (PIB) had discovered that a police area, whose identity was not revealed, would have followed the confidential interviews that lawyers had with their clients, prior to their hearings. Thus, cameras to record both the images and the sound would have been placed in the room for the said confidential interviews. Such a practice is obviously completely unacceptable, since it violates the rights of defence, a fundamental and essential right of all democracies, but also the essential principles governing the relationship between a lawyer and his client. Moreover, such acts, because of their illegal nature, endanger the results of the investigations in which they were carried out. You strongly condemned these actions and announced that follow-up action would be taken, which I welcome. So, Minister, my questions are as follows. Does the COC report quantify and identify all the files in which illegal wiretapping has taken place? Have any contacts with the lawyers concerned been made or are they envisaged? What concrete steps do you intend to take as a result of this case, both for the area concerned and for all areas of the country, so that such events do not happen again?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u3	Mr. Boukili is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u4	Minister, last weekend we were indeed informed that confidential conversations between lawyers and accused persons were being monitored in the police commissioner of the Erpe-Mere/Lede police area. The Commissariat is well known to me, because I live in a neighborhood. It's about a new building that many police zones are jealous of. The practices there, of course, cannot be accepted and are a flagrant violation of privacy, of the confidentiality of a conversation between a lawyer and his client and of the Salduz Act. That is unacceptable and we must now wait and see what the consequences will be. For the rest, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u5	Minister, the problem has already been outlined: it is a question of eavesdropping confidential conversations in a police station, of the first talks between a counselor and a client. These talks are crucial for the construction of a defence and should, of course, remain confidential. I am very concerned about the possible consequences for the ongoing investigations. I agree with the questions that have already been asked and look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u6	Mr Segers is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the many questions on the issues outlined. Questions are certainly in place, answers equally. The article in De Tijd came in response to a press release from the supervisory authority for police information management, and I have, of course, been able to take note of that. It related to the monitoring report of the control body on the visit to a police zone in East Flanders under its control and supervision powers. The report of the supervisory body which can be consulted on the website and the press release of the COC show that the COC found that a police zone in East Flanders recorded confidential conversations between lawyers and their clients. Following a complaint, the COC conducted an in-depth investigation into the approach in that particular police area. This showed that it was a standard practice there to allow confidential conversations between suspects and their lawyers to take place in premises whose video footage was visible to police officers and whose conversations could be heard. The recordings were also automatically stored. The COC immediately terminated this practice and informed the Prosecutor's Office of this conclusion. The East Flanders Public Prosecutor's Office is currently conducting an in-depth investigation into this case. A criminal investigation is under way at the prosecutorial level. This investigation will have to reveal whether one or more conversations have actually been tapped. The criminal investigation shall establish who is responsible for which criminal offences, if any. We must therefore wait for the results of the survey. However, we are dealing with COC findings that we cannot ignore. It is those findings that prompted my colleague from the Interior and myself to respond immediately last week with the statement that this is an illegal practice which constitutes an unacceptable violation of the confidentiality of the consultation between lawyer and client and of the rights of defence. The Salduz Act gives suspects the right to a confidential consultation with their lawyer. Also, the interview did not meet all the required conditions and the images of the interrogation rooms appeared to be visible to the public. This is a violation of Article 47a of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Paragraph 6.9 of that Article provides that no judgment may be given against a person based on statements made in breach of paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5, with the exception of paragraph 5, concerning prior confidential consultation or assistance by a lawyer during the hearing, or contrary to Articles 2a, 15a, 20 (1), 24a/1 of the Law of 20 July 1990 on provisional detention. In addition, the strict guidelines in the letter of the College of Attorneys General of 2011, COL 8, which bind the police services, explicitly state that the confidentiality of the consultation should be guaranteed, even if the conversation takes place by telephone. I quote the COL: 'The confidentiality of consultations must of course also be guaranteed, even if it takes place by telephone. It is strictly forbidden to listen to this communication, to take note of it or to record it." In other words, ladies and gentlemen, if the confidential conversation between a client and his or her lawyer can still be heard accidentally outside the room provided for that purpose, it must be immediately interrupted when applying the mentioned directives. It also conducts its investigation on the basis of Articles 151 and 259a of the Criminal Code and Article 222 (1) and (2) of the Law of 30 July 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data. Article 259a of the Criminal Code expressly punishes any public officer or official, carrier or agent of public authority who, following the exercise of his or her duties and outside the cases provided for by law or without regard to the forms which it prescribes, either intentionally, by means of any apparatus which he or she does not engage in, intercepts or intercepts, takes notice of, records or causes to record it, without the consent of all participants in that communication, or, secondly, intentionally to commit any of the offences described therein, prepares or makes available any apparatus, or, thirdly, knowingly, the content of any communication or data which is not accessible to the public and which is unlawfully intercepted or recorded or which has been acquired, holds, discloses or knowingly distributes to another person, or uses any information obtained in that way. The eavesdropping of communication not accessible to the public is only possible in the context of a judicial investigation and subject to the prior consent of a investigating judge. The forms and conditions laid down in Article 90b et seq. of the Code of Criminal Procedure should be respected. Article 90c of the same Code even provides for specific protection for lawyers. The measure may be applied only if the lawyer himself is suspected of having committed or participated in one of the offences referred to in Article 90b or if precise facts suggest that third parties suspected of having committed one of the offences referred to in Article 90b use his local residence communications or computer systems. In addition, the measure cannot be implemented without informing the stickman. In addition to the rules on wiretapping, article 112ter of the Code of Criminal Procedure also provides that the King's Prosecutor or the investigating judge may order an audio or audio recording of an interrogation. The person to be heard must be informed beforehand. This article does not seem to have been respected either. As regards the implications for the ongoing investigations, it has become clear from the story that this is a flagrant mockery of the most important rules. However, it is for the Court of Justice, in particular, to assess, pursuant to Article 32b of the previous Title of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the so-called Anti-Gun Law, case by case, the consequences of those practices in the context of the ongoing investigations. It is important to consider whether such practices also occur in other police services outside the police area in question. Conversations between two individuals are private. This is particularly true for conversations between a lawyer and his client, as I have just explained. Every chief of police, every commissioner or chief of police knows those rules or is deemed to know them at least. There is no grey zone here. The rules are very clear. My colleague from the Interior and I have stressed that every police area in our country must strictly respect the principle of confidentiality of the talks. That is why, together with my colleague at the control body, the COC, I have asked for a thematic study to be launched with the integrated police. The control body will ensure that such practice does not take place elsewhere either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which was actually a rather theoretical, albeit correct explanation of the legislation. You have said that these practices are a flagrant mockery of the rules. But we're not getting any certainty about the consequences here. You put the ball in the court of the facts, which will judge this case on a case-by-case basis. That's right. However, I do not think that this should be allowed to go lightly, Minister. There is no need to be a top lawyer, specialising in criminal proceedings such as Hans Rieder, to achieve excellent results here and to ensure that there are no convictions, so that the defendants, who have been proved guilty, go free, precisely because very serious procedural errors have been committed. Hence my concern. Do you have a visual on the nature of the files? Were we talking about lighter forms of crime or serious crime? This is not insignificant for the possible consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. You have indeed recalled all the elements of law and all the legal arsenal that is ours to avoid this kind of unacceptable behaviour, as you have said. There are clearly two elements. There is potential harm to the cases in question. You are right simply to refer to the principle of the separation of powers and therefore not to express yourself beyond the general observation that can be made, saying that there will probably be elements that will vitiate this procedure. It's obviously damaging. That's the first damage. The second is that of confidence in general. We have a possible grip on this problem, we, as legislator and you, as executive power. We need more than raising awareness. We must make sure that this can no longer be represented. Indeed, the organs of the State, whatever they may be, must strictly apply the principle of exemplaryness. Here, obviously, this principle was not on the rendezvous.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive and very clear answer. You strongly condemned the flagrant mockery of clear rules, as you yourself call them, last weekend, together with your colleague. That is good, because it is indeed unacceptable and, as Mr Goffin said, such facts mean that confidence in the police and the judiciary is being undermined again. I also note that the COC has done a good job by noticing it. We'll have to wait and see if we can get more details on the number of cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad that the facts have come to light, because this is the way to remedy it, but at the same time I am very sad, because it is already so difficult and because trust in the police and the judiciary is already so fragile. The police and the judiciary are at the service of our society, and it is a pity that this creates a breach of confidence. It is very important that we take firm action now, so that confidence can be restored quickly. For the rest, we will see what the judge of the facts is and we can only hope that the files have not been affected too much. After all, a client's first conversation with his counsel is crucial. That's where the lines for the defense are set, a defense they're entitled to. I think it's a very painful case. It is important to find out to the bone what has happened and to intervene properly and decisively so that the breach of confidence can be restored. A clear signal must be given that such practices cannot be repeated, even in other zones. In any case, I assume that almost all other areas will be dealt with correctly. If we lose that trust, it's completely lost. So we can't do that. I trust that you will follow the matter well, just as we will.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u12	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about an ongoing matter. I know that as a parliamentarian, justice is allowed to do its job. However, some structural questions need to be asked here. Two years ago, Lamine Bangoura died as a result of suffocation at the end of maintaining high prolonged pressure on her chest cage, according to the medical examiner's report. Although the circumstances are different, the way in which Lamine lost his life is reminiscent of George Floyd's death in the United States. On the other hand, the many questions raised by Lamine's death did not have the same impact in our country. In this case, the Indictments Chamber decided to dismiss the case, following the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office. While our role as political representatives is not to comment on court decisions in particular, there is still reason to question the significant proportion of motions and dismissals in cases involving police officers. As a result of this practice, the vast majority of files involving a police officer are not subject to public debate in a correctional court. However, the European Court of Human Rights points out that the publicity of the proceedings protects litigants from secret justice beyond the control of the public. It is also one of the ways in which confidence in courts and tribunals can be preserved. Through the transparency it gives to the administration of justice, it helps to achieve the aim of Article 6(1), i.e. to have a fair trial, the guarantee of which is one of the principles of any democratic society within the meaning of the Convention. Minister, while the UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination has pointed out a few weeks ago Belgium's numerous shortcomings in the treatment of potentially racist police violence; while public opinion is becoming distrustful of the treatment of police violence and the alleged or actual impunity of police officers, do you not think that the almost systematic absence of a public trial is particularly damaging in such cases? In this context, would it not be appropriate to remind prosecutors that cases where there are sufficient charges for an offence must be the subject of a referral order, including where such cases involve police officers as suspects?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I repeat what I said from the beginning of my term of office. Violence against police officers is unacceptable, but illegal violence by police officers is equally unacceptable. In saying this, I must nevertheless nuance your assertion that cases of police violence would almost never be the subject of public debate. I believe that this statement is objectively incorrect. If, in the example set out in your first question, the procedure initiated by the police has in fact ended with a decision of dismissal by an investigating court, in this case the indictment chamber is not always the case. It is clear that when sufficient charges are brought against the police officers at the stage of the procedure, a fortiori when the case relates to acts of use of force which have led to serious or even irreversible consequences for the victim, this procedure will be the subject of requests for referral by the Public Prosecutor's Office to the substantive court so that a public and adversarial debate can take place. Furthermore, it is worth recalling that the civil parties always have the opportunity to participate actively in the investigation by requesting regular access to the file and, where appropriate, requesting the examining magistrate to carry out additional duties which they consider necessary for the manifestation of the truth. In the same vein, the civil party may take part in the debate before the Chamber of Council and contest any requests for dismissal made by the Public Prosecutor's Office which it considers unwarranted. The civil party also has the right to appeal a possible dismissal order issued by the Chamber of Council, thus bringing the matter before the Indictments Chamber, where it will be heard in its arguments. All these means of action made available to the civil party enable it to take an active part in the investigation first and then in the debate, thus constituting a sufficient and effective guarantee against any suspicion of bias or too much indulgence by the public prosecutor in relation to an accused. If the European Convention on Human Rights (...) makes use of a fair trial, ensured in particular by the publicity of the proceedings, it should be recalled that this principle applies only to the proceedings before the substantive court, on the contrary to the proceedings before an investigating court, i.e. the Chamber of Counsel or the Indictments Chamber. These, in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Investigation, must be held in camera. Why? This is a fundamental principle aimed at protecting the suspect's presumption of innocence. As far as your second question is concerned, this terrible matter to which you are referring has shocked and shocked many people. In general, I can tell you that a case with sufficient charges against an accused person is systematically referred to the relevant substantive court by the Public Prosecutor's Office. I have no indication that our magistrates would apply these basic principles of criminal procedure differently when it comes to police officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u14	Minister, thank you for your full answers. I will certainly question you again when we have more hindsight on the case in question. It is true, as you said, that this case has shocked and shocked many citizens terribly. I recall the report of the UN Committee, which is concerned about some of the treatment of police violence. You were right to recall that both violence are inadmissible. I'm glad you called him back in both directions. On the other hand, judicial treatment will have to be considered. I will also question Mrs Verlinden earlier in the Committee on the Interior about cases which, unfortunately, also break the trust between citizens and the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u15	Madam President, this is still a terrible story. Mr Minister, Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights, on the right to life, contains a procedural component which requires a thorough investigation as soon as a person loses his or her life as a result of the intervention of State agents. Given the rate of decisions to dismiss and dismiss cases involving police officers, it is often up to the victims' families to initiate the proceedings themselves. They should not be punished for seeking to know the truth or for wanting to exhaust domestic remedies – including the possibility of going to the Court of Strasbourg. That's their right. However, the current procedure allows the judge to pay considerable procedural compensation to a bereaved and shocked family – in this case, Mr.Lamine Bangoura's. In this case, we are talking about more than 5,000 euros. This already exorbitant amount adds to the 30,000 euros claimed by the funeral home to Lamine's family for keeping the body, while the body was to remain under judicial seal. Minister, do you not think that it is morally indecent to claim the payment of such a sum to a family that has lost one of its own and seeks only to know the truth about the circumstances of his death? Is there a public fund that bereaved families can use to cover such costs in court proceedings? If not, would you be in favour?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u16	Madam President, Mr Moutquin, our right must of course reflect our morality and therefore what we find good and bad. For this particular case, I refer you to articles 162 and 162bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation, the first of which was amended by the legislator in 2014. Previously, it was envisaged that the unsuccessful civil party would be ex officio ordered to pay the costs to the State and the accused when an investigation was initiated as a result of its formation as a civil party. In practice, victims sometimes had to cover the high costs of an investigation when it did not result in the designation of a culprit. This section was amended by the Act of 2 April 2014. The article now provides that the unsuccessful civil party may be sentenced to all or part of the costs to the State and to the accused. It may be ordered to pay all or part of the costs incurred by the State and the accused in the event of a direct summons or when an investigation has been initiated as a result of the lodging of a civil suit. Thus, the legislator has amended section 162 to give the judge discretion as to whether a civil party should be ordered to pay the costs in whole or in part. Article 162a regulates the situation in which the public action is brought by a direct summons of the civil party who, in the event of his or her death, is ordered to pay procedural compensation to the defendant. This article provides: "A civil party who has issued a direct summons or has filed a separate action against a direct summons issued by another civil party or who, in the absence of any appeal by the Public Prosecutor's Office, the accused or the civilly liable person, has appealed and who will succumb, may be sentenced to the accused as well as to the civilly liable person to the compensation referred to in article 1022 of the Judicial Code. The compensation will be liquidated by judgment." Here too, therefore, the judge is given discretion as to whether a civil party should be sentenced to compensation under this famous article. You're asking if there is a fund. No, there's no money. This is the enforcement of a judicial decision. I am referring to the legislative amendments that make it possible to decide on a more equitable basis on a conviction at costs. It is ultimately up to the judge to decide whether or not to pay the costs, both in the case of a direct summons and when an investigation has been initiated as a result of the civil action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u17	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u18	Mr Minister, many police areas have already started working on decoy bikes. Mechelen is a well-known example, but this also happened in the areas of Ghent, Leuven, Schoten, North and Voorkempen. Now the Brussels police also start with decoy bikes. You too already gave the use of decoy bikes a good idea to find. You will find them crucial to increase the chance of getting caught in the fight against bicycle thefts. That is indeed the most important argument because the number of bicycle thieves caught is minimal, compared to the actual number of stolen bicycles. Moreover, we have no idea of the real number of stolen bicycles, as the willingness to report is extremely low. Few citizens are confident that something will actually happen with their declaration. Locator bikes are a suitable means to catch bicycle thieves in the act. Police zones do complain about the cumbersome procedure they have to follow in order to deploy decoy bikes. Since this measure is governed by the law on special detection methods, the approval of a magistrate is always necessary. Apparently, it's not that easy to get that approval, too. Sometimes the argument of entrapment is screened, but even the Brussels parquet indicated that this is not really going to work. Putting a bike somewhere is no reason to steal that bike. However, according to the Brussels parquet, there is entrapment when, for example, an expensive bicycle is placed without lock in front of a suspect's home. Minister, on the basis of what criteria does the magistrate assess whether or not a decoy can be used? Do you think that the legislation on decoy bikes should be adapted so that more police zones can use it? If so, what initiative will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u19	Mrs Buyst, I would first of all like to refer to the answers I gave at the committee meeting on 31 March. On that occasion I answered a question by Mr Raskin on the same subject. At the beginning of March, on the initiative of the Federal Minister for Mobility, Mr Gilkinet, a pilot group of bicycle theft was set up, of which my policy cell is part. For me, it is important to follow up on bicycle thefts when the unsub is caught. It may then be a friendly settlement for an occasional bicycle thief or a heavier punishment when it comes to organized bicycle thieves gangs. The use of decoy bikes, which is important to know, is not covered by the special detection methods provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure. Therefore, prior authorisation by a magistrate is not required. There is currently no legal basis for the use of decoy bikes, but I do not think this is necessary. After all, we can rely on the general provisions governing the police's powers of investigation and determination. The border that needs to be guarded is that of provocation. It is in that context that the use of decoy bicycles must fulfil certain conditions which can be derived from the case law and the doctrine of law. The judgment in cassation of 17 March 2010 makes it possible to derive a number of conditions which must be met in order for the use of a decoy to pass the test. These conditions are linked to the principles of finality and proportionality. In my reply to Mr Raskin, which you can read, I gave a detailed account of these conditions. The above is of course also applicable to other decoys, such as the decoy truck, the decoy bus or even the decoy house. In reply to your second question, I would like to give you the following answers. I believe that the legal framework, supplemented by the conditions laid down by the law and recognised in the doctrine of law, is sufficient for the use of decoys. There is therefore no need for additional legislation in this area. For the rest, I also refer to a number of interesting articles. Former Attorney General De Valkeneer and Mr Schuermans, the chairman of the COC, passed cassation test in the Juristenkrant. There is also an interesting article by Mr Berkmoes on cassation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u20	Madam President, Minister, I will certainly read these interesting articles. Thank you for clarifying and correcting my misconception in the question. There is therefore no need for prior authorisation from a magistrate. I also read your reaction in the newspaper when it came to the number of bicycle thefts, which has been reduced, which may have to do with telework. You stated very clearly that you want to give priority to the handling of bicycle thefts, because you very much realize that it is a line through the bill if someone's bicycle is stolen and that it causes problems if that person can no longer easily move by bike. You will certainly find a supporter in me to see how we, perhaps through a bicycle register, can reduce bicycle thefts even more.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u21	Minister, many people who are no longer able to pay their invoices are at risk of falling into a negative debt spiral. A lot of bailiffs stick to the usual way of collecting debts. Creditors very often rely on bailiffs who claim the reimbursement of unpaid invoices and have to charge very high costs. The longer it takes to pay the invoice, the higher the cost and the harder it becomes for people to pay off their debts. For example, there is the real example of an invoice of 44 euros that grew into a cost of 3,300 euros in one year. This way of debt recovery only causes people to sink deeper into a debt well. It only benefits bailiffs, debt collection agencies and some lawyers. It will then become what is called a debt industry. Last legislative period the possibility of ethical recovery was included in the current legislation. All debts are centralised so that there is a clear view of the debt problems of a person or family. On this basis, a realistic payment plan is drawn up, so that the family or the person concerned can also pay it off, taking into account the payment capacity. For many families, the negative debt spiral can thus be broken. In addition, some of the outstanding debt is repaid to creditors. Today, however, people depend on the bailiff to be part of an ethical recovery plan. Not everyone uses that. It's not because it's legally possible that it always happens. Recently, peace judges in the media have also raised the issue of the need to address this issue. Together with movement.net, they call for a passage to be inserted into the Court's Code in order to make the friendly debt recovery compulsory. This would oblige the debt intermediary to proceed first to friendly debt concentration and payment guidance. The justice of the peace will then have to approve the payment plan by means of a friendly conciliation procedure and will be able to hold those who do not comply with the payment plan to account. That system would mean a win-win situation for everyone, both for creditors, who see their debts repaid in this way, and for the people in debt. After all, they can pay off their debt and ensure that the costs do not go further. Minister, you may be aware of the problem of the reprehensible debt industry. What do you think of the peace judges and movement.net's proposal to legally anchor the first effective application? Are you in consultation with the sector, with the peace judges, with movement.net? What steps have you already taken and will you take to prevent people from falling into a negative debt spiral as a result of claims? Apart from this proposal, there are other proposals on your part.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is the law of 20 December 2002 which lays down the regulatory framework for the immediate recovery of consumer debts. This concerns the recovery of debts through the transmission of payment reminders, defaults and other, outside any legal proceedings. Abuse has been identified in the past. This led to an amendment and revision of the law by the Economic Recovery Act of 27 March 2009. That is when Article 2 was amended. There was also a letter from the National Chamber. Like you, I do hear that a minority of bailiffs and debt collection companies are pursuing practices that go in the direction of what you say. The profession as a whole must not be put in a bad light by the behaviour of a minority. In the meantime, as you know, several initiatives have been launched or foreseen with a view to achieving more ethical recovery, which must try to remedy the problems. First of all, I would like to refer to a legislative proposal to amend the law in question in 2002. That bill 55/0267 aims to frame and reduce the costs borne by the consumer at the stage of the amicable recovery of his debt. The legislative proposal should also contribute to improving the situation of persons in financial difficulties. A second initiative was launched in 2015, on the initiative of several local bailiffs and under the impetus of movement.net Antwerpen, in particular MyTrustO. According to the website, a person in financial difficulty can make an appointment with an advisor bailiff to produce a document giving an overview of the financial situation. The advisor to MyTrustO will then contact the creditors of the person concerned to negotiate a payment plan, taking into account all of his debts. The disadvantage of that service is that it is paying for the creditor and for the debtor, which means a reasonable threshold. I think that the proposal of the peace judges, which you cite, is an interesting one. In addition, there are other proposals, such as a communication platform used in your city of Antwerp between the OCMW and the bailiffs to avoid over-indebtedness of the most precarious people. Mrs Lanjri, as you can see, there are several slopes on the table, each with its own advantages and disadvantages. At the moment, I am talking to the various actors to arrive at a recovery procedure that is at the same time more humane, faster and cheaper. This reflection should lead to a comprehensive reform of the legislation, which I would like to present to Parliament this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is true that there are several initiatives. Besides, I don't want to stigmatize anyone. So I do not want to claim that all bailiffs are enriching themselves on the hood of people in debt, but it is. That this is happening is not only determined by me and you, but also by peace judges. In this context, there are several initiatives, including in my city. The initiative of MyTrustO, which you mention, I also know very well. The slope that is now being launched is certainly worth investigating, in my opinion, so that what we have provided for in the law, but which we find is not usually used, will be used. Whoever uses it today will have nothing against it. We will, of course, support those who are trying to reach an amicable settlement today. In this way we get the small group that enriches itself on the hood of people in trouble, as it is legally anchored and mandatory. I am glad that you say that you think it is an interesting slope, that you want to examine it further and that you will put forward a proposal before the end of the year, which we can discuss in Parliament. That's what I'm looking forward to. I hope it will be a solution this time, which really means a win-win situation for everyone. Creditors must be able to recover their money, because that is their right, but we must also put an end to the situation in which a debt of EUR 44, for example, will soon reach EUR 3,000 by way of fines.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u24	Mr Minister, today I am addressing the special situation of ASBL TEMAT, "Don't touch my friend", to convey a more general concern. Indeed, six times since October 2020, this ASBL has tried to have its new statutes validated by the Brussels Commercial Court, which works in closed offices. Of course, all mailings are made by registered mail - which is an important budget for a small BLSO such as this one. In the last letter from the Brussels Commercial Court, the administration noted that there was no proof of the new payment, as the amount paid by the ASBL in 2020 was no longer relevant. She had sent only proof of payment - which is the missing element. It seems, however, that it should have sent the complete file, together with all the copies and documents which the Brussels Commercial Court would not keep between each letter. Minister, you know that updating the statutes of a BLSO is not only an obligation, but also a crucial aspect for its proper functioning. Very often, associations are made up of volunteers, do not necessarily have much time to spend on administrative matters, while they can only spend a modest amount of money on this type of procedure. Minister, is this an exceptional situation? According to your information, are other CBHAs experiencing the same difficulties? How can we explain the lack of follow-up between mails? Why not offer them the opportunity to send mails and folders digitally? Indeed, this measure would reduce administrative costs and time, while allowing for better traceability and proper follow-up of files? Are you considering administrative simplification in future for the procedures to be followed by the NSAs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u25	Mrs Matz, thank you for your interesting question. We have carried out a concrete examination of the file. It appeared that the application for publication of the statutes coordinated by the ASBL was never submitted in its entirety, i.e. in accordance with the Royal Decree of 29 April 2019, the Circular of 28 December 2007 and the Memorandum of Service 1bis drawn up by the President of the court under the legislation. As soon as this irregularity was found, the complete file was returned to the applicant with a request for rectification and returned with all the documents. It was noted on several occasions that the documents submitted were incomplete. For practical reasons, a monitoring system is not possible for the Brussels Business Court. The Registry of this Court receives up to 200 requests for publication per day and does not have the storage space necessary to keep all applications. For this reason, incomplete files are returned in their entirety with the request to complete the file and then return them with all the required documents. The problems this association has encountered in publishing the coordinated version of its statutes are therefore due to its failure to comply with administrative procedures and to fail to return all the documents requested. I fully understand that this approach seems archaic and resembles an administrative and Kafka labyrinth and, as a result, I have requested that I be drawn up the path to this issue. Luckily, we're gonna change that. The e-Greffe application of the Justice FPS allows all citizens to create an on-line FPS. I have explicitly requested to modernize e-grafts to allow NSOs the digital filing of private amendments to the statutes for the general public. Currently, a digital deposit is already possible through the intervention of a notary for authentic modifications or through the VSDC (Vlaamse study in documentatie centrum voor VZW's, the Flemish Centre for Studies and Documentation for the ASBL). This association is authorised, as part of a pilot phase, to intervene for amendments to private statutes. The goal is that by next summer, all NSOs will also be able to file their private amendments. At that time, it is no longer useful to transfer a paper file from one party to another. I beg your pardon for this administrative maze. The problem will be solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u26	Minister, I thank you for looking at this particular situation, which, of course, raised a more general question, since it does not happen to them alone. If I understand correctly, it is impossible for the court to "fill" the various files, given the number of requests made to it per day. It goes without saying that an electronic procedure, as you suggest, or in any case the extension of an electronic procedure for other administrative procedures seems ideal in terms of costs, efficiency and, above all, time spent on what these CBHAs are dedicated to. Minister, in view of the fact that we have mentioned a deadline next summer. Is it about the summer of 2021 or rather the summer of 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u27	This is the summer of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u28	I hope that this can be implemented at that time. I will certainly point out to them, as far as their current files are concerned, that each time the file as a whole must be filed. You have to send the complete file the first time and not send parts separately. As you said, it's not funny for associations that most of the time work with volunteers. I hear that there is a demonstrated and concrete will in the summer of 2022 to implement an electronic procedure. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u29	Minister, I have already raised this issue with your colleague responsible for Asylum and Migration and he has referred me to you. There are many incidents and riots involving illegal immigrants or asylum seekers. You and your colleague have already made strong statements about this. If non-Belgen were involved, they could be deported. However, the information I have received from the Secretary of State shows that in practice it has not happened. You may, of course, contradict me if progress has been made in these cases. However, they often date from last year. It was found that the parties concerned had not been deported at all. Only one person was locked up and I am currently asking what the end result is. Furthermore, no sanctions were actually imposed unless you consider issuing an order to leave the territory to be an adequate sanction. However, this is often ignored. However, you made a strong statement on this matter. When it came to non-Belgen you would do the necessary and safety put you at the top. How do you feel about the impunity of illegal immigrants and asylum seekers in these matters? If, like me, you don't think that's the ideal approach or even scandalous, what do you plan to do to improve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u30	Mrs Van Camp, in your question you mention five concrete facts, including those of 13 or 14 July last year. I took a look at the period from 2016 to 2018 when your partymates served on Asylum and Migration and Home Affairs. I can also quote five incidents from that period. In January 2016 there were two incidents with asylum seekers in the swimming pool of Koksijde, according to De Morgen. After also in Eeklo a complaint came in from a young girl who was harassed at the beginning of that month, more and more pools took measures to manage the swimming. The Nieuwsblad reported that an Algerian on Saturday 6 August 2016 in Charleroi had wounded two police officers with a machete. Maybe he was trying to decapitate the women. He stayed illegally in our country. De Standaard reported that a security guard of G4S caught a group of illegals at night in the Zeebrugse harbor on Friday 9 December 2016 and tried to get them to go. The illegals took some stones, threw them at the cops and fled. The man just didn't get hit. One of the illegals was captured, but he wouldn't have thrown stones and had access to them. The fourth incident occurred on 29 November 2017. I quote from Het Laatste Nieuws: "In the night of Monday 28 on Tuesday 29 November, federal police officers had to make several interventions in the highway parkings in Wetteren and Kalken. Several African refugees made it too furious there. Next to the station in Kwatrecht a house was squatted and decorated as improvised refugee camp. 'It's mop-up with the tap open', says a source at the police.' The fifth incident took place on 19 January 2018. I'm quoting The Newspaper. "On the night of 18-19 January, immigrants attacked six federal road police officers with sticks and rods when they controlled the highway parking along the E40 in Groot-Bijgaarden. The officers were surrounded and attacked. It was only after one of the officers fired a warning shot into the air that the migrants fled. Figures provided by the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State have already shown that the number of incidents involving illegal immigrants in highway parking has grown exponentially in recent years. Moreover, it also shows that the vast majority of the transmigrants arrested are simply released. From April to September 2016, of the 3,228 arrested transmigrants 58, or 1.8%, were effectively expelled from the country in West Flanders." Mrs Van Camp, you mention five incidents, four of which concern the DVZ and an expulsion. The expulsions are not within my jurisdiction. For these reasons, I would like to refer you to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. The third incident, on 26 April with that seriously injured man, is within my remit, but in this connection I, along with you, note that the Justice Department has done its job. There was an incident and the suspect was locked up. You know this government is investing in security and justice. We are pursuing a swift, human and punitive justice. We are also making additional resources available for this. Justice must take appropriate action against crime, regardless of whether the criminal offences are committed by people with or without documents. When it comes to people without papers, the Justice Department and the Foreign Affairs Department agree to an expulsion from the country after the end of the sentence or earlier, if possible, in the context of cooperation with the country of origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u31	Minister, I am very disappointed in your answer. It is really a typical example of umbrella policy: the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration refers to you and says that he is not competent to pass punishments on to those persons and you say that you are not competent to pronounce, while you say in various written media and in VTM News that you will ensure that, if there are non-Belgen involved in the facts, you will follow that up and that they can be deported. In practice, however, this never appears to be the case. You say in committee that this is the case and that you do not have a problem with it, because it is not your competence either. I thought the Minister of Justice was responsible for punishments, and so does the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. However, you would rather point the finger at each other about your policy of impunity... you respond to such facts by honking in the media that action is being taken against them, but in practice you and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration simply point to each other and do nothing. I think that's very sad. I also find it sad that you are hiding behind your predecessors' policies with the message that they have done nothing either. You think that's a good excuse not to do anything yourself. Moreover, that is also not true when we look at the facts. You have given an anthology of a number of newspaper clippings from the past few years, very nicely, but if we look at the results and figures, for example on the expulsion of illegal criminals, I can only say that you can be sure to contradict me that under the liberal flag the expulsion of illegal criminals was limited to a few hundred people per year, while under Theo Francken priority was given and raised to about 1,500 expulsions per year. So you can give an anthology of newspaper clippings. In addition, Mr Metsu has made a resolution on the theme of the pools. I hope you will implement that. We have done what is necessary and I can only say that there has been absolutely no action against illegal criminals since the Vivaldi government was in the saddle. Also with regard to these facts, in which illegal immigrants and asylum seekers are involved in riots and attacks against the police, you consider it appropriate to honk in the media that you will act fiercely, but in the committee it appears that you prefer to point the finger at the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration and vice versa. So the illegals and asylum seekers get away with this and the victims remain in the cold.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u32	Madam President, Minister, about a year ago I asked your predecessor about the increase in smuggling in prisons. Due to a strong reduction in the number of visits, prisons were increasingly confronted with packages thrown over the wall. Investment was announced at the time. I refer to my written question, in which I ask for a state of affairs. I would also like to ask you whether technological or infrastructure adjustments have been made to the prisons, for example in Mechelen, where specific investments were planned. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u33	Madam President, Mrs Gabriels, thank you for your questions. The order of magnitude of the problem of the transfer of drugs has manifested itself since the corona crisis and the resulting reduced visitation regime. In 2020, 21 packages were found at a check-up during the walk, most of which were found between the wall and the fence. Some prisons try to take initiatives themselves. Others speak directly with the local Government of the Buildings, the Buildings and Infrastructure Directorate and the Internal Security Directorate of the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions. The general trend is that the overcast has replaced the general traffic via visit. In reply to your second question, I can inform you that the incidents are being monitored locally. These figures show that we can generally speak of a rising trend. Thirdly, on what form the smuggling takes, I can tell you that smuggling remains largely in smaller packages which are being thrown over or catapulted. Recently, a package was intercepted under a truck thanks to good cooperation between the police and the prison. For your fourth question, I can inform you that physical transfer protection exists at different locations. However, this security has only limited added value. In most locations one can go far enough backwards, to reduce the throwing angle. If necessary, a tennis racket or slingshot is used. Cameras with intelligent video analysis also have limited added value. There's a detection, but the prison staff is always late to recover the packages. Inmates go in group around the package. It's impossible to see who's recovering the package. In reply to your fifth question, I note that in Leuven-Help the wire closure was increased. In Leuven-Central, front frames were placed for cell windows on the ground floor, to prevent packages from being picked up. In Root, camera coverage was improved to avoid blind spots. Concertina wire was placed to avoid climbing the perimeter of the walk to pick up packages. The latter was also carried out in Antwerp. In Dendermonde the gate of the adjacent government building was raised. Further research and preparation are additional measures in Ypres and Mechelen. This is done in Ypres as a result of the imminent renovation project. For your sixth question, I can tell you that camera surveillance outside the perimeter is useful as evidence for the police Additional checks on adjacent public domain by the police have a deterrent effect, but are not blissful. A number of arrests have taken place. The correct figures can only be given by the police. In Mechelen, the city, the police, the public prosecutor and the Justice Department see what is possible within their area of expertise. According to DG EPI, it is being examined to what extent camera surveillance can be improved, allowing faster detection of an overcast. This will not prevent the overcast, but will make it possible to react more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u34	Thank you for the overview, Minister. Apparently, they're creative after all. One can never completely avoid it, but I can see that it is being thought about using as many techniques as possible everywhere. As you yourself say, there's nothing that's blissful.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u35	According to the figures in my possession, the vast majority of drug laboratories that were dismantled in 2020 have a close connection with Dutch criminal networks. This number is estimated to be over 30% higher than in 2019. This increase is mainly observed not only at the borders of our country with the Netherlands, but also at the borders with Germany. The Federal Police also indicate that Dutch traffickers favour this relocation, particularly for reasons of freedom of movement, which is clearly easier in our country. So, Minister, are you aware of this problem? It would appear that, at the judicial level, the various Belgian and German actors are in favour of increased structural and systematic collaboration, but that they should face communication problems. What collaborative measures have been taken between the various Belgian and German legal actors in this area? Similarly, what practical steps have been taken to work with the Dutch judicial authorities to stem this problem? How, in practice, could these measures be strengthened in order to meet the wishes of the actors on the ground? At European level, what are the cooperation measures specifically linked to the fight against narcotics and in which Belgium is actively involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u36	Colleagues, I would like to provide you with a graph showing the evolution of the number of drug storage and dumping laboratories detected at national level for the period from 2012 to 2020. It will be sent by e-mail today. In recent years, the number of laboratories has increased steadily to a record 28 in 2020, an increase of 47% over 2019. On the other hand, since 2018, the number of spills has decreased significantly. There is a lack of chemical waste spills into soil or sewers. The number of storage sites has remained fairly stable for the past five years. With regard to your second question, the Netherlands and Belgium have for years been a hub of drug trafficking and production. The criminal ties between the two countries are close and many Dutch criminals do not hesitate to expand their illegal activities in Belgium as well. This applies not only to synthetic drugs, but also to the production of cocaine and cannabis. However, Germany has recently also faced an increase in drug-related crime and the Dutch criminal network. Each country has its own legal system and police structure, which also has its own characteristics. The treaties and cooperation structures allow cooperation with neighbouring Germany, which is of course a necessity in the fight against serious crime which, by definition, is cross-border. Let us think, for example, of Europol and Eurojust. Concerning the cooperation of the border region between Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany specifically, there is also the ESB – the Euroregional Cooperation Office – established in Maastricht, which streamlines judicial and police cooperation between Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany. Let me turn to your third question. The Benelux Treaty on Police already offers many opportunities for cross-border cooperation in the prevention, investigation and detection of criminal offences. This promotes cooperation with the Netherlands in the fight against drug-related activities. Strengthening cooperation between the Netherlands and Belgium is an important aspect of the strategy of our police services. I would remind you that this cooperation is explicitly reflected in the current National Security Plan. In addition to the continuous intensification of operational cooperation, specific judicial and police networks have been established in order to harmonise the respective strategies. For the past 10 years, the Dutch Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the Dutch National Public Prosecutor's Office have held regular consultation meetings at which they discuss issues related to both large-scale cannabis cultivation and synthetic drugs and cocaine. Experts from Belgian and Dutch customs and police are also involved. Besides this, there is also the Hazeldonk concertation between the Netherlands, France and Luxembourg. The Benelux Secretariat, which Belgium will chair in 2021, has identified this problem as a priority for 2021 and has taken initiatives to explore possibilities for closer cooperation in the area of information exchange and the problem of postal shipments containing drugs. To answer your fourth question, in 2018, a bilateral consultation network (...) was created; many representatives of the Dutch police and the Belgian federal police meet periodically. During these consultations, expertise is shared. Operational aspects are discussed and possibilities for supporting joint projects are identified. The bottlenecks detected in cooperation are reported through the Fedland consultation I have just mentioned. With regard to your fifth question, I believe that Belgium has long defended and pleaded with conviction for greater international cooperation. Benelux has often acted as a test ground for international cooperation treaties. Let us consider the key positions our compatriots have held or still hold in organisations such as Eurojust and Europol. At European level, our country is particularly active at Europol level. Belgian information is thus systematically shared for analysis. Questions relating to the acquisition of expertise, the facilitation of operational cooperation or the improvement of the vector's approach (...) are, for example, at the centre of these projects. The Federal Police is involved in many European cooperation actions. It participates in action plans and cooperation related to crime and drugs, in the organisation of international conferences on drugs – for example, the syntec(?) conference. – the exchange of information and operational expertise, the organisation of webinars and training in the fight against drugs, international conferences on various topics such as the problem of precursors, darknet, aviation, etc. As part of the European ESF "turning" project, in January 2020 the Federal Police organised a European training course on the detection of drug production and trafficking. Close cooperation has been established with customs, the Dutch police and other partners such as the National Institute of Forensics and Criminology (INCC).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u37	Minister, thank you for your precise and detailed answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u38	Minister, in recent months penitentiary officials have become victims of violence very often, too often. This is not only about verbal violence, but also about physical violence, often resulting in disability. This disability will often result from the physical injuries that may have been incurred, but there are often psychological consequences that we should not underestimate. Eventually it is the place of work for those penitentiary officials, and people are actually being attacked at the workplace where they have to go afterwards. We need to get back to work between people who may have been attackers. I can imagine that this is not an obvious exercise and that this can weigh heavily. In recent years, have we indeed noticed an increase in physical violence against penitentiary officers by inmates, or is that a perception? How many officials are at home at the moment as a result of aggression against their individuals? You work on aggression control, but what exactly is the policy on aftercare for penitentiary officers who were victims of violence? Do you have such a policy? If so, what does that mean? Do you think there are improvements there? If so, what will you change about it in the short or long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u39	Mrs De Wit, the figures on aggression are included in the answers to your written question 256 and Mrs Safai's written question 604. However, this is a census of staff who have fallen victim to aggression recognised as an accident at work. That aggression can indeed cause multiple casualties. Moreover, these figures refer to all forms of aggression, including verbal aggression. There is no general increase in physical violence against penitentiary staff. As far as your second question is concerned, there is no inventory of the figures available regarding the incapacity for work due to aggression. It is impossible to extract it from other already registered data. Therefore, those figures cannot be communicated. Each penitentiary establishment shall have a local reception team composed of selected and trained voluntary staff responsible for the first reception, support and support of colleagues who have been subjected to aggression during the performance of their duties. If these victims need more appropriate help, they will be referred to specialised external services. Some attacks require collective debriefing. In that case, the psychosocial service of the Red Cross is called upon. As I said to you on 5 January, I naturally consider the well-being and safety of my staff to be important. Of course, there's always room for improvement. My administration evaluated the procedures already in place. A refinement has been achieved, so that a traumatic experience in every prison is treated in a uniform manner. For example, it is important to provide sufficient recruitment and training for reception teams. My employees who become victims during the execution of their work receive the best possible care in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u40	It is a pity, Minister, that we do not have any figures on this matter. I believe that the correct policy on this can only be pursued if it is mapped out. Measuring is always knowing. Maybe you should think about a system to take stock of this. I'll check the numbers. I will also read my colleague's question. It is good that there is a team of volunteers and that there is a referral, but we have to be careful. Aggression at the workplace where one has to go back to, seems to me to be a horde of what one has to go about. I believe that this deserves our attention. Sophistication is one step, but we still have to consider whether it will be necessary in the long term. I don't think we should just leave this blue-blue. It's too far-reaching. This is certainly a point of interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u41	Madam Chair, Minister, magistrates sound the alarm and point out the lack of resources and arms. The magistrates explain that they are overburdened. The workload is enormous and the pace is steady, as the number of files is considerable. In addition to this, the mobilization of personnel for the super-trials we have recently experienced and the overload of work due to the health situation. Difficult conditions not only for all FPS Justice officers, but also for those who are the first victims of these difficulties, with delayed files, delays in fixing not held, hearings reduced to a few minutes. The consequences are important since this generates frustration for the people who end up losing confidence and no longer believing in justice. In the presentation of your policy note, you expressed your wish to see justice be faster and more humane. In this context, you have also put forward your wish to restore confidence to the people who are litigants and to increase the number of employees for the various departments. Minister, how do you deal with the problem of the shortage of magistrates? Are new commitments planned? What is the status of the workload for the implementation of the statutory allowance? And until then, how can we allow magistrates to manage their missions in good conditions without prejudice to the interests of the litigants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u42	Mevrouw de voorzitster, dear colleague, thank you for your questions. As at 1 May 2021, the number of judges at Headquarters was 1,473 out of a cadre of 1,621, i.e. 91 per cent filling, and 29 appointment procedures were under way. The number of judges in the Public Prosecutor's Office as at the same date was 839 out of a cadre of 947, i.e. a filling of 89 per cent, with 13 appointment procedures under way. In addition, 71 referendums and 275 prosecutors were also recruited. There is no legal framework for these functions, but as you know, these people provide effective and important support to the judiciary. There are still 346 people here. My services, in collaboration with the College of Courts and Courts and the College of Public Prosecutions, regularly monitor the staffing situation. It is up to the colleges to develop concrete job plans to open. In this context, 35 vacancies for judges for the seat and 34 vacancies for the Public Prosecutor's Office were published on 4 May and 14 May, respectively. In the meantime, the headquarters has sent me a new proposal for the publication of 42 vacant posts. Furthermore, you are aware that, in the context of the refinancing of the justice system, additional resources have been provided in the form of an interdepartmental provision. The Colleges shall determine the distribution of the various positions of magistrate provided for in this framework. As soon as the relevant preparations have been drawn up, they may be made enforceable by publication in the Moniteur belge. For your second question, both the College of Courts and the College of Public Prosecutions are working hard to keep up with the workload. This task is carried out by the Colleges themselves, not by my services. You rightly ask when this workload assessment will replace the current legal frameworks. There is general agreement that courts and prosecutors must be provided with the means and persons appropriate to their needs. For this reason, this measure is continuing. However, I can inform you that real progress has been made. By this summer, the College of Courts and Courts will be able to perform a simulation of field needs. It will then be possible to identify and refer to major trends in the preparation of job plans. It has been noted that there are still some shortcomings in this first exercise. To remedy this, a new measure will be carried out in 2022 and 2023 simultaneously in all courts and according to the same methodology. This approach will also enhance cross-cutting comparability. This measure of workload can then serve as a model for future periodic allowances and is expected to be completed by the end of 2023. By the end of the year, the College of Public Prosecutors will be able to determine the measurement of the workload of public prosecutors. By June 2022, the exercise for public prosecutors in civil matters, labour auditors in criminal matters and public prosecutors' offices should also be completed. Measurement of the workload at the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office is planned for the end of 2022. As already mentioned, the Colleges themselves draw up plans for the positions to be filled and can already take into account the needs they see in the field, for example from the initial results of the workload measurement. This is therefore important. However, as you have already seen, we are not waiting to schedule specific reinforcements for magistrates, according to specific priorities and needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic482x.u43	Minister, thank you for that answer. I hope that the announcement of these measures will help to give a little hope both to the magistrates so that they can carry out their missions in good conditions (human and material), and to the litigants since they expect a more humane and faster justice.
