ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u1	The question was addressed to Mrs Khattabi, but will be answered by the North Sea Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u2	Minister, you will have noticed that I have tabled a number of oral questions, all of which deal with aspects that you deal with in your 2021 policy paper. You will find it a little early in the year, but I think it is important, especially for a member of the opposition, to ask you regularly about the progress of things. At the end of last year, the European Commission urged Belgium to improve national rules on the environmental impact of public and private projects. In particular, it concerns the transposition of the Directive on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment. Belgium would not have correctly transposed the Directive into national law, either at federal or at the level of the three Regions. These are mainly irregularities relating to information flows. For example, the use of electronic communications would not be required, clients would not be obliged to provide the authorities with all the necessary information, nor would authorities be obliged to share the information with the public. There are also some other procedural imperfections. Belgium received a letter of formal notice, in which it had the time to reply until 3 February 2021, i.e. last month. If Belgium does not, the Commission can take further steps. Mrs Van der Straeten replied in January 2021 in our committee that at federal level, the complaints from the European Commission relate to the law of 20 January 1999 on the protection of the marine environment and its secondary legislation. That was the responsibility of the Minister for the Environment, but that was corrected and passed on to you. I believe that this law on the protection of the marine environment is also addressed in your policy paper. Minister, what is your response to the letter of formal notice? Was a coordinated response given on behalf of the federal government or was a separate answer given by you? After all, the FANC Act is also endorsed and another minister is competent to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u3	As Minister for the North Sea, I can give the following answer. Indeed, on 3 December the European Commission sent a letter of grievances about the Belgian transposition of the Directive. The letter, as you rightly say, was addressed to the regional and federal authorities. The Federal Government's response was delivered to the European Commission at the beginning of February. The North Sea Minister is responsible for the protection of the marine environment and its legislation, in particular for the licensing of activities taking place in sea areas. The legal basis for this is contained in the Marine Environment Act of 20 January 1999 and in the Implementing Decisions, which date back to 2003. From that point of view, therefore, my collaborators, in close consultation with the Marine Environment Service, the MUMM scientific institution and the Directorate-General for Shipping, have studied the Commission's grievances. Some of the comments made by the Commission are certainly justified. We will take the necessary steps to amend the legislation on this point. However, we cannot agree to some of the comments. We have provided the Commission with the necessary arguments to rebut the grievances. With regard to timing, I can say that the letter from the European Commission comes at an interesting time. We have already announced in the policy paper that we would review the law on the marine environment. That review is now in full swing. I intend to submit a draft law on this matter to your committee by the summer. Once the law has been passed, we will be able to review the necessary implementing decisions. Mr Ravyts, you have also asked questions about sand extraction and the regulations of the FANC. I do not have all the powers of the government, so I have to refer you to the Economic and Home Affairs colleagues respectively. They're authorized to do this. Finally, I should also like to say that consultations have been held between the various departments in order to prepare the response of the federal administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for the state of play. That's right, there's a lot going on. The forthcoming revision of the Marine Environment Act may respond to a number of concerns and comments from the European Commission. I suspect that when we deal with the draft law we will find out which cases you do not agree directly with.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u5	Mr. President, Minister, a political note published on January 20, 2021 by the International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD) reveals a significant increase in marine pollution from land-based activities. Adopted by 108 Governments and the European Commission in 1995, the Global Programme of Action for the Protection of the Marine Environment from Land-based Activities (GPA) has made progress on various forms of pollution. However, some shortcomings have since been noted and are related, inter alia, to marine litter and nutrient management. Minister, can we get information on Belgium's commitments at national and European level under the GPA? Can we assess the impact of our country's land-based activities on marine pollution? Are future initiatives envisaged to combat this phenomenon, particularly at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report to which you refer identifies nine categories of marine and coastal pollution sources. It should be noted that measures to combat these sources of marine pollution are primarily the responsibility of regional governments. As far as federal policy is concerned, the Marine Environment Service is responsible for regularly informing the United Nations Environment Assembly on this matter. We participate as an expert in the ad hoc open-ended expert group on waste and microplastics in the marine environment, which is responsible for examining obstacles and possible avenues for combating all sources of marine waste (plastics and microplastics) and especially against land-based sources. The last meeting took place in November 2020. If you would like more information on this subject, I will provide you with the link to this working group's final report. The Joint Research Centre (JRC) of the European Commission, which deals with this issue at European level, identifies households, cities and public spaces, municipalities, coastal areas, waste treatment sites and ports as main land sources. In order to assess the impact of such activities, a distinction must first be made between land-based activities directly at the source of the waste and those indirectly. In addition, the way in which waste ends up at sea and the possible ways to combat this phenomenon also determine the impact. Take the case of masks that end up at sea, a very current problem! This is an example of direct pollution! On the other hand, domestic wastewater is an example of a source of indirect pollution. The best way to combat indirect pollution is to tackle the problem at the source and to build awareness. I refer in particular to the campaign against oral masks at sea recently set up by my services. With regard to indirect pollution from domestic waters, it is preferable to opt for other techniques such as wastewater treatment. We can go even further. For example, in Courtrai, we even planned fines, as in Brussels, for people who throw their butts on the ground. With regard to waste on the coast, the OSPAR Commission has set up a monitoring system for Belgium, specifically for this type of waste. As a result, the vast majority of this waste, 49%, was made up of single-use plastics such as cups, corks, cotton-tips and cigarette butts. They end up on the beach as wild waste, not to mention the fishing nets which are also made of plastic and which represent a major source of pollution. Only 20% of the waste is non-plastic. In addition, the Marine Strategy Framework Directive sets out the framework for close monitoring and monitoring of the development of wild waste. In particular, there is a precise monitoring of the number of waste disposed of on the beaches per year or of the amount of plastic present in the stomachs of seabirds. Initiatives are being taken to combat marine litter, both at the national and subregional, European and international levels. At European level, in particular, various environmental indicators and objectives are highlighted in the Marine Strategy Framework Directive. All European Member States are required to develop an appropriate programme of measures to achieve a healthy environment. With regard to Belgium, discussions are under way on the second programme of measures to be launched in 2022. The project includes, among other things, the development of indicators for micro-waste in the marine environment, the phasing out of fishing lead, and other measures. Other European initiatives which fall, among other things, within the competence of my colleague, Mrs Khattabi, are also relevant in this regard. I am thinking in particular of the European strategy on plastics, which aims to promote the circular economy or the Single-Use Plastics Directive. At the subregional level, the OSPAR Commission has also developed a particularly ambitious Marine Pollution Action Plan, which will be renewed in 2022. In conclusion, as far as the national level is concerned, I refer to the Federal Action Plan on Marine Waste. This plan was launched in 2016 and will be reviewed again this year, as I already announced during the debate on my policy note.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u7	Minister, thank you for the quality of your answer. That is to be stressed, and many could take note of it. Thank you for the relevance of the proposed initiatives and strategies. Congratulations on the adequacy of your policy note. All this makes sense and brings interesting perspectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u8	Mr President, it is a city or city that you know very well, Knokke-Heist. Minister, you pointed out in your policy paper that particular attention would be paid to the investigation of the management and disposal of ammunition on the site of the Horse Market, an ammunition dump off the coast of Knokke, where an estimated 35,000 tonnes of ammunition was recovered from the First World War. We know that the concentrations measured do not pose an immediate danger to humans or to the marine environment. You rightly considered it important to carry out further research on the basis of which a longer-term strategy could be defined. It will ultimately be necessary to decide whether to opt for further monitoring, embedding or clearing. The conduct of tests should also be considered. In other words, you would work out a framework to carry out a risk analysis of all activities in and around the Horse Market. In line with the policy paper, a legal framework for carrying out risk analysis of activities in and around the Horse Market would be established in 2021. You also pointed out that storage would be the most ideal solution, provided a number of conditions were met, such as the exact location, the availability of techniques to safely land such items and of course also a suitable site for storage. I am well aware of the fact that the problem has been going on for a very long time and that you cannot solve the whole issue in a few months' time either. However, it is important that we take a look at what you are doing with the dossier in the interim. Minister, what steps have you already taken with regard to the legal framework? What's the timeline? Have any steps been taken on the technical aspects of safe landing? Are there any ideas for a suitable site for storage?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u9	Mr Ravyts, thank you for your questions. The legal framework for carrying out the risk analysis has already been prepared by my administration. Two pieces have already been prepared. Firstly, a draft ministerial decision to carry out the risk analysis and also to establish the decision-making procedure for activities with a possible impact on the Horse Market zone. Secondly, a draft royal decree that will determine the fee for assessing the risk analysis, for the activities that may have an impact on the Horse Market zone. The procedure for drawing up such a risk analysis is comparable to an environmental permit application. A fee should be paid for the assessment as it covers the costs of the assessment by the scientific experts. Since risk analysis is a new activity which has not yet been provided for in the Marine Environment Act, we need to create a legal basis here too in order to impose that fee. This text is also in preparation and will be submitted to the Council of Ministers and to this committee and Parliament in the coming weeks. I would like to point out that I have always said that additional research is needed to determine the long-term strategy. There are three possible strategies: do nothing and continue monitoring, capturing or mountains. I never indicated that mountains would be the ideal solution. By the way, based on the scientific information we have at our disposal, we can say that mountains or enclosures would do more harm than good at the moment. I'd like to clarify this. To clarify the feasibility of such operations, please refer to three factors: the exact location of the ammunition, the availability of the techniques to safely land the ammunition and the appropriate site for its storage and destruction. The exact location will be the subject of a study prepared by my services. In early January 2018, the Flemish government issued a public contract to determine the potential innovation in salvage techniques on the Horse Market. However, we have recently learned that this study meets a number of, often technical, challenges, in particular the difficulties in scaling up a pilot study to the whole site and monitoring the environmental impact during the work. That's gonna put us in trouble anyway. At the moment, my services, together with the relevant knowledge institutions, are looking into the need for additional actions. It may be derived from this that the techniques for safe disposal are not even available at the moment. We have to be very careful with that. Effective treatment of the ammunition is preferable to its storage. At present, therefore, the feasibility of a recovery will have to be demonstrated before there can be a scaling-up of the processing capacity. The DISARM project is a research project led by VLIZ, in which the laboratories of Defence and the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences, the KBIN, are also involved. This project ends in 2023. This will make recommendations on the most optimal approach to managing the site. These indications will be combined with our own, still to be carried out, studies to develop a scientifically based strategy by 2024. The issue on the Horse Market will therefore not be resolved in this legislature, as I have already said when presenting my policy statement and policy paper. In addition, we also follow with great interest the research of Ghent University on the possible accelerated degradation of the pollutants in the ammunition through the use of micro-organisms. This option may also be a good alternative to the storage room.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your very interesting and comprehensive answer, which nevertheless contains a number of new elements and which is a further deepening and refinement of the issues announced in your policy letter and your policy paper. It was by no means my intention to suggest here that you would have resolved the issue of the Horse Market in a few months. I think you have very well unfolded the difficulties that will arise in the coming months and years. I am looking forward to the legal preparation, which is of course also important, even if it could not be followed directly by a concrete approach on the ground because of the difficulties you have outlined.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u11	Mr President, Minister, following the offshore wind session organised by EnergyVille - for which you gave the introduction - a number of speakers mentioned the possibility of increasing the current target of about 4 to 4.5 gigawatts of offshore wind to 6 gigawatts. This would only be possible if a set of very specific conditions were followed and optimal planning was carried out. Combining them with other functions in particular would make this planning and coordination very necessary. Today it is not entirely clear to me whether the scaling-up in itself is feasible or whether there is any support for the various users of the North Sea that we are talking about today. Moreover, I have already put my question to your fellow Minister responsible for Energy. However, since she also referred to you in part, I would of course also like to propose them here. The questions I have are next. First of all, is or has the scale up to 6 gigawatt been discussed within the government? Is it intended to do an exercise on this or is the scaling-up not on today's agenda? Secondly, do you wish to take initiatives in your capacity as Minister to carry out a feasibility study in this area or do you think that the objective of about 4 gigawatts, which we have talked about so far, will prove to be the maximum achievable in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u12	Mr President, Mr Wollants, I understand that you have already asked these questions to my colleague on Tuesday, 2 March. She replied. I checked those answers and they are of course excellent. So I am referring to that answer as well. I would like to add three small points so that there are no misunderstandings, because I am totally in line with Mrs van der Straeten on this point. Firstly, we need to focus on developing as much offshore energy capacity as possible in the Princess Elizabeth Zone. That's what we're doing. You know that the government took a number of important decisions a few weeks ago to have additional studies carried out. Secondly, I believe that, within the framework of the North Seas Energy Cooperation, we should work towards strengthening cooperation outside territorial waters in this domain. You know that our country is chairman. Tinne Van der Straeten is holding that presidency. Thirdly, I refer to the famous session of EnergyVille on offshore wind. In the coming years, we will examine how an additional scale of offshore energy is possible within existing zones. That is in addition to Mrs van der Straeten's replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u13	However, Minister, I found it useful to ask you the question because Minister Van der Straeten pointed out that this is a joint competence, but also because the other sectors which may be implanted or which need to be coordinated fall within your competence rather than within the competence of Mrs Van der Straeten. We look forward to the further steps being taken. We shall follow it closely. The scaling up also affects the high-voltage grid. We must also pay attention to this, so that at the end of the journey we not only have the capacity on the sea but also the connectivity to the inland, because that remains a major challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u14	Minister, the problem of deep-sea mining remains in Parliament. Last month the resolution on this matter was discussed in plenary. Flemish interest has supported the majority resolution because we consider it important that Belgium should continue to play an important role in the debate and not be outside the framework, as one group in Parliament did propose. Indeed, on 4 March 2021, Ms Wilmès reported that Belgium will become a member of the Council of the International Seabed Authority in 2023. That is the executive body of the Seabed Authority which controls all activities on the seabed of non-territorial waters. In principle, the Seabed Authority is responsible for everything that takes place on the seabed, when it falls outside the jurisdiction of the national states. Within that framework, the regulatory framework is being negotiated, including the rules for seabed mining. We know that, within this Council, Belgium will argue that the precautionary principle should be respected in the drafting of regulations on exploitation. The next few years will be crucial. An important aspect in the Belgian context is the fact that you announced, together with the Minister of Economy, that the legislation would be reviewed. An updated, clear and binding regulatory framework for deep-sea mining is needed, including the precautionary principle and the polluter pays principle in addition to strict environmental standards. Belgian legislation must be complementary to the international framework. This has been the subject of a draft text since the end of 2020. Your predecessor, Mr De Backer, has also been working on this. In November 2020, you announced that there is still an exchange of views between the relevant administrations, as Mr Dermagne of Economy is also on the move. What is the state of play with regard to the development of this legal framework? Can you explain the broad lines of this framework in the light of the expertise in this country with regard to deep-sea mining?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u15	During the debate on your policy paper, Minister, you indicated that you would be submitting a proposal for the revision of the Belgian legislation on deep-sea mining to this committee this year. You said that the government will not wait for the Mining Code drawn up by the International Seabed Authority. When can we expect your draft and on what points will you amend and supplement the legislation? What is the relationship between the Mining Code and the Belgian legislation on deep-sea mining? Should Belgian legislation not be registered in the Mining Code since it is based on a higher legal order? In other words, how can you adapt Belgian legislation and bring it into line with international legislation if international legislation is not yet finished? Do you have any idea when the Mining Code will be completed? What position does Belgium defend regarding the Mining Code with the IZA? In what way will you incorporate the majority resolution in order to comply with the precautionary principle and anchor it in the law? What action have you taken to respond to the request No. 1 of the same resolution, to further support basic scientific research on deep-sea mining?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u16	Mr President, we are indeed delighted that our country is certain to have a seat in the Council of the International Seabed Authority (IZA) before 2023, thanks to a joint effort by this government. In 2025 or 2026, we will also be able to vote in the same Council by means of agreements that have already been made. This is important because in this way we can influence the international framework that is currently being developed around the exploitation of the seabed in the famous area. You know that our country is an absolute pioneer in that respect. As we were at the time with wind at sea, we are also for deep-sea mining. I exaggerate when I say that the whole world is looking at us, but we are certainly an absolute reference. As I stated earlier in my policy paper, the necessary legislation will also be drawn up at national level. In a first phase, we will work with a framework law containing the general principles and then we will work on them through a series of implementing decisions. Mrs Daems, you correctly state that national regulations must be in line with the international framework for deep-sea mining. This will be determined by UNCLOS United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and also within the International Seabed Authority. We are providing for stricter or additional measures in our framework legislation, which should be adopted this year, to safeguard Belgian interests and better protect the marine environment. Mr Ravyts, you asked what the main lines were. There are two main lines. A first main line is the basic principles I have mentioned in the past, such as the precautionary principle and the polluter pays principle. This will be taken into account. They will therefore be included in the framework law. The second main line is that, in the context of transparency for the award of a sponsor certificate, consideration should also be given to how the assessment of environmental impacts can be organised with a corresponding public consultation. The timing is next. The draft text is currently the subject of debate and consultation between the ministers concerned and the administrations. In spring 2021, we will also consult other stakeholders, including NGOs and industry. The draft law will be submitted to Parliament in 2021. Mrs Daems, however, the exact timing for the adoption of the Mining Code is not yet known. Originally, it was the intention of the Secretary-General of the International Seabed Authority to have a solution by the end of 2020, which was not possible, because there are too many outstanding points. Our estimate is that there will only be a solution within the Seabed Authority in 2022-2023. Mr President, on the Belgian positions that are being adopted, I would like to refer to the answers given by my sympathetic and intelligent predecessor, Mr De Backer, to questions from Mr Warmoes here in committee in February 2020. I repeat that we will insist, among other things, on the drawing up of valuable regional environmental management plans and the carrying out of a prior, independent and qualitative environmental assessment for each application for exploitation of the seabed. We will also identify marine biologists or environmental scientists as members of the Legal and Technical Commission, which today consists mainly of geologists and lawyers. After all, the body will play a very important role in the granting of operating licences in the future. Finally, Mrs Daems, the resolution was recently adopted. I have just explained that we will, of course, include the precautionary principle in the new legislation. With regard to the first request, in particular to support basic scientific research and data collection, I asked my services to investigate how we could carry it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I can imagine that the framework law is also important for sponsor certificates, environmental impact assessment and associated public consultation. Indeed, the current company, which plays a pioneering role worldwide, has had a voluntary public consultation organised. The legal framework should be improved. I look forward to what you will be presenting to this committee in the course of this year, following the stakeholder consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u18	Minister, I still find it remarkable that you are not waiting for the completion of the international framework for the revision of the Belgian law on deep-sea mining. You say that you will include the precautionary principle in the majority resolution in the framework law. That is good, but my party's position on the matter is clear. We continue to oppose commercial deep-sea mining. The impact of deep-sea mining will be great and inevitable. Strict application of the precautionary principle will inevitably lead to the same conclusion. I will closely monitor this dossier and ensure that you keep this commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u19	Mr President, my final question also concerns one aspect of the policy paper: the Marine litter action plan must be evaluated. The action plan saw the light of day at the end of 2017. It focused on preventing macro- and micro-polluting, both from land-based sources and marine sources. The priority objectives were to raise awareness and raise awareness about the problem of marine litter, to achieve an active reduction in inflow in the Belgian part of the North Sea, to increase knowledge and monitoring of marine waste, to focus on coordination and cooperation and to increase the number of clean-up operations. There were no less than 55 actions and in the meantime a national working group was set up. Seven priority actions were selected from among these 55 actions. This concerns very specific matters, such as research into the replacement of synthetic fishing nets with alternatives, research into the possibilities of landing the filtered or fished waste in dredging or sand mining, support for vocational training in fishing on the problems of litter and so on. Priority was also given to the assessment of the marine environment law, which we also discussed this morning. It was also stated that the permit conditions for all activities and marine tests would include a waste management plan in the Belgian part of the North Sea. Can you provide an overview of the content and explanation of the implementation of the seven priority actions put forward in 2017? How will the evaluation of the Marine litter action plan announced in this year's policy paper take place? Have any steps been taken in this regard, whether preparatory or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u20	Mr President, you asked me to explain the priority actions. I will do that very cartesian, starting with the first action. A national working group on marine litter is set up, consisting of representatives of the federal, regional and regional authorities. That is probably a mistake in the text, because the regional and regional authorities are the same. The task of this working group is, inter alia, to ensure structural cooperation in the fight against marine waste between the competent authorities. The working group meets twice a year, in the spring and autumn. The second action is research into the replacement of synthetic fishing nets with an alternative to combating ghost fish. This action was carried out at OSPAR level and at European level. In particular, a workshop entitled Re-imagining fishing gear in a circular economy was organised in Brussels on 19 and 20 February 2020. Researchers and experts, as well as industry stakeholders, participated in this. My services also took part and explained the pilot project on the recycling of fishing nets. The main recommendations from all the studies currently under way within Europe have been brought together in an OSPAR paper. You can of course find it on the OSPAR website. These recommendations will be taken into account in the revision of the Marine litter action plan. The third action is research into the possibilities of landing waste in dredging. At the end of 2020, a study was set up to take stock of existing data, draw up a programme proposal, analyse the data and draw up a final report containing recommendations. The first phase is currently under way. The aim is to complete the study by the end of this year. The fourth action is to support vocational training in fisheries. This action has already been carried out. In 2018 the Marine Environment department, in collaboration with the province of West Flanders, appointed the specialist institution ProSea to organise a series of lessons on sustainable fisheries in Ostend for the third degree of the Maritime Institute Mercator. The aim was to make the training take place every two years and to provide a system of train the trainer so that teachers could finally give these lessons themselves. However, in 2020, because of covid, it was not possible to make the lesson series safe. For 2021, the lessons will be back on schedule as soon as they can safely continue. The fifth action is the evaluation of the law. The review and revision of the law is one of the most important points in my policy paper. We will present an amended draft law in Parliament this year. The sixth action is the conclusion of the Blue Deals. In 2018, a declaration of commitment was signed with Wind & Watersport Flanders. Sensibilisation actions have also been set up on the Belgian Boat Show with a federal truck in different coastal communities and through a campaign in all surf clubs. In 2020, Corona threw soot in the food. This year we will explore how we can continue to use the pleasure boating industry, marinas and surf clubs to prevent waste. In addition, my services have worked to promote the blue flag in the marinas. Finally, all activities and marine tests in the Belgian part of the North Sea will have to be covered by the permit conditions that a waste management plan should be drawn up. The Royal Decree of 22 June 2019 added the obligation to draw up a waste management plan to the Royal Decree of 2003. This action was also carried out. Your second question concerned the evaluation of the Marine litter action plan. Actions under the current plan will be evaluated and discussed within the national working group before the summer. The action plan will therefore be renewed. It goes without saying that the actions assessed as efficient are also included as continuous measures in the Marine Strategy's draft programme of measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Your answer provides a good overview of the level of implementation of the seven priority actions of the Action Plan. It is also important that the overall action plan for the summer is updated, I heard you say. I will therefore continue to question you later in the year in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u22	Mr President, the Ventilus project must ensure that offshore wind energy, which has already been discussed with great pride in committee, is properly landed. There is some concern about this, because the project is apparently not undivided among the West Flemish people. There's a bit of a contradiction, among other things with mayors. At least, that's what I read in the media. I have been informed that your Flemish colleague Zuhal Demir has appointed an intent to find a solution. That's a remarkable decision. Windmill parks are a competence of the federal government, while the spatial implementation plan and the permits are a Flemish competence. What is the main criticism? How are you looking at the appointment of that intentant? Is that a good way to solve the problems? Then I have another million-dollar question. What timing is realistic today to make the project operational? Or will our new offshore plans be compromised by the project's difficulties?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u23	Mr Verduyckt, I will confine my answer to what falls within my competence. We live in a federal country and I'm the first to respect it. At the federal level, there is a task force with representatives of the various administrations, the CREG, Elijah and staff of me and the Minister of Energy. His task is to streamline all work to put the new Princess Elisabeth zone on the market by 2023, at the best conditions for the consumer. Of course, it is important that these windmills can also be connected to land at sea. Then, of course, the realization of Ventilus is important. However, the dossier falls within the exclusive competence of the Flemish Government. It is therefore not for me to comment on this. Of course, I am West Fleming and I understand the concerns of citizens and local authorities. I can assure you that colleagues in the Flemish Government share that understanding. As you can see, we are pursuing good cooperation with the Flemish Government. I therefore welcome the appointment of an intentant, so that the appropriate action can be taken by local concerns, so that the 4 gigawatt offshore wind energy will not be compromised by 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u24	Minister, I wanted information with my question, but I understand that you respect the rules of jurisdiction. So I haven't learned much. I've read that you urge your colleague to do something about it. We will continue to follow up the dossier, from the Flemish Parliament, because the project is too important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u25	Mr. Minister, at the beginning of this month there was an article in De Standaard with Wouter De Geest, the former CEO of BASF Antwerp, about the project Antwerp@C. This is a collaboration between six industrial companies from the port of Antwerp, the gas company Fluxys and the port administration. The project aims to capture, liquefy and eventually store CO2 in empty gas fields in the North Sea. The Carbon Capture and Storage technique is controversial given the inherent risk of leakage. It is not a permanent solution for our CO2 emissions. If the stored CO2 is ever accidentally released into the atmosphere, then our emissions suddenly shoot into the air and that CO2 still creates additional climate warming. I therefore have the following questions for you, Minister. In what way are you, as Minister for the North Sea, involved in this project? What permits and/or authorisations should these companies apply for and receive before they are allowed to store CO2 in empty gas fields in the North Sea and to whom should they apply for these permits? What role do the Belgian authorities play in these procedures? What do you think of the Carbon Capture and Storage technique and the inherent risks of leakage?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u26	Mrs Daems, let me start by saying that on the Belgian continental shelf there are no empty gas fields or suitable geological formations to store CO2. So we will not have to issue permits for such activities in our North Sea. The regulation of Carbon Capture and Storage is largely a regional competence. The regulation in this area is not yet complete. In a first phase, the London Protocol and its amendments must be transposed into Belgian legislation. This protocol is a mixed treaty, of which only Flanders has put the ratification in order. At federal level, my foreign colleague will be submitting the agreement to Parliament in the coming weeks. In the Walloon region and in the Brussels-Capital Region, the ratification procedure for my information has recently started. Then there's the techniques. This implementation will be handled and closely monitored within OSPAR. Currently, projects are planned in several countries, but not yet operational. I refer to the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. Two fields are already operational only in Norway: Sleipner since 1996 and Snohvit since 2008. With apologies for my flawed Norwegian. In the annual report to OSPAR on these projects, no leaks or problems were already reported. In addition, there is also a new project, the Northern Lights Project, whereby CO2 is transferred by ship to an onshore facility and from there via a pipeline on the sea floor to an injection point. An environmental impact assessment has already been made for this project, based on possible leak scenarios. The conclusion of this assessment is that the probability of sea floor leaks and the environmental impact in the event of leaks are both very limited. In relation to this last project, I was recently contacted by the Norwegian ambassador, who wishes to investigate whether a collaboration between Belgium and Norway to transport liquid CO2 by ship to empty Norwegian gas fields is possible. My collaborators have already been in contact with the Regions and will jointly examine whether the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between Belgium and Norway is desirable. As Minister of the North Sea, I am aware of the Antwerp@C project, but my services are not directly involved. It is clear that new techniques, such as Carbon Capture and Storage, offer new opportunities, but it is also important to stress that these techniques do not undermine the fact that the best remedy against CO2 is still the reduction at source.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. This was more of an informative question. I agree with you that the best remedy is at the source. Carbon Capture and Storage, however, is often used to defend the status quo and is often an excuse to keep ejecting. That is also our great concern with the Antwerp@C project. Instead of making its own production method more sustainable and thus reducing emissions, CO2 capture is used instead. This is a project that we will continue to follow carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u28	Mr President, Minister, the coalition agreement states that this government is committed to the development of offshore wind energy. Belgium has been President of the North Seas Energy Cooperation since early 2021. The Minister for Energy is responsible for this. Earlier, you said that it was the responsibility of the North Sea Minister, together with the Minister for Energy, I suspect, to make the accumulated expertise available to other Member States of the partnership and to work more closely with other Member States to create offshore wind farms. I have a few questions about that. What actions have you already taken to realise offshore wind farms in the international part of the North Sea? Are there any concrete plans for this? Which Member States are talking about this? Is this also discussed in the North Seas Energy Cooperation? In what time do you expect to realize the first offshore wind farms in the international part of the North Sea? What steps should be taken first? Which are the biggest barriers to the rapid realisation of offshore wind farms in the international part of the North Sea? What priorities does the Belgian government put forward in the North Seas Energy Cooperation for 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u29	Mr President, Mrs Daems, it is true that we have explicitly stated in our coalition agreement that we are going to examine whether additional capacity can be achieved outside our territorial waters, in cooperation with other countries, located on the North Sea. It's about the famous North Seas Energy Cooperation. Mr President, I find it a bit annoying, because we should have told you and Mrs Daems in advance that Mrs van der Straeten is responsible for this matter, both when it comes to the state of research and the possible barriers. So I'm referring to her, but it's my fault. I should have let her know in advance so that the question could have been put directly to her. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u30	The secretariat takes note of your admission of guilt. Mrs Daems, you have heard the Minister's apologies. This is being continued by Mrs Van der Straeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u31	Mr President, I also asked this question to the North Sea Minister, because he had said in the debate on the policy paper that he was also responsible for making that expertise available to other Member States in the framework of cooperation. That is why I asked the Minister this question. I'll question the Energy Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u32	You will have to submit a new question to the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u33	Minister, in the debate on your policy paper at the end of 2020, you stated that you want to review the marine environment law. Belgium likes the fact that today no less than 37% of the Belgian North Sea has been referred to as a marine protected environment. However, this protection exists only on paper. At present, almost all activities with a major impact on the marine environment such as fishing, sand extraction, military activities, recreation and shipping are allowed in the marine protected areas. As a result, the effective nature protection in the marine environment law is in fact an empty box. At what time will you review the Marine Environment Act? When can we expect a bill? On what points will you amend the Marine Environment Act? Will you work on effective nature protection in marine protected areas? Will you require an appropriate assessment for all activities in the protected zones? Will you require an appropriate assessment for all soil-moving activities in the Belgian part of the North Sea? What steps will you take, not just for nature conservation but also for nature restoration and nature creation? The problem is that no one wants to start restoring nature and creating nature, if there is not enough protection and therefore enforcement first. In the other case, a nature project is realized, after which it is destroyed again by some kind of activity. Will you therefore delineate a marine reserve with the exclusive function of nature conservation, as the environmental organisations ask? Finally, do you intend to launch active nature recovery projects? If so, which projects are involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u34	Mrs Daems, as I said on other questions, we will be presenting a draft amendment to the marine environment law by the summer. Once the draft has been approved, we will also take the necessary implementing decisions. You ask where the law on the marine environment will be amended. Every aspect of that law is currently under consideration. Where necessary, the appropriate amendments will be made. Contrary to what you are suggesting, I would like to stress that the framework is already in place to provide the necessary protection for the marine environment, both inside and outside the marine protected areas. For each of the marine protected areas, conservation objectives were established in a scientific way and management plans were drawn up. The appropriate assessment procedure is already applied to most activities taking place in the marine protected areas. For example, an appropriate assessment is requested for pleasure boating competitions, which are only allowed once it is established that the activity has no impact on the marine protected area. Sand extraction is also already subject to an appropriate assessment and to an environmental permit procedure, albeit on the basis of the law on the continental shelf of our country. The exceptions provided for in Article 25 (3) to which you refer are exceptions to the environmental permit procedure. The environmental permit procedure makes certain activities subject to environmental permit, whether or not they take place within or outside the protected zones. The exceptions in that article are therefore independent of the appropriate obligation of assessment. As I have already mentioned, every article and every exception will be thoroughly evaluated and adjusted if necessary. This article will therefore also be examined in the light of what needs to be retained and replaced. As regards the appropriate assessment for all soil-moving activities, an appropriate assessment shall be made to assess whether an activity has no or no negative impact on the protected habitat. An appropriate assessment should therefore be made on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the specificity of the protected zone. In February last year, on behalf of my services, a study was carried out by Arcadis on the improvement of environmental performance and active management of nature in the sea. As you rightly point out, projects of nature restoration and nature creation are not evident unless adequate protection and enforcement can be guaranteed. Moreover, such projects are not cheap either and are better looked forward to projects that create a win-win situation. There is a need to look for areas that are closed for soil erosion and to examine what nature restoration activities can be carried out. My services are currently taking all the preparatory steps to close 285 km2 of marine spatial plan to the Belgian part of the North Sea for land-moving activities. The installation of wind turbines should also include erosion protection layers consisting of hard substrate. If the hard substrate is chosen well, the erosion protection layer can provide an additional habitat for the gravel bed fauna and an interaction between the fauna on the natural gravel beds and the fauna on the artificial hard substrates of the erosion protection layer can arise. This year, a study will be prepared to provide additional insights into the application of nature-inclusive designs as an incentive for biodiversity in wind farms. These results will be taken into account in the further development of the Princess Elisabeth Zones. So we do intend to do a lot of things. Also under the environmental permit granted for the sea farm, an obligation to actively restore nature was introduced. We are currently working on a new legal framework to protect the marine environment. Only then can it be considered which policy options can result from this. Finally, I have just outlined in detail which projects will be launched for active nature restoration and what we are already doing. We are also looking at the possibilities in the context of the development of the new wind farm zones. Within these zones we look at the possibilities for soil-moving activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic408x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is crucial that marine protected areas are effectively protected. The loopholes in the law need to be closed urgently. I call for this to be done in the context of the revision of the marine environment law. I look forward to your bill.
