ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u1	Commissioner-General De Mesmaeker, Mrs Keuterickx, welcome to our committee. There's a hearing on the Chovanec file on the agenda. Colleagues, first of all, let me outline the history. We have already had a series of hearings on the Chovanec dossier. On 1 September 2020 we had a hearing with former Interior Minister Jambon, with Mr De Mesmaeker and with former Commissioner-General De Bolle. On 23 September we had a hearing with Mr Kormúth, the Slovak Ambassador, Mrs Van Calster, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Bilateral Affairs of the FPS Foreign Affairs, with Mr de Jong, liaison officer to the FPS Foreign Affairs, and with the Desenfants, the Director-General of the Administrative Police. The case was also discussed by the P Committee, where an investigation was launched, which has been completed. The P Committee was also asked for a number of additional research actions by the advisory committee. Commissioner-General, on 12 January our committee decided to invite you again to a state of affairs concerning the internal investigation of the federal police following the investigation report of the P Committee, of course. On the one hand, Mr Vandenput's specific question was the report in the press that Mr Desenfants was restored to his post and, on the other hand, your commitment to be heard here. I would like to give you the floor for a statement. Then the members of the committee will have the opportunity to ask the necessary questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will give an update on various aspects, including internal administrative investigations in the federal police. I hope that this information will be relevant to you, but there must be a balance between the information that can be given and the obligation to respect the disciplinary procedures under way. I don't want to be the one victuring some kind of procedure. There are five shutters, which often come back in my answers to this or that instance. The first part concerns the internal administrative investigation, the second concerns the influx of the substance which we have already done and which we are still working on. The third is the question of the officer of administrative police, the fourth is training, including with regard to EDS, and the fifth is the LPA/Gosselies action plan. As far as the internal administrative investigation is concerned, I have several points to address. First, as I stated at my hearing on 1 September 2020, we immediately requested access to the judicial file. The Federal Public Service (FPS) Justice responded fairly quickly and granted us this access on August 20th. The file then contained 1,600 pages, which we had to examine carefully. Subsequently, we redrafted our application requesting that we also have access to the documents attached to the judicial file after August 2020. This has led us to see that the judicial investigation is still ongoing and expanding. Thus, the number of pages in the file has almost tripled since then. We are now reviewing all these documents. Secondly, on the basis of the analysis of the first 1,600 pages, carried out by my department, which is responsible for internal control and quality monitoring, the latter took the initiative of making a denunciation on the basis of article 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation, having found some discrepancies in the documents. Justice has therefore been informed of these differences by my department. The third element that I would like to highlight is the following: to ask for the state of affairs of an internal investigation also raises the question of which disciplinary authorities are supposed to intervene in this case. I think it is useful to remind you that these authorities are currently the following: 1. Ministers of the Interior and Justice act jointly as disciplinary authorities for certain agents. 2. The Minister of the Interior is the superior disciplinary authority for senior officers. 3. As Commissioner General, I am an ordinary disciplinary authority, empowered to impose minor disciplinary sanctions on certain staff members. 4. The focal point for the internal administrative investigation is, of course, the Director-General of the Administrative Police (DGA), for most of the staff concerned. Here, I can tell you that on January 6, 2021, the Director General of the Administrative Police partially reactivated section 120, in so far as he considered that he was prevented from continuing to exercise his powers, including disciplinary powers, in this case. Its powers, by virtue of the application of the well-known article 120 in the meantime, were delegated to the Director of the DAO, dated January 6, 2021. If it is said that the DGA is the disciplinary authority, this is currently equivalent to the Director of the DAO. 5. The DGJ, the Director General of the Judicial Police, is also a disciplinary authority, knowing that it has a superior disciplinary authority for two staff members who, in the meantime, because the facts are already nearly three years old, have used mobility towards its component. 6. The RDG, the Director General of Human Resources, is also involved as a disciplinary authority, as it has this competence vis-à-vis two members of the ANPA, from the school, who are also involved in this matter. There are still two staff members, an officer and a non-commissioned officer, who have used mobility in the meantime to the local police, which means that disciplinary competence for them is shifting from the federal to the local level. For the officer in question, he is then the mayor, and for the non-commissioned officer, he is the chief of corps. With all this in mind, I believe that I have set the table of disciplinary authorities responsible for this matter for you. Fourthly, I wanted to tell you today that, on the basis of the information I have gathered, the DGA delegate's intention is to apply Article 56(2) of the Disciplinary Act to certain staff members. What is it? This is a provision of the Disciplinary Act which allows for the suspension of the statute of limitations and waiting until the court has handed down its verdict. The general rule is that once a disciplinary authority is aware of the facts, it has six months to form an opinion and decide whether or not to initiate disciplinary proceedings. August 2020, it leads us to February 2021. We are approaching the period during which these decisions must be made, i.e., either discipline or activate this section 56. According to my information, the DGA delegate plans to activate it for two reasons: 1. the judicial investigation is still running – I have illustrated it to you; 2. the reconstitution of the facts is planned – subject to the provisions covid, on 9 and 11 February next. This is my responsibility from my director-coordinator of the Hainaut (dirco) to whom I gave repeated instructions – as well as from the federal police – from the moment the justice system decided to carry out this reconstitution, to make every effort so that this reconstitution can be carried out in the best possible conditions. This applies to the application of Article 56(2). This means for many staff members that we are going to move on to the pace of court decisions. That said, the Internal Service has already conducted some 40 hearings of staff members. Fifthly, the internal service informed the mayor and the chief of corps that in the meantime they had inherited a staff member who had used mobility and that they had disciplinary competence. Sixth, as far as the incumbent DGA is concerned, I can tell you that on 11 January 2021, I was informed by letter from the Minister of the Interior that the Minister of the Interior, together with her colleague from the Department of Justice, as the ADS (Superior Disciplinary Authority), has asked the Inspector General to conduct a preliminary investigation. I would like to make it clear that a pre-investigation is not a disciplinary procedure but an investigation to determine whether or not a disciplinary procedure should be initiated. I won't say any more. I do not have to replace the two tutelary ministers who have diligently carried out the Inspectorate-General. I can't do it. I don't know how to do it and I don't want to do it. Of course I'm not going to speak on their behalf. The Minister of the Interior also asked the Inspector General to initiate a preliminary investigation with the same objective vis-à-vis the former Director of the Aviation Police. Seventh, as far as the person who made the Nazi gesture is concerned, you already know from the media that a measure of order has been decided by the Minister of the Interior and that disciplinary proceedings are under way. As for the few members of the staff who fall within my disciplinary jurisdiction, I should like to inform you that, recently, on 28 December 2021, I was informed by the Minister of the Interior that in the present case, according to her analysis, there was no need to initiate a procedure for a heavy penalty and she referred the case back to me for jurisdiction as an ordinary disciplinary authority. This applies to the main axes of the internal administrative investigation with the most important decisions. Once again, since the statute of limitations is very close (mid-February), many decisions will be taken in particular by the DGA delegated in the coming days. The second hatch is about the information flux. On 1 September, I said here in temporary non supecto, when I had assumed the responsibility to lead the federal police that I had already issued my own guidelines and instructions, including on 28 August 2018 on the national raid point and notes on the communication of relevant facts to the hierarchy. I also said that I repeated it by note on 21 August 2020. I can add that on 30 December 2020, so recently, I issued a new instruction for the federal police on reporting incidents. In doing so, I respond to one of the recommendations of the P Committee, which, through the interviews conducted in the context of the monitoring investigation, had noted that not everyone had fully mastered the 2017 note, let alone understood it. It is recommended that this circular, which is related to circular GPI 62 on incident and serious incident reporting, should be revised, should be simplified. I've done that in the meantime. I believe that the content has now been translated into a highly vulgarised language in respect of my units, on the date of 30 December 2020. It's been realized. In the light of the report of the P Committee and the report of the Supreme Court of Justice, what is still going on? It's about the communication between the Justice Department and the police, and I think it's one of the great lessons from the whole file. The Supreme Court of Justice has also made recommendations on this matter. I would like to inform you that on 25 November I sent a letter to the President of the College of Attorney General to say that I and my staff are available to cooperate in the refinement of existing COLs, the redirections. We have received a dilapidate response from Attorney General Johan Delmulle, which has led to police and justice already sitting together to complete and refine the letters, including COL 4/2003. A first meeting took place on 12 January 2021, in which, among other things, my head of the cabinet took part. The next meeting is scheduled for 16 February. So we can say that our race will have a refined COL, which I think is very important, both for the police and for the judiciary and for society. In this context, I would like to inform you that, of course, we are not waiting for new COLs to learn lessons and to act dily. For example, in the case of the dramatic death of Ibrahima, to whom I extend my condolences to his family, access to the file has already been requested by the Chief Constable and my office. We have recently gained access to this from the Attorney General of Brussels. At the moment, the arrangements are being set out to see how police documents and images can be obtained in order to take the necessary measures, whether or not order measures, if necessary. This shows that we learn from the past together and that diligent working with all actors in the field is possible. I thank the Justice Department for that. We are also working on another recommendation from the P Committee, stating that it might be advisable to draw up additional rules on communication between cabinet, administrative and technical secretariats, federal police and integrated police. This process is ongoing and will also result in a document of any kind which will follow the recommendation of the P Committee. The third part deals with the role and responsibilities of OPA, the administrative police officer. In this connection, on 1 September last, I had already said that I had issued an instruction on 21 August, stipulating that from now on the administrative police officer should come to the scene as soon as the physical integrity of a person, whether a third party or a colleague, had been violated. In addition, this instruction recalls that adequate information about the OPA by the police officers involved is essential to enable the latter to fulfil its role and to assume its important responsibilities in an optimal manner. Saying it or prescribing it is one thing, doing it is something else. That is why, on 12 October 2020, I issued a note inviting – to say so – the DGA and the DGA front-line units to make a synergy with the deconcentrated units of the DirCo, if necessary, to organize together their guard and permanence roles for the OPA. This was also noted in the report of Committee P. It is true that it is difficult to return an OPA at 100 km or more. There is indeed a need to reflect on this. That's why I asked them to work in synergy and that at some point, at the limit, it was an officer of the DirCo who was OPA in the district concerned. I can assure you that the DGA carried out this request with a note dated 7 December 2020. In concrete terms, they are now organizing themselves, within the district, administrative police and DirCo services, jointly, and this is a good thing for the internal synergy and coherence of the federal police. That is the case with the OPA, where I believe the measures have been taken. There is now a need to check that they are being followed and that they are proceeding smoothly. The fourth part is about the EDS, the excited delirium syndrome, and what has already happened. From our speech of 1 September and from many answers to parliamentary questions, you know that we worked macro in three steps there. First, we have made a training effort in the field of the special units....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As far as the latter is concerned, we have developed a four-step strategy. The first step, in line with our commitment on 1 September, was to quickly generate a prevention sheet from the Prevention and Protection Committee at Work and to make it available to all the first-line police officers as soon as possible. That's what happened. That sheet was distributed and distributed on 21 September 2020, so fairly soon after the committee meeting. The prevention sheet of the Committee on Prevention and Protection at Work, as drawn up in other sectors, was therefore the first urgent measure. The second step is module 1, the awareness: giving our people training, so that they can recognize fairly quickly that they are dealing with an EDS, because good action starts with good diagnosis and recognition. For that module 1 an approval file has been drawn up and consulted with the syndicated organisations and a syllabus has also been drawn up. The module 1 is in full roll-out. Today almost 200 trainers have been formed from the principle train the trainer. The module is organized in such a way that by Easter, as far as COVID-19 will allow it and in so far as all duty schedules allow it, some 7,000 first-class staff will have followed that training. The awareness training can be followed remotely and is a module of four hours. The third step is module 2. For module 2 we are currently finalizing the recognition file, which should be discussed with the trade unions, and the syllabus. This will be on the agenda of the CCGPI or Coordination Committee Integrated Police, in which local and federal police will be sitting together next month. Afterwards we will go to the High Consultative Committee, to enter into dialogue with the trade unions. The aim is to roll out module 3 on the approach of EDS, after it has been well recognised that one is dealing with EDS, after Easter 2021. That is a little more difficult in the present circumstances. After all, you understand that this is a practical training with role-playing, in which we look at the four common EDS situations with the people of the first line. These four common situations are: an EDS in the private home, on the public road, on emergencies and in police cells and restricted spaces. That is the third step, which we will have to complete in 2021. The fourth step goes wider. EDS is very specific, but besides EDS there are many other psychological and psychopathic conditions and ailments. The starting point is that this is not just a police matter, but rather an area of many other actors, which requires a multidisciplinary approach. This fourth part is carried out under a steering committee, including the SAT Interior, with four sub-groups, namely the Police sub-group, the Justice sub-group, the Home Affairs sub-group 112 and the Santé publique sub-group. At some point all four will be brought together by the Steering Committee. It concerns a much wider package under the heading of dealing with confused persons, who can have a whole gradation. In terms of training, a part has been realised and a part is currently under way. In any case, there is still work to be done. Fifthly, there is the LPA/Gosselies action plan. In August, we appointed a new director ad interim. I added a crisis manager to that. That tandem is still very intensive at work. The new director has made his own SWOT analysis and has developed an action plan LPA/Gosselies. If there's a question, he can come and explain it himself. After about six to seven months of work, he will and should be able to give a clear explanation around Easter. I can tell you in advance that the action plan he has developed for Gosselies has been spread over six axes, six themes, and that he has identified some 80 action points. Those six major axes are work on policy and strategy, work on structure and organization, work on information and communication, work on leadership, integrity, culture and deontology, work on human resources, les moyens humaines, and work on material resources, les moyens omriels. This action plan, which it has triggered, is therefore divided into six axes and 80 actions. I propose that after six months, just before or just after Easter, he come to explain this to you in more detail after his experience of the first six months. It's an offer I'm making. To indicate what he is doing and what is going on, I will give one or two concrete examples, well aware that the P Committee will carry out an audit. You know that very well. He will, of course, also cooperate fully on this. The other part of the day he deals with his action plan. Let me give you three practical examples. Its first action is the introduction of a new timetable and a new group organisation allowing for better supervision of inspectors by the principal inspectors. This is a first concrete action, which I consider very positive. The main objective is that our staff be better supervised by working in fixed teams of x people with the same coaching staff. We've made good progress in this area. The discussion with the trade union organisations in the basic consultation committee is scheduled to take place on 5 February. To cite a second concrete example, the Director-in-Office has already organised and will continue to organise meetings with Myria. The third concrete measure is aimed at combating island cultivation. For example, it has taken steps to ensure that the aviation police participate in full integrated police action (FIPA) actions under the covid-19, at the request of the dirco Hainaut. There is also an obligation for Level A officers to visit the other units of the aviation police. I could still give you a lot of examples. But I suggest you hear the director who told me that he was willing to give you the details of his action plan so that the operation in Gosselies can improve from day to day. So far my explanation according to the five shutters, Mr President. I am prepared to listen to the questions and answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u3	Mr De Mesmaeker, on behalf of the committee, I would like to thank you for this very comprehensive and detailed presentation of what you have already done in connection with the Chovanec case, but also on the steps you intend to take in the dossier, in the structure, on training and action plans. I have certainly remembered that the offer is valid to hear the crisis manager here about his SWOT analysis, about the six major steps you have listed and the 80 action plans associated with it. I shall now give the floor to the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u4	Mr President, I would like to thank the CG for the very clear statement. A lot of questions have already been answered. My first question concerns the internal investigation. I fully understand that under Article 120, the DGA leaves its powers of disciplinary action to someone else, but that does not seem clear to me to the person in question. I was wondering how that person would be framed. That seems to me to be a difficult task, given his position at the DAO. I also understand very well that the six months have come to an end and that the choice must be made or disciplinary proceedings initiated or not. Article 56, second paragraph, waiting for a judicial inquiry, also makes sense to me. You gave the example of other cases where a prior investigation takes place first. Am I to conclude that no disciplinary sanctions have been pronounced yet? Has anyone spoken against a measure yet? That is not entirely clear to me. You have also explained that a few people have moved elsewhere through mobility. That makes sense, but isn't it very difficult for the disciplinary authorities there? I'm thinking of a local mayor or the DGJ to deal with that? Are there any exceptions that allow them to refer discipline to someone else? I think it is a very good proposal to have the new director LPA here in a few months' time, as the concerns about LPA are already very old. I'm also glad the guy seems to know how to handle it. That's very reassuring. I am glad that EDS will finally be dealt with multidisciplinaryly. Many steps have already been taken internally, but I continue to argue in favour of the multidisciplinary approach. That was clear last summer. I understand that this is going on, but I do have some urgency. According to the Minister for the Interior, the multidisciplinary working group should not lay its eggs until the end of the year. Can you confirm that? You didn't talk about the well-being of the policemen. What is the impact of events and media coverage on this issue? How did that come across to the service itself, to your own organization? Is there any attention to that? Is that where some kind of debriefing happened? Is there a specific service on that? How does it react internally?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u5	Thank you, Commissioner General, for the clear and clear information. I have some mixed feelings about that. On the one hand, I am reassured that a number of important recommendations in the Committee P report have been taken into account and that they have been put into effect immediately. I am thinking of the GPI 62, how to tackle EDS and how to shape it. I wanted to ask you about this, but you have already dealt with the issues yourself. There, action has been taken rather quickly to remedy and respond to a number of important recommendations. On the other hand, I am also deeply concerned about the disciplinary procedure. That is a general concern not only in the case referred to, but also separately. You yourself mentioned why. There is a limitation period of six months within which a decision must be taken on what will happen. It is of the utmost importance that there should be no statute of limitations. For example, at the end of February, we should not be told that a number of cases are time-barred, because a decision has not been taken in time to suspend the time limit for proceedings due to criminal investigations or because the decision on what to do has not been taken in good time. It is of the utmost importance that this does not happen. It is better to decide that there are no disciplinary facts. I would prefer people to think that there is nothing going on for certain people, and for others, rather than having a birthday, because then we know nothing. I do not know if it is in your power to deal with this intricate disciplinary procedure. In any case, the limitation period is a matter of concern. It must not take place at all. In addition, we are also concerned, which you have also outlined well, about eight disciplinary authorities. Finally, is there not an urgent need for a thorough review of the disciplinary procedure? As our colleague said, it is now two or three years after the facts and some of the policemen involved are no longer working on that service. They might be able to work for the federal police elsewhere. In that case, the disciplinary procedure is not easy. But they can also be active in a remote area of the country in a local police zone. Imagine being mayor there and opening a disciplinary file on something that happened at Gosselies airport. Let's get started. That's not a gift. In fact, we, as legislators, are not allowed to do that, I say from my gut feeling. In fact, the mayor or the Chief Constable of Veurne, of Aarlen or of Tongeren should not impose any obligation on them to decide on discipline for those concerned and to take responsibility for it. Should I be a policeman with a very bad character, but with a very good knowledge of disciplinary legislation, I would, if I had done something like that at Gosselies airport, immediately look for another job somewhere with a local police, as far away from Gosselies as possible, in the hope that the procedure will go completely to hell and that I will escape. If I continue to work in Gosselies, there is the greatest chance that a file can be built against me in a normal way, with knowledge of the facts. For example, colleagues involved together may eventually be treated in a different way at the end of the journey according to where they work today and who is their disciplinary officer today. For one, maybe you are, for the other, the mayor or the chief of police of a local government. I therefore believe that this aspect should be taken into account in a broader exercise in the disciplinary procedure. That is also in the coalition agreement, by the way. In any case, this explains why the disciplinary procedure needs to be adapted. Can you assure us that there will be no statute of limitations? Can you do the maximum for that, as far as that is within your jurisdiction? I come to my specific questions. You have pointed out that a number of people will be covered by Article 56, waiting for criminal proceedings to end. I am also concerned about that. It's a complex file. It's been a long time. There's still a reconstruction to be done. When the investigation is completed, there is still the settlement of justice, the procedure at the boardroom, possible additional investigations, the possible referral of some to the correctional court, the treatment on the substance and the institution......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That could take another five years for a court of appeal to rule. After five years, shall we bring back to life the disciplinary procedure that has now been put in place for some people? What will they say? Should we impose a disciplinary sanction five or six years after the facts? So where do these people work? I am also concerned about this, because it is not possible to intervene quickly where it may be necessary. I understand it's difficult when there's a criminal procedure pending. That's also a concern. Can you tell me in how many files do you call on Article 56 to wait until the end of the criminal investigation or for a judgment? How many people are not covered? How many files for decision are on your desk? Can you tell us that? Apart from the procedure, there were a number of aspects that you have not yet discussed, Commissioner-General. You have spoken about the GPI and EDS, but the P Committee has also recommended that we work on culture and leadership. What initiatives have been taken in response to these findings and recommendations? I understand very well that, in the area of culture and leadership, a circular letter and a decision do not suddenly make a 180 degree turn in an organization where things are not going well. Recent events also raise questions about the use of cameras. How's that going, anyway? There are often cameras in commissaries, in cells. There'll be an incident. Did something happen? Didn't anything happen? People don't know. Sometimes it takes a long time to use the camera footage. Are further rules necessary, in your view, in order to be able to gather the necessary evidence quickly and adequately in the event of an incident, or is everything going well? Or do you think that's gonna work over the next few weeks? Despite the many questions, I am pleased with the information you have given us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u6	Commissioner-General, first of all, you stress that the judicial investigation is not making progress today and that you are kept up by the pace of the investigation. I hear what you're saying. But if it can be audible with respect not to short-circuit this judicial investigation, it is not audible at other levels. Many measures, organizational choices must be taken now and can, in my view, be taken without prejudice to the investigation and without waiting for its conclusions. These measures generally concern the organization, structure and not just the serious individual facts before the courts today. I think that at the same time, we need to move forward. The elements updated by Committee P's investigation are overwhelming for many people at different levels of the federal police. The complete short-circuiting of the hierarchy raises questions. It is not possible to decide whether it is pure and simple incompetence at times, idleness, lack of organization. But, always it is, it has been highlighted. There are also direct interferences with the firm at the time. That also raises the question. And then there is a certain inertia of the SAT, if I may say, which, at the time, does not seem to worry that the firm is making direct contact with the services. These are all things that ask questions. I can hear your state of affairs. You highlight measures that have already been taken, but other much more urgent measures are expected. All of the evidence points to major misconduct with respect to the aeronautical police. You are referring to the fact that measures have been taken with regard to the function of custody OPA. Yes, that's right! The Director of the Aeronautical Police was, at that time, an administrative police officer on guard, but the fact remains that he was also replacing the DGA until his vacation return and that he did not provide him with the relevant information in such an important file that he had arrived in his own service, while on guard but also had another cap. Today, it is not just the serious, terribly serious factual problem of an incident in Gosselies. This is a problem that affects the entire aviation police and today raises questions as to what structural, organisational and disciplinary measures we will be dealing with this airport police. I come back to what I said earlier, I don't think that requires waiting for judicial conclusions. I also go back to the problem of communication, which is deficient everywhere. This is of course the case with the aviation police, but it is also the case with the Protocol Service which does not go back to the note verbale of the Slovak Ambassador, for example. At various locations, middle managers are clearly failing. The question then arises of the very organization of leadership, of the functions of middle management. The information does not circulate, at any time, according to the intended routes. It circulates, but not as it should circulate. Deficiencies are highlighted. I ask myself the question of the disciplinary procedure. I agree with my colleague from Ecolo-Groen, who says that complexity and mobility cannot under any circumstances exempt follow-up. We cannot reach a statute of limitations, nor can we achieve impunity. In concrete terms, what measures are being taken to correct the shooting, to avoid these prescriptions, to avoid impunity? How can we have an authority that will ensure, from the moment of the facts to the moment when a disciplinary decision is taken, follow-up, regardless of the movements of the persons concerned within the various structures of the police? In this case, I will also go back to article 56. What happens to the agents? Are they ruled out? Are they in service elsewhere? Are they kept in office because they are there? Article 56 shall apply. F right now, they're there with a wait, compared to them. I ask myself the question of the functioning of our police in parallel, during this period. What follow-up has been given to them? You indicate that in the area of communication, the flow of information, you have taken a circular. It's a good thing, of course, but there was a circular before. We can make many circulars and arrangements. I have no doubt that this is the result of a desire to change things. How will you be assured that this circular is being followed? What control tools will you be able to deploy to ensure, this time, the proper execution of the circular and the proper flow of information? A debriefing took place a month after the facts. This raised the question of the obvious indifference of the head of department, if I may say so, who was on leave on the scheduled day. This isn't the first time there's been trouble in debriefings. In practical terms, how are these meetings organized? Who are the participants? What are the protocols surrounding these? In particular, I always ask myself: how and why did the trainers only have access to excerpts from the images of the intervention? While everyone saw these images, obviously, they did not arrive in this debriefing either, as should have been the case. On the other hand, there is short-circuiting of structures. I wish I could hear you on this. Nor does it require judicial findings to act. There were short circuits. Very soon it was found that the then minister's office (Jambon) made direct contact with the director of the aviation police to obtain information on this file. Why doesn't he go through the SAT at that time? How can we ensure that things are clarified and respected? Today, what is needed is a structure. The line of command must be respected. We must have the guarantee that it's not short-circuited and that it's not bypassed. It is your role to implement it, absolutely. So what about the measures taken to put an end to these practices, which were clearly common at the time and do not have their place? Is there any other case where this approach, in complete breach of the normative framework, has been practiced? I'm getting to my last point. There is the ongoing judicial case but also the importance of organizing discipline and expectations internally. I want to talk about Nazi salvation. I cannot, of course, conclude without addressing the other aspect, which seems to highlight a "unhealthy normality", with many quotes, within certain services at least. Obviously everyone is aware of this issue of Nazi salvation. And this is not reported. No, it doesn't. This may be the subject of sarcasm in the corridors, and of trivialisation, but this is not clearly reported. Sorry, it's still unbearable for me today. Everyone in the department knows what happened. And everyone is silent, or worse, nobody sees the problem, which is even the most shocking. No one sees the problem beyond saying, "We can't do this! It's not okay." It's not just that we can't do this. It must have consequences. We're waiting to see how you're going to put, beyond training and behaviour, measures in place so that it doesn't happen anymore and that it's well regarded as something that's "no way in my police". How are you going to get there? This is really important, Commissioner General. In conclusion, one cannot be content with the trivialization of a fact. It wasn't just Gosselies, not just a victim. It's already too much by the way. It is not a measure that needs to be taken, it is a real awareness of the need to provide structural and organisational responses, which, in my view, cannot only go through circulars and training, and which cannot, in any case, wait for the conclusions of the judicial investigation. I'm really counting on you to take the bull by the horns.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u7	Thank you, Commissioner-General, for your statement. I will give you a brief picture of the situation and then go straight to the questions. However, I would like to reiterate that the questions raised here and the situation outlined here are in stark contrast to the 40,000 policemen who do their job well. We have all heard and seen the Committee P. This clearly showed that the police summit had no knowledge of the footage and should have known this. The report gave some good recommendations on how future information flow should take place, as well as on the problems related to culture and leadership within the management of the aviation police. The P Committee also discusses, among other things, a lack of sense of responsibility and risks in terms of integrity. On 1 September 2020 you came to the Chamber and gave a lot of explanations. Following the internal mechanisms and procedures which, according to the findings of the P Committee, have not worked, I would have liked to hear from you what adjustments have already been or will be made so that relevant information always reaches the right person. A double check is also mentioned. If there has been an incident and a report is made, how is the possibility of a double check registered today? Is that already going on or is there still work to be done on the preparation of police reports? What steps have been taken by now? There will also be a full review by the Air Police Committee P, so that we can also learn lessons from this, especially with regard to the so-called culture of silence. Hence my last question about the whistleblower scheme. It's okay. You talked about the trust service at the Commissioner-General. That's a good start. But it is also essential that a trusted Integrity be appointed, in all directions of the federal police and in all local police areas. After all, we believe that the threshold for going directly to a service, to the Commissioner-General or ultimately to the P Committee is very high. That is why I would have liked to have heard your views on this specific question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u8	Commissioner-General, thank you for your briefing. First of all, as we all have seen: the report of Committee P on this matter is overwhelming and agitating with many alarm bells. I will not go back to all the elements that have been very well explained by the colleagues who have preceded me, but to the issue of disciplinary procedures, on the flow of information and communication, which has highlighted many problems that I will not list. On the other hand, you have provided opportunities for improvement on alternatives. Work is being done to adapt, change and improve these procedures. In this adaptation put in place or under development, does the flow of information go up to the top? For example, does the procedure provide for an obligation, in the event of a serious fact, as in the case of Mr Chovanec, when there is a death or a serious injury in a cell, to inform automatically and necessarily the cabinet of the Minister of the Interior and the hierarchy of the police and whether the cabinet takes a position by opting for an investigation or not. Indeed, the political stance is important, given that the police are under the authority of the Minister of the Interior, in any case, that the senior management takes a position on the matter, provided that it is automatically informed of the facts. Therefore, I wonder if this logic exists to evacuate all this short-circuiting that takes place in this kind of business. Secondly, is it envisaged that the planned changes would give the P Committee more power to initiate disciplinary proceedings. It is therefore not only his powers of investigation and access to the files, but also his ability to expel and institute disciplinary proceedings, if he considers it relevant and important. What do you think of this proposal? These are the technical aspects that need to be put forward in order to improve procedures. But, Commissioner-General, I would like to go back to the fact that this is, in fact, a much more serious and far broader problem. This is about the Chovanec case, but it is not an isolated fact. There's a routine aspect of this kind of case. In other words, this kind of case is increasingly highlighted. So I can only think that there is a structural problem in our police. Today is 26 January 2021, the first month of the year has not yet expired and two deaths are already to be regretted in Brussels police stations, following police checks. How is it that, in a rule of law, deaths are recorded in police stations after a routine check? It's not normal! What message do we send to the population, to the youth? What is the relationship of trust between the police and the population? How can this relationship of trust be established with the current functioning of the police? Commissioner-General, there is therefore a structural and operational problem within the police. Many aspects therefore need to be revisited, in addition to procedural issues. Indeed, we speak of procedure when serious facts occur in the police stations. But the question arises as to why such events occur? Why are there deaths in police stations? How can we act to ensure that such acts do not happen again? I'd like to remind you that we've had several cases. More than ten years ago, there was the Jonathan Jacobs case. At the time, it was said that this should no longer happen, that action should be taken. And then we end up with the Chovanec case and we wonder what has been done since the Jonathan Jacob case, since we find the same problems. After the Chovanec case, we're told that it's going to change, that it can't happen again. And boom! Right after that, there are other deaths. I'm not even talking about the video of the two police officers patrolling Anderlecht. Again, there is a short-circuiting of information. Here too, there is a certain opacity about what is happening. How, in this context, can trust be restored between the police and the population? Whenever there are such disasters – because they are disasters – it is said that this will no longer happen, that we will change, we will make every effort to ensure that this does not happen again. And boom! And that doesn't stop. It's going on. After the Chovanec case, I remember, when I sat here in committee for the hearings and the debates, I had the impression, from the speeches I heard opposite, that it was over, that the alarm bell had been drawn, that everything was going to change and that such a fact could no longer happen. And a few weeks later, there are other deaths. It's not normal. I wanted to draw attention to this fact. Because we can talk about the procedure, what does not work in the communication, the hierarchical relationship and the fact that it is short-circuited. All of this we can discuss, we must reform it to make it more effective. But the basic problem is that there are people who die in police stations. And it takes place in opacity. Mr Chovanec, if the video had not been released two years after the facts, it would not have had such an impact in this debate. The video of the two police officers also dates from 2018. It is only now that we have this information. According to the various articles that have circulated on this, there is even one person within the police who has tried to warn about it and to take responsibility for putting the disciplinary procedure in motion. She's been ruled out. Therefore, questions arise beyond the way disciplinary proceedings are conducted. How is our police structured to arrive at such disasters, which are followed by impunity? Most of the various agents we are talking about are still on duty. That's a problem. This is a problem that must concern us all as Democrats, because we want a society in which everyone can find their place, feel confident and be a full citizen. This goes through those who are supposed to set the example. How can police officers ask the public to respect the law if they themselves do not respect it? What credibility do they have? What example is given to the population? How can people be required to be disciplined and enforce our laws if those who are supposed to enforce them do not respect them? It's not normal. This society cannot function like this, and we see it: in the present climate, tension is palpable. It's dangerous. When I talk to the various people around me, I see him. When I try to encourage people to follow the legal and democratic paths to defend their rights, to use the opportunities that our society gives us to react to certain abuses, my speech is increasingly inaudible. People no longer have confidence; it is a serious problem. If we want to answer that, one of the first things is to consider the structural problems that exist in our police. The communication problems that came out here in this Chovanec case are only the consequences of a much more serious problem. I think there is a need for a strong and determined will to take up this problem with arms-to-body. So far, Commissioner General, I did not have the impression that we were pulling an alarm bell and that a large red light said: "Warning! It can't go on like this anymore! If we continue like this, we're going to something explosive." I do not feel that, either on the part of the executive or on the part of the highest authorities in the police. I think that as long as we do not realize the seriousness of the situation, we will not respond to the tension we are living in today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u9	Commissioner-General, I would like to thank you for your presence and your expert, comprehensive explanation. We've been waiting for it, but it's also a good time. After all, you have also been able to provide recent information and explain what has already been put in place. First, you mentioned learning, improving and analysing in your argument or explanation. It is very good to do so, not only because of the fact but also because of other facts, both at the federal level and in the local areas or at the LPA/Charleroi. I have one question on this, which my colleague, Mr van Groen, has already asked. It is really necessary to change the disciplinary procedure. We really cannot allow the limitation period. If we want to start a disciplinary procedure at local level, that is a complex matter. So I can imagine that it will become impossible when it comes to a combination of elements. The disciplinary procedure must therefore become more realistic and pragmatic. For example, even if someone has applied for mobility to another zone or place, the disciplinary procedure and disciplinary authority remain at the place where the event was committed. That would be a good step, because in that place is also the knowledge of the facts and the responsibility. So the local mayor, who doesn't know anything about it, shouldn't do that procedure. A second matter is what we will do with all this information and how it could have happened. You rightly refer to the ongoing investigation, which we must wait for. We have not yet been able to comment on it. We must let the court do its job, even though it has been quite a long time. You referred to internal communication, but we read disturbing things in the report of the P Committee. In that report we see that following a question from the press, the press department contacted the head of service LPA in Gosselies, but that no service at your predecessor's office, the Director-General, informed the Director LPA. So the whole superstructure was not informed. There was no communication flow from Gosselies upstairs, which one could expect in such a serious incident. I ask myself questions about that. In the report we can also read that video footage from the cell, including the nazigroot, would have been circulated internally in a WhatsApp group of police officers. I think it is very strong that this can be done in such a group, but that the higher hierarchy, for example Mr Desenfants, did not know that at all. This shows that there is something structuralally wrong with the mentality of the people on the ground at the LPA, especially here in Gosselies. Also procedurally, the file is full of mistakes and missed opportunities. We read Triggers several times in the report of the P Committee, but the Committee points out a problem with culture and leadership in the aviation police. My specific question is how this could be distorted. Isn't there a check on that? Several audits have been carried out. Mrs De Bolle did an audit in 2014 at Brunat, not in Gosselies but at Brunat, one pot wet I would say. Of course, this has led to recommendations. Have they been implemented yet? It is not normal that there is such a mentality at the LPA. Can you explain what has already been done and what is yet to happen? The committee also notes your offer to bring the new head of service of the LPA here to explain all this in more detail. I understand you can't know all that yourself. Then I'll come back to the P Committee. I did frown on my eyebrows when I read point 4.4.1. It is about the handling of information by the then cabinet. "The cabinet asks this question directly to the LPA Executive Board, without the hierarchical line, i.e. DGA or CG, being informed." A little further, it says that the DG SAT, that was you at the time, considered the question in question by the cabinet to be a question of fact rather than an order, provided for in Article 99. "At the same time," you said, "but when he first saw the e-mail, he had doubts that this would have gone better through the SAT." The following paragraph states: "However, it is more fundamental that several respondents in the Committee P's investigation argue that during the period in question many questions came directly from the cabinet to the police and that the hierarchy was ignored." This turned out not only to happen in the event of urgent or punctual incidents, but also in the case of strategic aspects. Examples of the preparation of airport security plans and the installation of railway police in stations are given. In such cases, too, a lower hierarchical echelon was addressed by the cabinet and summoned to the cabinet, without involving the CG or the DG, probably not the DG SAT. You were also present here on 1 September, together with former Minister of Security and Home Affairs Jambon. As I said at the time, I cannot get rid of the impression that there was a communication error and even a mentality problem from the cabinet of former Minister Jambon, asking questions directly to the lower echelons and so on. Why couldn't you just talk to your predecessor or through SAT about such important matters? I'm still hungry, and full of disbelief about how that happened. I am not saying that the cabinet is responsible for the Chovanec case, not at all, but we could have noticed the alarm bells much earlier than what the P Committee's report reveals. It is a file with many missed opportunities, with many alarm bells that went off, but were not picked up, not by the cabinet and not by higher echelons, for various reasons. I hope that we can also take this with us, in order to change the procedures and the mentality in a structural and sustainable way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u10	Mr De Mesmaeker, I would like to thank you for being here in committee and for having an open debate on a matter that finally took place almost three years ago. For me, it's the first hearing on the case. I haven't been a Member of Parliament for very long. It goes without saying that the facts we are discussing again today can at least be described as very serious. I'm gonna go over this again. A man didn't get help and died. He was even laughed at. The highlight was that an agent even delivered the Hitler greeting, which was seen by security services, who didn't even call the alarm. In between, some sarcastic remarks were made in the corridors. Colleagues, these facts, as Mr Demon has also pointed out, are an absolute blow to many police officers, who are doing their job today with integrity and integrity. All the possible rules and guidelines provided by the P Committee's report must be followed as closely as possible and deal with them. We are obliged not only to the family, but also, of course, to all police officers in the field who apply the rules quite correctly. Mr De Mesmaeker, I have a number of questions, although a lot of grass has already been mowed away and many of the questions I had in mind have already been answered by you. I'll start with what went wrong in the cabinet. The cabinet has communicated directly with the aviation police against the rules rather than via SAT, which is absolutely a missed opportunity for information flow. The P Committee's report made it clear that during the period in question many questions went directly from the cabinet to the police and that therefore completely ignored the hierarchy. The report also states that the cabinet was alerted to the problem and that it had to be addressed. However, it is unclear when the cabinet was specifically reminded of this. When exactly was the cabinet informed that this was against the rules? That time is an interesting one for me, so I would like to get an answer to that question. Despite the fact that the cabinet communicated directly, SAT was ultimately informed and it was perfectly possible to apply the rules and to inform the DG and DGA. The same day an email to SAT with the title: "Freemd story. Slovak ambassador asks for a meeting with the Minister on this matter." Then alarm bells have to go off and in the end no action has been taken. I still find that very strange that the Commissioner-General and the DGA were not informed in this case. That should certainly be the case in such a case. The report also makes it clear that the main problem lies with the aviation police. All the flow of information stops at the director of the aviation police and the director-general is not informed by anyone of the facts and the consequences. The internal investigation into the Director-General, Mr Desenfants, has now been completed and he is re-employed. May I deduce from that that person has done everything within his powers? Shouldn't he have been better informed, given the gravity of the situation? In addition to the fact that the flow of information has not worked, can one ask whether it was not his moral task to investigate the issue further and put everything in detail? Then there's the fact that the officer in question delivered the Hitler greeting and that a lot of people knew that, too. It keeps bumping my chest that nothing happened, not even after seeing the video footage. Cops were doing a little sarcastic and cynical about that Hitler greeting, which was the subject of jokes. However, at the debriefing on 21 March with all those present, these images were not shown, because it would be too traumatic for those involved. The debriefing was therefore only about the psychic well-being of the agents involved, who may have suffered trauma. However, in the view of the P Committee, there was no reflex to question its own functioning. The permanence officer who served on the night of 23 February, the director of the aviation police, was set aside after the facts. Even he wouldn't have seen the footage. In the report I can see some contradiction. The police officer says she's alerted her head of duty, but the head of duty denies it. Why wasn't the head of the aviation police of Gosselies present at the debriefing itself? What reason did he have for that in the end? Is the investigation into the head of duty still ongoing? Is he still in office as head of the service? Can you explain more about the internal investigation into the head of the aviation police in Gosselies and the director of the aviation police? Finally, why was the head of discipline not informed of the events and was he not asked to initiate a disciplinary investigation against that police officer? I have a number of questions relating to the recommendations of the P Committee. You have given some answers to that yourself. You also said that on 30 December 2020 this was communicated on what you would do with those recommendations. I have a specific question. Did you yourself find that there were some obstacles or difficulties in implementing the recommendations? If so, what were they? You also said that the aviation police's action plan was a very detailed plan. You have suggested that this be proposed to the committee. That can only be seen as positive. We must be very pleased with that and we must seize that opportunity to get as much information as possible from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u11	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the Commissioner-General for the transparency of his statement today, responding to a large number of questions that we had before this committee. As a first point, I would like to point out that in this case, as in other cases which have sparked up recent news, not to impose a strong sanction on police officers who are illegal and who have committed irregularities is to cast reproach on the entire police force. That is why it is a real challenge, in the proceedings, to arrive very quickly with answers to punish police officers who simply do not respect the procedures and the law. We've seen him in some pretty recent files. As early as 1 September, during the various hearings we had, I also told you not to wait for justice to settle. Let us look at the sanctions since the facts were revealed from August onwards, and a number of disciplinary proceedings had to be initiated. I am glad to see that you have taken the leap on this issue and that you are not waiting for the judicial findings. I hope you make it a rule because it's a quicker answer. In various reports, Committee P has indicated to you several times that there is no need to wait for the judicial response to initiate the disciplinary response. In this case, I am pleased to see you take the ball at the leap and I hope that this will be the norm for the future. This answer is different; it punishes not to cast reproach on the whole of a police force which, let us remember, does the job. The proceedings have been initiated since you became aware of the facts and their seriousness. Of course, everything that has happened for two years and that has not gone up to you or to some of the protagonists within the directorates raises questions about the flow of information that is circulating. This is one of the main points identified in the report of Committee P and to which you are trying to provide a number of answers. The whole point is whether it is a form of negligence - in this case guilty - or a willingness to retain information because it was known to be problematic and would result in a whole series of disciplinary procedures and sanctions. Therefore, if you are going to use all the information exchange procedures you want, if the purpose is to retain the information, it will not go higher than the protagonists in a future case. Of course, and others recalled, some were aware of the facts. This was particularly the case of the then Minister of the Interior, who could not ignore the seriousness of the facts, particularly in view of the insistence of the Slovak Embassy, who had met with him several times in order to question him on the follow-up that Belgium was giving to the case. The issue of airport police has also been pinned more specifically and requires answers. We know and have heard that it would be a "state in the state" – to use the words repeatedly heard from members of other police departments – and an "airport police that does not respect the procedures put in place". An airport police force which has singularly lacked resources, which has singularly lacked trained agents on the particular cause to which they must tackle and which, as the various events unfold, can manage to make mistakes and commit irregularities or even illegalities. There was in its time, and Mr Vandenput recalled, an insistent request for a new study on this airport policy to see where the shortcomings are indeed. The lack of staff? Lack of information? Failure to comply with procedures. Now, I don't think there's a question mark. Thinking of a department outside the structures of the police hierarchy? I think we need to pay very much attention to this airport police force, which, I would remind you, carries out delicate missions, including repatriation, and which we also know that in the more distant past it has experienced slipping. In general, I also want to talk about the future. You make a series of recommendations. Yours is a series of recommendations made by Committee P. As I said at the outset, there have been a series of developments. They are likely to question not only those responsible for the police but also those responsible for politics in relation to facts that some allow themselves and which are becoming a form, perhaps, of normality unacceptable to the citizens and to the political leaders that we are. We must be accountable for that. On this point, the question of racism is an issue that you said you wanted to tackle soon enough. The question is whether, in essence, there is a problem of racism within the police, which is more important than that which is seen in the population. It is well known that the difficulties we face, mainly with the pandemic, exacerbate all these violences, particularly in terms of racism, rejection of the other, etc. It would be good if we could move forward on these issues and you could come with what you want to put on the table. I know you care about this case. More generally, a sluggish and recurring issue in our committees is violence. It is always said that the violence committed by the police and the violence suffered by the police must be compared. I always say that these are obviously two different files. We must be able to treat them but not treat them in a comprehensive way. The causes and effects are not the same. We must therefore be able to work on the violence perpetrated by the police. We mustn't be candid. Again, if we succeed in having procedures, methods, prevention, police training, we can punish and therefore not cast reproach on all police forces. In the same way, we must also work on the violence suffered, which is also important. As for the prospect of the Chovanec case, you seem to have taken on the scale of the earthquake caused by this case, which is perhaps the tip of the iceberg compared to other more silent cases of violence. I think you've measured that. I hope that you have also taken the measure of what it was emblematic for others to think about structural paths. You have already launched some of them, but I think that they will have to be clearly amplified in order to develop this spirit through the police as a whole. Nor is it a question of saying that this concerns the police areas and that, somewhere, it does not concern you. It is true that, hierarchically, this does not concern you. But it is also in the basic formation that all these elements must be injected. We therefore count on you, obviously with the support of the political authorities, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice, because we need very clear signals for our people to regain confidence. You have placed a great deal of emphasis on this in the past. Today, therefore, I would like to re-emphasize this notion of trust, which is essential, especially in these difficult times when the police must enforce rules that objectively make no one laugh.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u12	Commissioner-General, thank you for your briefing. I'd like to go back to thinking first. Five months ago, when you came to committee, there was a simple orderly measure against the police officer who had made the Nazi salvation. There was also a spontaneous measure on the part of Mr. Des enfants. Today, we have moved forward. But paradoxically, we are just a few weeks from the statute of limitations. Remember the months we lived last summer, the diplomatic incident, the emotion in the population with regard to these images. Today, we cannot miss this moment of disciplinary sanctions that comes, even if we are at the limit of the statute of limitations, almost three years after the facts. Eight disciplinary authorities, that's not nothing. The law is complicated. We cannot lead to disciplinary sanctions. Public opinion would not understand. I really invite you to lead to disciplinary sanctions. On the other hand, I am pleased because you have made a topo of the business processes that have been improved. But you know that, sir, business processes are one thing. The behaviour of the police is another. In Committee P's report, the culture of integrity is really missing. The construction site is huge. I have heard that there would be an action plan for Gosselies: six axes, eighty points of action. But you had been much more proactive when you came in September with a real will that the ethical behaviour of the police officers be inherent in the police function. You pleaded for integrity work. Today, I have heard little about the work that you are going to do in relation to the culture of integrity in general. It's not every day we get a chance to get you on a commission. What we are experiencing today, we are also experiencing elsewhere. As you know, if there was a note verbale from the Embassy of Czech Republic three years ago, today we have a note verbale from the Embassy of Algeria. There have already been two deaths in our cells this January. For me, this culture of integrity is an integral part of the solution so that this kind of thing doesn't happen again in the future. That is what you said at the outset when you started your presentation on September 1st: such a tragedy can no longer be repeated. Therefore, sir, I would like to hear more about this culture of integrity that you intend to develop within the integrated police force.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u13	Commissioner-General, first of all, I thank you for your briefing, which sheds some light on the events that have taken place. We are obviously in a worrying situation, since there is not only the Chovanec case, but also others, as Mr Boukili has just pointed out. These circumstances require us – both politicians and police officials or other actors – to ensure that this context does not lead to an unmanageable situation. Of course, it is also because of the anxiety that we are experiencing: people cannot go out and must wear masks; demonstrations are forbidden; families prevent young people from going out of their homes, because they risk a fine of 250 euros if they get caught - which is not a small matter for many families. In short, we create a climate of retreat. On the other hand, the police are subjected to a number of increasingly burdensome and unpleasant tasks and constraints, sometimes based on delationary facts. We therefore have two bodies facing each other, at the risk of dramatic and painful slippages. Hence the need for a rapid reaction. As Ms Matz and others have said, everything goes through initial training. Of course, there are already a lot of guidelines and recommendations. Codes of ethics are also available, but there are so many that it is not known whether these rules and advice are being followed, whether they are being implemented properly in everyday life. That is why, in our view, it is necessary to review the content of the training and, above all, to focus on civic training, the relationship of proximity with the population through availability. At one time, the Jospin government had actually deployed local police officers. Mr. Sarkozy swept it all away. If my information is correct, France is considering returning to such a local police force, which helps to improve relations with the population. There is also a phenomenon of trivialization. The Nazi sign is that of a derailing society and, here too, certain behaviour is totally unacceptable. This is also one of the reasons why we, together with Ahmed Laaouej, have tabled a bill to ensure that any Nazi sign or behaviour that comes close to this nauseous ideology – whether it comes from a citizen, a policeman or other – is automatically penalized. Clearly, this is one of the steps that will be discussed here in Parliament, where the proposal has been taken into account. We have to react, but our reaction will only have an effect if we react together to try to recommodate or bring closer to groups that are now dangerously far away.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u14	I give the floor to the Commissioner-General for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u15	Mrs Ingels, you are asking whether disciplinary sanctions have been issued at the moment. On the basis of the exposé I have given, order measures have been taken at the moment, there have been redeployments and relocations, and there is a disciplinary procedure in progress. For many of these procedures, the time of limitation is approaching. Those decisions will be made in the coming weeks. If there is nothing, it must be established as such and the file must be closed. This responsibility lies, of course, with the disciplinary authorities concerned. If the homework is done and nothing was found, then one must say so and then it must be classified without consequence. Several questions were asked about the omerta of people who have seen images. The Committee P has made the same observations on this matter as we have in our internal investigations. The conclusion is that one says "a" and the other says "b." A person in question says that he informed and talked about his service chief for a long time, and the chief of staff says that there was no mention of it at all. One of them, I hope, speaks the truth. However, it is about a tête-à-tête, without witnesses. Of course, this is not evident in criminal and disciplinary matters. There may be a ranking without consequence. The procedure may be initiated. Article 56 may be applied. I think I have to guarantee that in my capacity, but again, the power of decision rests with the disciplinary authorities. I can sensitize, but every discipline has responsibility at its level. With regard to the disciplinary measures that are a little further, especially in the local police, we will once again point out that the statute of limitations is imminent. You also asked whether the well-being of the policemen in Gosselies was being considered. I refer to the third axis of the Director's action plan on information and communication. That does indeed include this concern. Mr Van Hecke, you asked me if I could guarantee in any way that there will be no statute of limitations. I'll be sure to give that signal to all my disciplinary authorities in the federal police. That has already been said, because February is at the door. We will also report this to the relevant authorities in the local police. I share your conviction that the disciplinary law should be reviewed. I fully share that belief. I find the disciplinary law far too complicated, with ordinary and higher disciplinary authorities, light and severe punishments. In my view, this can be much simpler. That would benefit everyone. At the time of the discussion of the Law of 13 May 1999, it was stated that in the case of mobility, the new employer takes over the procedure. Perhaps that was a mistake, one should return to it politically and say, on the basis of experience, that procedures should remain with the unit where it happened. That consideration must be made. That is indeed a point of attention. I have already said that there has been a lot of thinking over time and that there has already been a concept of new disciplinary law. Mr Flahaut, you said about the reform of the disciplinary law, that "any action approaching" should be automatically sanctioned and retained. This is a whole debate in both disciplinary and criminal matters. Yes or no, are fees set? Does this gesture, this attitude, this behaviour amount to a light or heavy sanction? We have had this debate many times before, but I believe it deserves our attention. In the bill under consideration at the time, some provisions were intended to be a step in the right direction. For example, for a police officer who consults the data banks illegally, it is an ex officio heavy penalty. To mean you don't play with private data. It is used only in the exercise of his profession. If you're behind your computer or smartphone and you're viewing data, make sure it's linked to your professional requirements! A second example was in this bill: as soon as a final judgement or judgment convicts a police officer or a police officer to a certain penalty, it is time out, it is resignation. This avoids a disciplinary procedure that follows or should follow and shortens the deadlines. I think there were ideas to dig into in this project. In this regard, you will always find in me a partner because it is indeed possible to improve the law. Mr Van Hecke, you are asking how many people would be involved under Rule 56? That's mainly about the people who intervened on the tarmac and in the cell. Based on the information I'm getting, it's about about 16 people. People have intervened on the tarmac, others in the cell. That's a lot of people. But where coercion has been used, whether or not it is correct, we should check it together, Article 56 would be activated. At my level there are three cases of decision, Mr Van Hecke, along with seven other disciplinary authorities. A lot of questions were asked regarding culture, integrity and leadership. It's not just about factual facts, about procedures and processes. It goes deeper than that. There is indeed still work on culture, integrity and ethics, but there is no miracle solution to that. It is about a multitude of initiatives that should help to improve this. I can give you some concrete examples that show that we are indeed working on it. At my level, for example, I have expanded my service integrity. It used to be one person, level A, with knowledge of the facts. We have extended this service, also in the light of the new law on whistleblower status, while respecting procedures. The entire research on well-being and psychosocial stress by IDEWE from 2018, the results of which were known in 2019, is in full development. My Department of Protection and Prevention at Work has rolled everything out. They have analysed all the results per service and examined the problem in which service occurs. Workshops are organised around them. That's how we get people along. We go to the units on the spot and tell them what outcome the great survey has brought for them in function of what is less good or downright bad. We need to work on that. That work is currently in full swing within the federal police, led by my department CGW. We launched a whole campaign not so long ago for respect for the integrated police, with as many themes as there are letters in the word respect. We have had a debate and conversation with various NGOs. They're all big and small initiatives. Maybe you know someone who's been working with the federal police very recently. That person should have received a personal letter on my behalf. The two points I always come back to are the quality of work, which generates pride, and respect. Everywhere I go, I quote those two items. The quality of the police work and the respect in the work, for you, but also for another, are important. I specifically ask everyone to make a behavior, gesture, word or whatever that is really out of place immediately, with the colleague in question and, if necessary, with the hierarchy. In this way we get even more discussionability of those gestures and attitudes that don't belong to the police. A few months ago there was also much to do about ethnic profiling. This has also led to debates and questions in Parliament. A few zones now have best practices on this. We deliberately no longer speak of ethnic profiling, but we will now speak of professional profiling. We are now spreading the best practices of three to four police zones over the entire integrated police force. These are a number of concrete examples that indicate that we are indeed working in many areas to get this structuralally anchored. Mr Van Hecke, as far as the cameras are concerned, there must be additional rules. This is also the subject of the discussions we are currently having with the Justice Department on the revision of the COLs. I also asked for the buffer zones of all those cameras to be listed. Those are the technical aspects. Some cameras in some places have large storage space, while others have smaller memory. Those are rules that we need to align with each other. Mr Rigot, indeed, I agree, there is fact, there are processes. But there is also structural. I have cited many examples. I think we're working on it. We will never do enough, of course, but we will do our best to ensure that all these workshops and initiatives succeed and that CP 3, the control circular, finds a foundation within the integrated police. With regard to debriefing, Mr Rigot, I believe that if there is an incident of a certain magnitude, the boss must be present. For me, that goes without saying. The boss must be present at this debriefing. This one must be complete. I can understand that some images may not be shown or are not shown directly, but I believe that if we do a debriefing, we need the hierarchy to be present and we do a complete debriefing to improve afterwards. Mr Demon, as regards your question about the whistleblower scheme, I have already said that we have strengthened the integrity service with a view to implementing that legislation, but also with a view to implementing an integrity network. I don't think a service with a few people is gonna fix it, but we need to have a network of integrity staff within the local and federal police, just like we have trusted people in the welfare matter. That's in full development. Mr Boukili, on your question about the flow of information to the hierarchy and to the cabinet, I can tell you that on the basis of my current instructions, in case of a serious incident, a procedure is provided for. It provides that the information is transmitted to the Directorate of Administrative Police Operations (DAO), which redistributes it to 60, 70 or 80 persons both internal and external to the police. That answers your question. Outside the police, too, people need to be aware of serious incidents that occur within the integrated police force. You have written a long story about your structural approach. I hear everywhere, including in this chamber, that 40,000 people are doing their job well and that others are not doing it. I think we still need to nuance. As I have just explained, there are many ways to improve this situation, by working together with the local police and by strengthening dialogue with all stakeholders and partners. It's very important. Mr Vandenput, the new director will be happy to explain this action plan and will be talking about internal communication, the Infoflux. I share your view that the disciplinary procedure needs to be reviewed. That's very important. What is also a focus for a debate with Parliament is how long one can be in charge of unity. Remember that a lot of legislative work has been done on this in Parliament. Initially, I may not know the order well anymore, there was no time limit for the chiefs of police and the officers of the federal police. It was possible to hold five years' office and extend it several times by five years. This was then limited by Parliament to one extension. In other words, one could have been chief of police or mandate in the federal police force for ten years. After that, this has been changed again in Parliament and now there is no longer a maximum term for the mandate. I believe that this debate can still be conducted and extended to other functions, to management positions which no longer run by mandate since the recent changes. We must ask ourselves whether it is right that someone should be there for more than ten years. Not only are we making this reflection, within the police, but it is also happening elsewhere in public office and in the private sector. That is a point that can be taken into account in the debate on this subject. Mr Moyaers, as regards the person who passed to the local police, the chief of staff of Gosselies, I can only say that we have provided all the information requested by the mayor. Very quickly, the Internal Supervisory Service reported this to the mayor, who subsequently requested additional information. We asked the Attorney General whether he, who had allowed us as a disciplinary authority to inspect the judicial file in order to support our analysis, allowed us now to share that information with the mayor, who has become disciplined by mobility. We've been given that permission. We are therefore trying to provide the new disciplinary authority with as much information as possible. Simple is something else. Do I find it difficult to draw up the recommendations of the P Committee? I think that's an interesting question. To date, I have not experienced any difficulties with any of the recommendations we have already worked on. I believe that this proves that the seriousness of the matter is with the federal police in order to take the recommendations as well as possible into account and implement them. I feel this particularly in the field of training. The structural question is how the police deal with sick, confused and psychotic people. This is indeed a very important point where we still have to make progress this year with modules 1 and 2, but certainly also with the broader multidisciplinary section. I think it is a real challenge to arrive at syllabus by the end of the year with the four sub-groups of Justice, Police, Home Affairs, 112 and Public Health. We are not doctors. I think that's very important. Mrs Matz, indeed, if we can do without legal proceedings, we must do so without delay. There is a case law of the Council of State which says: "You already knew enough without waiting for the judicial verdict. As a diligent authority, you should have acted and not waited for judgment or judgment to be cast into res judicata." On this point, we agree. Let's be clear! Article 56 – and I repeat that I am not the disciplinary authority in this matter – would be activated mainly for interventions on the tarmac and the cell in which the police used force. For the other aspects, it goes without saying that there is no reason to wait for a judgment or judgment. Decisions are made in a timely manner, i.e. before a statute of limitations applies. As the report of the Supreme Council of Justice and in the first part of the report of Committee P, as far as the judicial flow is concerned, the information has circulated correctly, in accordance with the MFO circulars on the matter, and therefore there has been no attempt to conceal the information, as you have alluded to. With regard to the State in the State, I refer to the six axes of the action plan of the new Director, in particular the concrete examples I have cited, in order to combat this culture of isolated islands. It is true that, for the aviation police, it is a unit that requires a lot of attention and for which we are trying to have more full-time equivalents (FTEs). To give you a recent and concrete example, resources have been released to strengthen the aviation police. Thus, Mr Des enfants has just opened 100 places – in other words 100 FTEs – for BruNat. At the end of the call for applications, three candidates ran. That's got to keep getting us to check out what's living there. It has not only to do with the location and accessibility, but also with the difficult, delicate work. Personally, I find the airport, where I have often been, a fantastic place and the police unit there a fantastic unit to work in. We have developed and put into operation the whole segment of DAB there. I have a lot of contact with these people. They like to work there. The piece of DAB works well there now. I think we need to investigate further how we can get more people to the aviation police voluntarily, especially to the post in Zaventem. Mrs Thibaut, indeed, it is a matter of not missing the disciplinary procedure; and therefore, to ensure that each disciplinary authority has in mind the limitation period. As far as the "integrity and ethics" culture is concerned, you asked me to be a little more explicit about that. I have cited a number of initiatives, not exhaustively or exhaustively, that are being undertaken. Finally, training. We are constantly reviewing training. Every time something happens, we say: that, we should put it in the basic training. The module 1 that I have spoken to you about, which we are now going to follow before Easter, will be structurally in the basic training. At present, this is a one-year basic course followed by a six-month probationary course. Mr Flahaut, I do believe that we must now take a step forward and put ourselves around the table to assess the basic training, its duration and its content. Indeed, I believe that we need even more in terms of culture, integrity, respect, proximity, civic attitude. I think I will call on my Executive Director to do so. I think it'll be beneficial to everyone. Mr President, I hope that I have answered a lot of questions. If not, I'm still available.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u16	Thank you, Mr De Mesmaeker, for your additional answers. I shall go back to the groups to see if they have any further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u17	Thank you, Mr De Mesmaeker, for your comprehensive answers. On my question about Article 56, you say that the potential is about 16 people. Three of them are your responsibility. Can you indicate how many staff are potentially subject to disciplinary proceedings in total, so for whom the preliminary investigation is under way? After all, I suppose I can't just add up the figures, sixteen plus three. You also talked about the eight disciplinary authorities. Maybe you can break down the numbers. Do you know by discipline how many people we're talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u18	We have drawn up a list of these. In globo it's about intervention tarmac. Then it's about intervention cell. Then it is about the discussion whether the images were seen, but that nothing was said about it, why we are in a stalemate, which is very annoying. Then it's in the fourth hatch, the infoflux, asking who knew what. My head of the cabinet just made the sum. They're about 40 people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u19	Thank you, that was my only remaining question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u20	Commissioner-General, thank you for your answers. You are pointing out one of the priorities of our group: the revision of the disciplinary law, which is an essential issue. We cannot make an economy of it, as we cannot deprive ourselves of a reform in view of the possible consequences that have just been mentioned. Impunity and lack of consistency in the monitoring of disciplinary procedures cannot be admitted, given certain mobility phenomena. My group was already saying that at the time of the debate on the policy note. This is a matter that the government really needs to deal with. The disciplinary law must be reviewed in its broad widths. Similarly, gradations in sanctions must be decided, as you mentioned earlier, by citing examples from the legislative work in this area. It is terrible to say today that there is no source for some that acts such as Nazi salvation have no place in our police. In this case, this prohibition must be firmly stated. No doubt we have to go through this. It's unfortunate, but if you have to go, let's go! For the debriefing, you join me on the unacceptably trivialization by the head of service, who should have been present, but who was not. These debriefings must be structured, but I have not yet been assured that they are already structured. They must be followed by an alert if individual behaviour has been a problem, so that they can be identified and acted upon immediately. Moreover, this monitoring must also highlight possible organisational malfunctions, procedures to be corrected and police actions to be adapted. Here's what I'm concerned about: it took a scandal for the organizational improvement section to be addressed. However, we must expect our police to challenge themselves and constantly analyse their processes to learn from their actions and correct what needs to be done. It's imperative. Similarly, people who obstruct the improvement of the police force must be clearly excluded. This is an essential aspect for the future. Communication is also essential. You think the DAO should be notified. Of course! But that is the problem: it was not. At all levels: office, protocol, airport police; no one pulls the right alarm bell to start the process. Today, and I hope you will be able to respond to it, there is still a lack of an automatic mechanism to trigger this alarm bell, so as also to send the information to the right place. Indeed, this should never have happened as it happened - and it is also true in terms of communication. Of course, these things are getting in place and some problems are becoming known. I don't doubt it. It's a long way to go, but we have to go now. On the other hand, we must be aware of the essential nature of discipline, so as to reassure the population, since it must be certain that you expect all your men to respect this discipline.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u21	I have one more specific question. Is there a timing for these disciplinary investigations? If so, when will they be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u22	Mr Demon, the moment when one has to decide whether to do something or not or to wait for justice is mid-February. All these decisions will therefore have to be made in the coming days. There can be a classification without consequence, a disciplinary procedure can be initiated or one can wait for the justice system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u23	Commissioner General, you have said that, following the new procedure, 70 or 80 people are informed not only within the police but also outside. I would like to know whether the Minister of the Interior is directly asked to take a position on this issue. On the other hand, as far as Committee P is concerned, is it not possible to give the Committee the opportunity to initiate disciplinary proceedings? I heard you on the structural side. It is clear that the majority of police officers are doing their job very well. We're always talking about scoundrels. But the frequency of cases and the repetition of procedural problems lead me to mention a structural problem. Indeed, one can speak of an isolated problem or of gallant sheep, when it happens once, twice, from time to time, but not when it becomes usual and regular. We can have different positions on the issue. But the repetitive and regular nature of such cases suggests that the problem is structural.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u24	To answer your first question, the information is given internally and externally, including to the office of the Minister of the Interior. In other words, the firm receives the broadcast and the report from the central point of the police station. With regard to your question about the possibility of giving Committee P the power to initiate disciplinary proceedings, allow me to ask you for a moment of reflection. I am not sure that it is up to me to answer this question. But, in my opinion, a review of the disciplinary law would be beneficial.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u25	Mr President, Commissioner-General, thank you for your presentation. We have talked a lot here about discipline and adjustment of the disciplinary procedure. That must be done, but that is after the facts. As you said, we must also work preventively and ensure that these things do not occur as little as possible. You mentioned several successive initiatives, that this is complex and takes too long and so on. You are right for 100 % that this is a long-term work. It is a work that is never finished, because if things are to be strengthened and improved in small and large organisations, then we must also ensure that they continue to be done and we must continue to pay constant attention to them. That's important. I take your comment on the length of the term of office. In any modern multinational or SME, it is mandatory to move on to other functions to learn and perfect, but also to avoid the installation of certain cultures that are difficult to change in certain branches of a company. I think this is what you're referring to as well. People need to be able to perfect themselves, learn other things and share their expertise elsewhere. We'll definitely take that with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u26	Mr President, Commissioner-General, I would also like to thank you for your comprehensive answers. You said that the Integrity Service only consisted of one person and that you had extended it. How many people did you extend it to?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u27	There are three employees there. That is a new service created at the level of the Commissioner-General by my predecessor, which consisted of one person level A with knowledge of matters. We have extended this service, partly because of the whistleblower law, with the ambition that an entire network of integrity reference persons, with which some local police zones have best practices, not just those three, will make the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u28	Mr President, I would just like to say a very small word to underline the extremely proactive nature of the Commissioner-General's intervention in a whole series of issues that we have identified today, mainly in the Chovanec case. On the lessons to be learned, I simply hope that its determination will be followed by the government and the ministers responsible for implementing reforms, whether in terms of training, disciplinary matters or flow of information, etc. which he stressed today. Indeed, it is not only with a concrete team on the ground but also with political will that we will move forward on this delicate issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u29	Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner-General for his answers and his presentation, which shed even more light on us, who are for some members of the Monitoring Committee of the P Committee. I am very pleased to take note of the commitment made to reconsider once again, perhaps by redacting certain things, the content of the training courses and the tone of the guidelines. I will be very interested in following this evolution to ensure that, starting from the upstream, there can be an improvement in the relations between police and citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic350x.u30	I would like to thank you once again, Mr De Mesmaeker, for your presentation and your good suggestions. We will take it with us in further debates. A brief and comprehensive report will be made of this meeting so that everyone will be able to use this interesting exchange of views in a more informed future. I would also like to take your suggestion, Mr De Mesmaeker, that the director of the LPA may be prepared to present his extensive SWOT analysis here. We will discuss this suggestion further in our committee during the course of the work.
