ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic556x.u1	Madam President, Minister, it already existed in Liège and now there is another city, which is also run by progressive parties, which is going to set up drug use areas. In fact, the Brussels Government already has an order to do so. For example, it wants to allow the roll-out of a large drug village in the Channel Zone by 2025, but also in the shorter term it wants to set up smaller drug use areas. You're a lawyer, so you know Article 3 of the Drug Act. Facilitation of drug use is still prohibited until further notice. In other words, either a federal law amendment is necessary to allow such space or certain agreements must be made. It is about agreements with the police, because they must ignore the fact that whoever goes there does have drugs, and this is not just about soft drugs, but above all about hard drugs. The police will have to turn a blind eye. There must also be agreements with the public prosecutor, because in the end they commit infringements. In Liège, the latter option was accepted. They just made some arrangements there. The police allow people to walk around with hard drugs and do not prosecute. Minister, you will not be surprised that I have some questions about this. Have you already consulted the Brussels Government on these plans, which Brussels has and which have already given them an order? What were the conclusions of that consultation? If not, is that still on the schedule? Has the federal government already taken a position on dealing with such illegal spaces until further notice? What is the government's position? Have you discussed this with the College of Attorney General? If so, what were the conclusions of that consultation? Are you planning a change to the drug law to make such spaces legally possible and, by extension, to include the facilitation of drug use under the heading of harm reduction? How do you reconcile the Brussels Government's plans for drug use areas with, for example, the Channel Plan, where a strong effort has just been made to reduce the drug problem? The following is perhaps interesting to know before we start applying it even more. How is the project evaluated in Liège? Will there also be an overall assessment of the drug law? Is the legalisation of soft drugs on the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic556x.u2	Minister, I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic556x.u3	The Brussels Board intends to set up a new centre for drug addicts by 2025. Controversial drug use areas would also be present in this centre. These are areas where addicts can use in a safe setting. In principle, this is contrary to current legislation, as governments are not allowed to facilitate drug use. Some of our neighbours are already swearing in their approach. (Hedrich, D. (2004). European report on drug consumption rooms(p. 8). Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities; Folch, C., Lorente, N., Majó, X., Parés-Badell, O., Roca, X., Brugal, T., ... & REDAN study group. (2018). Drug consumption rooms in Catalonia: A comprehensive evaluation of social, health and harm reduction benefits. International Journal of Drug Policy, 62, 24-29).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic556x.u4	I would like to answer questions 1 to 4 by Mrs De Wit and questions 1 to 3 by Mrs Gabriels as follows. The Brussels Parliament is currently considering a proposal for a regulation which regulates the establishment of medical-therapeutic user rooms with the implementation of the government agreement. The proposal for an order was submitted to the Brussels Parliament on 28 June. A number of partners, including the city of Brussels and the association Transit, have now announced such a user space. The parquet was involved in this by prior consultation and agreed not to interfere with the prosecution policy of organising such a user's space, with the nuance that the parquet may still decide to prosecute if necessary, if, for example, users of that space appear to be abusing drug trafficking. In addition, I should mention the Decree of 9 May 2019 of the French Community Commission amending the Decree on the provision of outpatient services in the areas of social action, family and health. The establishment of such rooms in the Brussels-Capital Region raises no objections to the public prosecutor's office, in so far as its operation complies with the provisions of that decree. The aim is to ensure public rest and a safe living environment for all. There is therefore already a legal framework for such areas by means of a decree of the French Community Commission. Similar initiatives already exist to limit the harmful effects of drug use on users, which is called harm reduction. For example, since 2018 there has been a project in Liège that has been tolerated under the previous government. I can also refer to the Flemish programme of needle exchange, which has been in place for many years in Flemish cities such as Antwerp and which, although well regulated, strictly also facilitates drug use, as stated in Article 3 of the 1921 drug law. This problem will be addressed in the general drug policy cell, in which all the governments of our country participate. An amendment to the drug law is therefore not directly at issue. With regard to Mrs De Wit's fifth question, I do not see any contradiction with the Channel Plan. The Channel Plan primarily included the reduction of the illegal economy and of the factors contributing to radicalisation. With regard to Mrs De Wit's sixth question and Mrs Gabriel's fourth question, the evaluation of the project in Liège, as well as of other projects on land, will soon be covered in the general drug policy cell. I understand that the project in Liège will be stopped anyway. With regard to Mrs De Wit's last question, the legalisation of so-called soft drugs is not in the coalition agreement and is therefore not on the political table. However, there is an evaluation of the drug law by the general drug policy cell in the pipeline. In a first phase, gaps, bottlenecks and requests for changes to the law will be identified in order to further define the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic556x.u5	Mr Minister, the project in Liège is organised by people who have been working on similar projects before, but who have not proved to be so successful. Personally, I am not grieved that the project might be stopped there for that reason. In any case, I find it a little strange that we suddenly want to introduce it in Brussels. You say that there is no opposition to the decree, but that is, of course, because the Brussels government has been smart. It calls the installation of a drug user's area prevention and claims that it is competent to do so, while a drug user's area is covered by harm reduction, where one tries to make drug use happen safely, but that is not prevention, on the contrary. You say everything has yet to be evaluated by the general cell. In the meantime, however, new initiatives will follow; so it seems that the evaluation is not even awaited. A statement that has always been with me is one of Mrs Van Duyse of De Key, someone who works daily with people with addiction. She said that a policy of tolerance is disastrous for the policy of deprivation. That mistake was made with cannabis so many years ago. If we now set up areas where we can use drugs, we are actually sending out the signal that it is safe, while there are no safe drugs. That's how people tolerate again. I find it really surprising that the parquet goes along with that, but I take note of it. In the end, this is a new form of tolerance policy, Minister, and that is detrimental to the distress. It is at odds and is a totally wrong signal as far as I am concerned. I don't have a problem with harm reduction and with spray exchange, but here is just a space where one can supposedly use drugs safely, but that is an illusion. That is like setting up a lane on the highway where traffic rules no longer apply. One can even drive 180 kilometres an hour, because that is supposedly safe, but that is nonsense. I note that the government does not have the legalization of soft drugs in the coalition agreement, but perhaps it will be as creative as the Brussels government that puts it under a different heading. However, I would like to stick to it. We will certainly continue to follow up on the matter, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic556x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have remembered that there have been experiments on such projects in several places for a number of years, with the sole aim of reducing the harmful effects as far as possible, and that the parquet is also involved. I also think I have understood that there are conditions, so it is not as brief as Mrs De Wit insinuates. I have noted and noted that, of course, we are implementing the government agreement and that the project for the Brussels Government is similar to other projects, which are now being evaluated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic556x.u7	Minister, from 1 December, most prison sentences, including the shorter ones, will finally have to be carried out. This legislation, which was already 15 years old, can then finally be implemented soon. It is estimated that there will be 600 to 700 prisoners. I'm a little concerned about your decision to interrupt the execution for the duration of this corona crisis. You don't communicate much about that, but you did make the decision. The sentence is still suspended until 15 October. Punishments are therefore interrupted and not carried out. You know that the Public Prosecutor has issued a COL to catch up with those penalties by December, when the short sentences are due. Nevertheless, you have decided not to repeat the sentence at a normal pace for the time being. In your view, this is not a problem because the detention homes are coming, which will play a very important role in providing additional capacity, especially for the short-term punishments, because there is another kind of regime that can be more constructive for them. I believe the latter, too. Now I read in a newspaper last week, I think, that suddenly you are no longer in favour of short sentences. It still appears to be the intention to make short sentences impossible. Look at the new Criminal Code that's in place. Experts had initially suggested that prison sentences of less than a year would no longer be possible. We did not agree with that in the previous government, nor did Open Vld. It was then said that six months to one year could be, but less than six months could not be. That's when the experts quit. Today, legislative proposals have been tabled to raise this to a year. If within the government you are keen that there are no more prison sentences up to a year, then there are no more short prison sentences. I am in the middle of this: can short sentences, or should only long sentences be allowed? Hence my questions. The most important question concerns capacity. We have always said that the number of prisoners should not be adapted to capacity, but capacity to the number of prisoners. Will detention homes be opened by 1 December in order to ease the pressure on the current prisons? If so, how many and for how many inmates? As I said, I am convinced that detention homes can play a role in short-term sentences. But how do you reconcile this with the abolition of short prison sentences as it appears to be on the table under the new Criminal Code?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic556x.u8	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, as far as your first question is concerned, my services are currently exploring various slopes together with the Director of the Buildings. We have already searched and/or visited more than twenty sites. In certain cases, these are very specific slopes. However, the start-up of some will take some time because adaptation work is needed. I am convinced that, with the information I have at my disposal, it should be possible to open one or two detention homes by the end of the year with a total capacity of about 50 to 100 places. With regard to your second question, the new Criminal Code aims to ensure that prison sentences can no longer be imposed on certain types of offences. That is, of course, a different debate than whether or not to provide for short prison sentences. The effective execution of short prison sentences is necessary. We will do the same from 1 December. The non-execution of short prison sentences gave rise to an inflation of penalties. We want to address this problem with the entry into force of the 2006 law, which will finally put an end to the justified disappointment of magistrates who had their sentences changed by out-of-court decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic556x.u9	Minister, I realise that it is not an obvious exercise to stamp detention homes out of the ground. We are talking about 50 to 100 places, while 600 to 700 prisoners are likely to be added by the end of the year, regardless of the resumption of the sentence that will take place. Well, then this is quite a challenge. I hope that you will succeed in ensuring that the penalties continue to follow shortly after the conviction, because they are therefore the most efficient. As far as the new Criminal Code is concerned, I agree with you that prison sentences are not the most appropriate punishment for certain offences. I won't deny that. However, our view has always been that one should dare to trust the judge and offer a wide range of possibilities. The short prison sentence, if only for a few days, should be one of those options. Thus, according to the person standing in front of him, the judge can choose an appropriate punishment. He can then continue to have that palette at his disposal. That is also an interesting debate. In the long term one can move towards another system and come to shorter penalties because one can play briefly on the ball and prevent recurrence. I hope that the slope of short prison sentences will not be left. However, some of the texts that I have seen before and which some of your coalition partners have retabled under the new Criminal Code provide that in no case can prison sentences of less than one year be imposed. That's contrary to the other thought. We will certainly follow up on this further. I hope you will do the same yourself. What we must all strive for is an efficient punishment by playing briefly on the ball. Any punishment can play a role in this. I absolutely understand the idea that we should avoid jail time, because prison time is far-reaching, but I do think, and that is an important thing, that the judge should always have the opportunity to impose it, no matter how short it is, as a warning. I have enough confidence in the Chief Justice to assume that this prison sentence will not follow for facts that you and I say is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic556x.u10	Madam President, Minister, at a Joint Committee on Justice and the Interior on 23 March, we had an exchange of views in the context of the commemoration of the fifth anniversary of the terrorist attacks of 22 March. I asked you about the 2017 OCAM report, linking Wahhabism, Salafism and terrorism. This report has not been updated since 2017. I suggested it be. You replied: "Mr Dallemagne, you also referred to this interesting report published at the end of 2016, which was updated in 2017. Of course, your suggestion for a new update is interesting." In the meantime, we have also seen the influence of the Muslim Brotherhood, their involvement in society, as pointed out in the latest State Security Report, about which there have been leaks in the press. Beyond this idea considered interesting, what have you done in the meantime? Minister, have you taken any initiatives to update this report? If so, when will he be? When will we be able to learn about the results? In what format? Will it be a confidential report in Standing Committee P and R or will it be a public report?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic556x.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I remember this debate that we had in March this year. The OCAM report you are talking about dates back to September 2016. He discussed the impact of Wahhabi preaching in Belgium, in terms of radicalism and extremism. You know better than I do that this report was an important guide for the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the attacks of 22 March 2016 with regard to its recommendations. This report was followed by a follow-up when, in the spring of 2018, the OCAM published a new report on the manuals that were available in the great mosque in Brussels, particularly as part of the formation of imams. You are also aware of this report, as it was discussed in the Parliamentary Monitoring Committee on the attacks of 22 March 2016. But what is more important is, indeed, the consequences that have been linked to these reports. Since those reports, Belgium has taken various initiatives towards Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States in order to tackle the problem of radicalisation and the spread of radical Salafist extremist ideas from that region. In 2018, there was the closure of the Saudi theological campus of the great mosque in Brussels, which was one of the main external centers in Western Europe of the Saudi-controlled Islamic World League and a major hub for the dissemination of extremist ideologies. Secondly, in the meantime, the concession of the great mosque to the Saudis has been lifted, in accordance with the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. Thirdly, a high-level bilateral diplomatic mission took place from 6 to 8 November 2017 in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, during which, on the basis of evidence, the withdrawal of Saudis and the World Islamic League from the Great Mosque in Brussels was negotiated. In addition to the closure of the Saudi campus of the great mosque in Brussels, this power was more generally interested in Saudi exploitation of extremist ideological material. Meetings were held on the subject, including with the Saudi Ministry of Islamic Affairs, the Secretary-General of the World Islamic League and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Fourthly, a bilateral follow-up mission took place, from 19 to 21 November 2019, in Saudi Arabia, and it addressed exactly the same issue. Fifthly, the issue of the dissemination in Europe of Islamic, radical, extremist and online hate speech – directly or indirectly from Saudi Arabia's missionary and religious apparatus – has been a major focus in Belgian engagement at the level of fighting and in preventing extremist violence over the past four years. Since this is a problem that goes beyond national borders, there has been a strong will for multilateral action in close cooperation with the European Union's Counter-Terrorism Coordinator and the European Commission. In the past year, OCAM has played a very active role in this multilateral cooperation in terms of expertise. Subsequently, in December 2019, the Council of the European Union, supported by the European External Action Service of the Commission, granted a mandate to the CTC (the EU Counter-Terrorism Coordinator) to conduct high-level consultations with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the issue of the spread of extremist ideologies within the EU and its Member States. The Council and the Commission have expressed their concern about the spread of extremist Islamist ideologies that can contribute to radicalisation leading to extremist violence and terrorism, which can have a negative impact on social cohesion and integration in Europe. The CTC invited OCAM to play an important role in providing expertise to prepare this mandate. More recently, OCAM participated in the following initiatives on this issue at the EU expert meeting on 27 May 2020 on the dissemination of ideological, Islamist and extremist content and on how to develop a common approach. This was led by Belgium with the OCAM and chaired by the CTC, as well as DG HOME. Subsequently, high-level consultations between CTC and EC and Saudi Arabia were held in Riyadh from 3 to 6 July this year. OCAM participated actively in these discussions in Riyadh as an expert of the delegation. It can therefore be said, ladies and gentlemen, that since the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry and the publication of various reports such as those of the OCAM, we have opened our eyes and are no longer blind to the social or security problems posed by Salafism and Wahhabism. In our country, both a national and a multilateral policy has been formulated with regard to Saudi Arabia. OCAM and other services continued to contribute. Most of these analyses, however, were conducted in-house only, given their confidentiality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic556x.u12	Mr.Minister, thank you for your precise, factual and detailed response to the time line.You are right to stress that this report was fundamental to our understanding of the link that could exist between Salafism, including Quietism, and a threat that could affect our security. I see the consequences of this report and I welcome it of course. I would add that, beyond its implementation, which remains effective, this report should, however, be updated. Most of the things you're telling me about are three or four years ago. It would be interesting to re-map this threat today. Secondly, there is an important dialogue with Saudi Arabia, but – and that is also my responsibility – it would seem that the Muslim Brotherhood, which we are talking about a lot at the moment, has today taken the place left somewhat vacant by Saudi Arabia, put under pressure by our government. As the Sûreté reports, there is a certain enterrism today. I would like this report to be updated and expanded more generally to include the Islamist threat, the current nature of which would be verified. Some believe that these are pure fantasies, others, on the contrary, serious threats. It would be interesting to have a more recent and accurate mapping, which includes this threat as well as the entryism of some other countries. I hear that we are working a lot with Saudi Arabia, but I do not hear much about Qatar. However, I am concerned about the influence of this country over which much information is circulating. I will ask you again to continue this dialogue on the updating of this information, even if it is discreetly given to Parliament through its Monitoring Committee of Committees P and R.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic556x.u13	With regard to your first question, Mrs Verhaert, I would first of all like to stress that the digitisation of the traffic fine process via Crossborder has resulted in enormous efficiency gains, both in the police and in the justice and finance sectors. Today, 93 percent of fines are collected. Moreover, since the roll-out of the payment order, the workload at the level of our courts, courts and parquets has fallen significantly. The unpaid fines can now be awarded an enforceable title through the payment order. It is therefore no longer necessary to subpoena the court if the fine is not paid. The bailiff has an enforceable title and can thus claim the sum. Furthermore, the chance of catching up must be increased by activating the various trajectories as quickly as possible, but also by eliminating the quotas. We will do this gradually, but thoughtfully, of course in the interests of road safety. It is not possible, for example, for a zone 30 near a school to begin to disintegrate from 47 km per hour, except for a technical margin. You should know that the risk of death in a hit-and-run at 30 km per hour is one in ten, while in a hit-and-run at 50 km per hour it is five out of ten, which is five times higher. We invest in Justice, in Crossborder and in processing centres, together with the Minister of the Interior. We're taking structural measures to make Justice work smarter. In concrete terms, we will strengthen traffic parks and police courts. By the end of 2022, 45 people will be recruited at the parquet and a further 30 will be added to the seat. In total, we are talking about 75 people. The budgets have been released so that some of these recruitments can take place this year. This increase in staff must therefore also be accompanied by commitments to eliminate tolerance margins and quotas in the long term. As far as your second question is concerned, our priority is to eliminate the opportunity tolerance margins. We'll already have our hands full with that. It is true that the measuring devices are becoming more accurate, but a technical margin may always remain in place. Under 100 km per hour today a margin of 6 km per hour is used, above 100 km per hour it becomes a variable margin of 6 %. That seems to me to be a correct system. Specifically, someone who drives zone 30 35 km per hour will not be banished. A certain technical margin therefore remains. The same applies mutatis mutandis to the progressive system as it exists in Germany. We already have a categorization of traffic offences on the basis of which the fine and/or criminal prosecution is determined. In the long term, we can discuss the merits of the German system, but, frankly, first things first, we must first tackle the issue of quotas and the possibilities for tolerance, and then have the other discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic556x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I've already heard some positive figures. As you said, we all want to increase road safety. I often hear complaints in my municipality about speed and the resulting road safety. It is of course a good thing that you invest and that you increase the capacity to control speeding offences better. This is, of course, an important condition for abolishing quotas and the margins of tolerance. I am also pleased that you may wish to review the system of fines in the long term. It sometimes feels unfair that the fine is as high for 1 kilometer per hour too fast as for 10 kilometers per hour too fast. I strongly support the German system. I hope that we can look at this together in the long term. In any case, excessive speed often leads to dangerous situations or accidents, which is, of course, even worse. I therefore hope that we will soon see changes in practice and that this will increase road safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic556x.u15	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Marghem's 55019895C lapses because we have not heard from her.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic556x.u16	Minister, Dutch crime journalist Peter de Vries is still fighting for his life after being shot in broad daylight on Tuesday night last week. The man had been threatened repeatedly and his house was sometimes guarded, but he sent that guard away himself, because otherwise the children of the neighbors were afraid to play outside. He didn't spend any more time on threat reports. It is a sign of the circumstances in which journalists, who play an essential role in the democratic rule of law, must carry out their jobs. From aggression, violence and death threats, criminal and crime journalists don't even look up anymore. That cannot and must not be accepted. We must ensure that journalists are protected in their independent capacity, that their safety is guaranteed and that crimes against them are severely punished. As part of the new Criminal Code, there is talk of an increase in the level of violence against persons with a social function, such as police officers, firefighters, conductors or even ministers and MPs, but journalists are not yet present. However, I believe, Minister, that if we follow the reasoning of the Criminal Code, a person with a social function can be understood as being of great social importance and particularly vulnerable to acts of violence. Last week's horrific acts speak for themselves in this area. Minister, do you agree that journalists have a social function which justifies the imposition of sanctions against them in the event of violence? How will you protect journalists in an integrated and integrated way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic556x.u17	Mr None, I naturally share your concern about your first question. An attack on a journalist is an attack on freedom of the press and thus an attack on the foundations of our democratic rule of law. The draft Criminal Code, drawn up by the Commission for the reform of criminal law, will contain a definition of persons with a social function. The term of social function is a collective term for a number of expressly listed functions which are of great social importance and which make their practitioners particularly vulnerable to acts of violence that could be committed against them. The list of practitioners of those functions is set out in the introductory title of Book II of the draft Criminal Code. I will not read the full list, but it is indeed about functions such as magistrates, police officers, firefighters, educators, postmen, drivers and public transport supervisors. Journalists are currently not included in the list. However, the work of the committee has not yet been completed. The events in the Netherlands have confirmed the importance of providing protection to journalists. We will therefore examine, together with the experts of the new Criminal Code, whether a penalty for acts against journalists can be included in Book II of the new Criminal Code. In reply to your second question, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, in our country, we have already found that journalists are threatened by serious and organised crime. Although we in our country are not faced with such horrible excesses as in the Netherlands, we too have a bad tendency to make such forms of crime more brutal and three-star. Corruption and violence are unfortunately no longer an exception. It is for this reason, among other reasons, that the current government is strongly committed to tackling organised crime. Crime must not be rewarded, nor must it endanger our rule of law. In particular, of course, this also concerns the approach of threatened journalists. This is, of course, taken into account by the services with the necessary priority, primarily by the judicial services, which track and prosecute those responsible for these acts. You will not be surprised that they are usually guilty of other facts as well. Furthermore, such crime is also addressed by the administrative authorities, which take protection and security measures against threatened persons and also journalists. I am sure that you are aware of these measures, Mr None.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic556x.u18	Minister, I trust that we in the Committee on Justice at the appropriate time will also be able to add journalists to the list, given their great social importance, which often makes them particularly vulnerable to acts of violence. I hope that you will be able to protect journalists within the framework of your important security powers, without necessarily having to disclose to Parliament the secret of the special measures they enjoy.
