ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u1	At this meeting, the Secretary of State, Mr Michel, was accompanied by Mr Smeets, Director-General of the FPS Policy & Support. As a reminder and for the record, at one of our last private meetings on privacy, we had requested legal advice from our own services in relation to the Data Protection Authority, and, at the request of Mr Geens, we decided collectively to keep the report available until the Court of Auditors' report is also available. That's how you know it's already there, but it's not spreading yet. Mr Secretary of State, I give the floor to present this report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have all been aware for a few months now, the issues of data and their use are on the forefront. For my part, I have come to answer many questions in the Committee on Justice on numerous occasions. We have already seen how many people are involved in this area, but also that there are sometimes a number of vaguenesses. We all have a role to play in the clarity and transparency needed for a climate of trust that is essential for the protection of our personal data. It is important for Parliament to play its full role in this matter. Our personal data and its use are closely linked to our individual rights and freedoms, but also to the concept of the rule of law itself. In this sense, they belong to the citizen. It therefore seems essential to me that Parliament, the body of elected citizens, should be at the centre of the debate. As Secretary of State for the Protection of Privacy, it is my responsibility, within the limits of my own powers, to do everything in my power to ensure that the mechanisms ensuring the protection of personal data and fundamental freedoms are fully operational and effective. As I said in my policy statement, the evaluation of the Privacy Act is at the heart of my work and work is already underway. However, I can see that a number of issues require imminent attention and cannot be dealt with too long. This is particularly the case with the file that brings us together today:Putting Data at the center, a file mentioned in the columns of the newspaper Le Soir and which identified a project of citizen profiling. As soon as I became aware of this project, I stopped it in order to get to know it and to put the debate calmly. Following the questions asked by some Members, I have made the proposal that the administration present the elements of the draft before you. That's why I proposed this audition. In the meantime, other elements have been brought to our attention, such as data management in some hospitals or the use of Oasis software. I have received questions about this. I think we will go through them later on the agenda. All these questions, and probably those we do not yet ask ourselves, must be answered and finally resolved, in a collective work that we must carry out together. I am convinced that trust is the basis for progress. This confidence requires transparency. So here we are. I shall now give the floor to Mr Ben Smeets for the presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to respond to the article that did not fully reflect reality. FOD BOSA DG DT is the service integrator for the secure transmission of data in the context of a legitimate request from a public service and collects the data from the authentic source. In Belgium there is an architecture with decentralised data storage at authentic sources instead of a central storage. A catalogue of authentic sources is in full development and has already been published on our website. BOSA DG DT does not store data and we do not cross data. As a federal service integrator, we offer about four hundred services that consist of reusable building blocks that give access to government data and that can plug public services into their own applications. This will lead to great simplification and savings in the realisation of digitalisation projects and a better and more transparent service. Our role was formally developed in the Law of 15 August 2012 establishing and organising a federal service integrator. In addition to various aspects of service integrator, it also defined the development of applications that are useful for the integration of data stored in databases as our mission. In 2019, we did the necessary data protection impact analyses for all the services we offer at the service integrator. They are currently in need of revision in the framework of the federal information security policy. The Putting Data at the center project was launched in 2018, with the aim of creating a centralised view of all available government data in the distributed architecture of authentic sources. This should make it clear to users what data is available where. It should also make it possible to combine data from multiple sources, based on business needs and the performance of legal tasks. Very briefly, I can tell you that there are technically three possibilities: either each user retrieves his data from each source separately at the time he needs them; or we go to an aggregated service as a web service or app, which still raises problems in terms of performance or cost; or we explore the possibility of a 360-degree view on a citizen, a company or a building. Although technically preferable, this is not possible today within the current legal framework. The aim of the Putting Data project at the center was to provide integrated services in response to a legitimate demand. It's just a conceptual analysis. Each business case has been evaluated with our DPO. I would like to stress that the Putting Data project at the center does not process or integrate personal data from real natural persons. During the course of the project, various used cases were analysed with our partners and potential customers. For each used case, the feasibility is analysed from legal and technical terms and security terms but also from financial affordability. All DG DT processing operations are documented in our GDPR register, including the description of the processing, the finality and the legal basis. We are committed to security and privacy by design. We are convinced that the project has been dealt with in accordance with the applicable legal and procedural frameworks and that we have correctly identified and addressed the risks within the project. The project offers considerable potential for more efficient and effective public services for citizens and businesses. It offers economic potential and is necessary if new technologies, such as artificial intelligence, are to be able to work later. At present, the project has been terminated by order of the Secretary of State. At the moment we are working on data registers to make the processing process even more transparent. Our service portfolio on our website provides an overview of all the services we offer. On the page on authentic sources you will find the official list of all existing authentic sources as well as a guide on how to set up and include an authentic source. In addition, our colleagues from other public administrations can receive advice in setting up such an authentic source. Through the coordination committee of the federal service integrator, we also regularly consult with all participating public services and try to develop new initiatives to stimulate both the use and creation of new authentic sources. By offering such reusable tools and advice, we also support the whole of public services. For the future, we will focus on five main tracks: the creation of more insight into government data available in government, improving data governance and increasing the number of authentic sources, facilitating simple and customer-oriented access to government data, developing smart data services, increasing transparency via my.government data, and the follow-up and integration of the EU Data Governance Act, which is currently in the phase of finalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u4	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you also to the Secretary of State and to Mr Smeets for the explanatory statement. I have a number of questions that could possibly be answered today. A first observation is that this Parliament and perhaps also the government are not sufficiently concerned with data protection issues. I would like to use this exchange of views to ask everyone to comment on how we can improve Parliament's and government's control of the processing of personal data by the public authorities. Can colleagues and speakers take a position on this? For example, we can think of a six-monthly explanation by the competent government members in this committee, followed by a question session the following week. What is the policy on audits within this government? For example, can the Data Protection Authority be involved in a process of regular screening of the federal government's IT projects, or an ad hoc screening every time a new important part of the IT infrastructure is launched? Second point. The note that we have received and which has just been explained was so technical that we can imagine that not all the concerns of our fellow Members have been eliminated, especially among our French colleagues. In addition, there are more lawyers here than informants. I myself plead guilty, and you will certainly want to take that into account. The text is not always fully understandable; your speech was very enlightening. At the same time, we have already decided in this committee that we may have another hearing. Perhaps it is possible to give some more explanation of the texts, or to make them available. This can only further clarify the practical use of the applications described in the report. Thirdly, a number of colleagues from the other language role may be less interested in the data project and a bit more intriguing in Mr Frank Robben's intriguing figure. Mr Robben would have declared to a journalist of De Morgen last week. I would say that he has absolutely nothing to do with the Putting Data project at the center. That project gave rise to an article in Le Soir. Parliamentary questions were then raised, including in plenary. What exactly is Smalls' involvement in that project? What was the involvement of the Information Security Committee? Do you think it is plausible or not that Mr Robben has not, either directly or indirectly, come into contact with that project at all? Fourthly, Mr Secretary of State, you stated that you were not at all aware of the project, but I have just heard that you have stopped it. This question is also addressed to Mr Smeets: which government members of the previous government were talking about a 2018 project that might have been or should have been aware of that project? Fifth, of course we do not have a technology version. Making open data available as a government is, in our view, a very good thing. However, only an hour ago I saw what could go wrong. The vaccination centres are a burning topical theme for the people in practice. The mistakes in the lists of the Health and Health Agency mean that, to our bewilderment, it is completely impossible to vaccinate the protected category of people over 85 years of age. However, they must now be vaccinated urgently, and we are happy to follow the legal rules that have been laid down for the local authorities. There are mistakes. At the moment, 28-year-olds are being called in. Caregivers are forgotten in the story. The debate on correct data and an adequate and efficient crossing of those data is more than topical. I would also like to hear your views on this. The child must not be thrown away with the bath water here. Technological innovation is certainly welcomed by the N-VA, but of course we always want a careful balance between the right to privacy. It has also been a long time since yesterday that Mr Geens also intervened in a different composition in the committee. There is therefore no doubt that this open data policy should always pay due attention to anonymisation or pseudonymisation of personal data. As a matter of principle, this seems to be a good project, of which my former colleague, who followed up on this matter in the previous legislatures, was himself a long time away. You put it on hold, but what's to go on? Is the project being restarted? Will it be redirected? What open data policy do you have in mind? You remain very vague about that. You give us a number of very general considerations, but I would really like to know in detail what you are going to do with this and how you are going to proceed with it. You argued for total transparency in that article by Le Soir two weeks ago. You also used the word in your statement immediately. In this respect, we fully agree with you: private data does not belong to the state or civil servants, but to the citizen himself. The spirit of the GDPR wants to give citizens control of those personal data once again. Of course, a distinction must be made between what the government needs to combat, among other things, criminal activities. Let us be very clear about that. There must be no misunderstanding about that. It's always hard to make that distinction. The authorisation is central to this. In this context, I believe that a priority yard for the government should be electronic access for citizens to their personal data, by providing a portal for all government databases, but also through a single digital point of contact that easily guides citizens to each of the portals. In this way, the parties concerned may at any time find out which authorities and bodies have consulted which data in a specific database, or at what time the data has been updated and for what purpose. For example, they can fully exercise their rights enshrined in the GDPR, such as the right to improvement, the right to supplement or the right to expulsion. This portal already exists for the National Register, although there is still room for improvement. It will be seen that due to the material shortcomings and errors that we had in the vaccination debate, this will become topical. People feel it coming. This should be able to be rolled out fairly quickly for all government databases. Citizens have a right to this, and it will certainly improve public confidence in data protection and data processing in particular, and citizens' confidence in public authorities in general. In the future we may have to read apocalyptic articles less often in Le Soir. It is very striking that in the French-speaking press there has been an incredible amount of attention to this, while in the Dutch-speaking press there is hardly anything about this. Such articles are all very apocalyptic in the French-speaking press, if I may describe them as such. This, of course, increases the distrust of the citizens, and also of the representatives of the people, of the government's data policy. In the report you have just presented, I am pleased to read that work will be done on this yard. But what exactly is the policy, what is the further planning, what is the further timing for this yard? In my view, this should not be postponed, even in the medium-term. The team must be dealt with immediately and be dealt with as quickly as possible. Thank you and I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u5	Secretary of State, Mr Smeets, thank you for coming very quickly to present this project. An apocalyptic article has told us facts unrelated to any democratic process. We live in special moments. The health crisis, the collection of data, the lack of confidence in the environment, and the search for truth are indeed a rather worrying cocktail for our fellow citizens. As parliamentarians, we are being called upon by parliamentarians who blame us for not fulfilling our role. We must not miss out on several elements in the database, since it is the legislator who determines the purpose and purpose of the database. The Council of State and the Data Protection Authority also participate in this democratic control of the collection of our data. The article in question upset us all. Mr Secretary of State, I have heard your willingness to make all the transparency in this area, as you had already announced in plenary. Mr Smeets, I have read this report carefully. You explained to us that BOSA did not cross-check the data, but that it only transferred it as part of a justified request. It is enshrined in the law and was validated by the Council of State and the Commission on the Protection of Privacy at the time. Therefore, I think that control exists and that I have no doubt about it. However, I wonder about the purpose of centralizing all user data. I understand that it will be the services of the State, but also the private operators, who will deal with them. I would like to hear more about this, as the article referred to the KBC in particular. I therefore believe that it is essential to clarify this point. I come to the origin of this project. I am surprised, Mr Secretary of State, that you were unable to reassure us from the day of the plenary session. If I understand correctly, and you will correct if I am wrong, this Smart Data Services project was included in Mr. De Croo under the previous legislature. It was in 2017 that the idea of "Putting Data at the center" appeared on Mr. From Croo. That is an important question. The legal basis is therefore the law of 5 May 2014 guaranteeing the principle of single data collection. I would like to know what supervisory authority is in relation to this service integrator. It is the minister responsible, but there is a complementary supervisory authority. When I read the document, I also looked for the connection with Smals. Could you confirm that there is a connection with Smals? If there is no such link, what is the exact link with the CSI? Is that where Mr. Robben could be involved? Who started this project? Who was the appropriate minister? I'm asking for confirmation. Mr Secretary of State, you also said that today would be a bit of a big night. You called for a transparency operation to restore trust with the citizen. I have not heard you speak of an exact strategic plan to restore that confidence. It's not just trust, it's also in legislation. What will be put in place? We will anticipate the evaluation of the Data Protection Authority. What is your vision of things in relation to the CSI? You were talking about "nebula." What's your plan for the big night? Do you feel like you haven't suspended this project fast enough? It is, in a way, part of the projects eligible for the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u6	Madam President, first of all, I should like to thank the Secretary of State and Mr Smeets for their intervention. I remain troubled by this project, although we have received a number of clarifications. It can be understood that the state processes sensitive data. It can even be understood that the State may have to cross-check personal data. In itself, this is not the problem, as long as the GDPR is respected and as long as parliamentary control exists in one way or another. I understand that BOSA does not cross data, but I am not entirely reassured that this cannot happen in the future and that we cannot cross health data, judicial data, social security or tax data tomorrow. Under the GDPR, this set of private or even intimate information must be manipulated for a specific, legitimate purpose and with a mandate from Parliament. It is clearly at this level that there can be debate. Indeed, I still have the impression that we are dealing with a draft which is not sufficiently framed by a legislative text or by any evidence-based administrative document. In doing so, political control remains insufficient at this stage. There is still a confidence pact between the Belgian citizen and the State to ensure that the data it entrusts to the latter are treated fairly. The State must respect this pact in all circumstances and, therefore, ensure that the personal data of our citizens are processed in full transparency. I welcome the desire for transparency and the additional information that has been given to us. However, Mr Michel, do you not think that this project should be framed by legislation that is a little stronger and a little stricter than it is today, or do you simply agree with the conclusions of the BOSA report? Why is the Data Protection Authority not involved in this project? Does not the so-called Information Security Committee appear to be a way of diverting control from Parliament, the Council of State and ODA? Finally, what is the role of Smals and Robben in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u7	Madam President, if there is one thing that is right about the covid crisis, it is that it has highlighted the whole discussion on privacy, that is quite clear. This makes it possible for one newspaper article to create a huge splash around a project that has existed since 2017. In the meantime, I thought the dust had gone down a bit, but I can tell from some questions that this is not quite the case. I would nevertheless like to call on you to look beyond the delusions of the day and to use this mainly to have a good discussion about what really matters, especially our data. That is an essential discussion. Today, we see that both in the private market and in the public sector, also an important owner of many data, there is an important discussion about our data pool. Our data is indeed ours and that is very important. For many of the companies I shouldn't mention, "The Google, Amazons and Facebooks of this world," this is particularly important: integrating our data into our data pool as much as possible and getting started with it. As far as I'm concerned, there's a real danger in that. We need to take a good look at that and definitely have a discussion about it. Today's discussion is about the government. I agree with a lot of what has already been said. Mr D'Haese said that the government does not have the right to have our data at its disposal. She does have our dates. The big question is: can we, as citizens, also know who has what dates? When I read the article, we ended up in 1984 and the project is Big Brother. That's how I read the article. The question is whether the article should be read in this way. It could also be that anyone looking through another pair of glasses is of the opinion that the design of this project is just to give citizens a good picture of what the government has, what information it has on me, and to make it a bundling. That's one way of looking at it. On the basis of one newspaper article, I don't want to burn down the whole project, but I do have questions. It is good that we are critical when it comes to our own data. Firstly, I read in the file, which was quite technical, that the project was approved by Opera. Wasn't that supposed to happen at government level? How did that go at the time? Secondly, it says that there has been one used case in the Best 1 project. Could you give us a little more explanation on that? After all, that's interesting to know. Thirdly, you say you want to strengthen the only-one principle. However, I read the opposite in the report, where people are just saying that we need to relax earlier. I would have liked to have been given a little explanation. Fourthly, a phrase that does concern me is that of economic potential. What's that supposed to mean? We're not selling data, are we? That can't be the intention. That is, of course, a very important point of attention. Fifth, I also have a question about algorithms and data. We shouldn't look far. We have seen what happened in the Netherlands with the surcharge affair. That's just about this kind of thing. We are also working on this in the Advisory Committee on Scientific and Technological Questions. One of the proposals for further digging is to apply algorithms to data, especially in public administrations. What's going on here? After all, I read something about algorithms in the document and I think that we should deal with them very carefully, especially in view of what has happened in the Netherlands. Finally, what are we going to do now?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u8	Madam President, Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Director General, thank you for the clarification. Mr. Director-General, the question that I ask myself first concerns the very existence of this project. The report states that the proposal was made by a consultant from Smals, unless I am mistaken, and that the proposal was accepted or confirmed by several officials. How did this project come about? Who asked? Is a public authority, a political authority, or is it an initiative of its own that is beyond the control of the policy? Secondly, on the substance of the project, I agree with my colleagues who find the article in the newspaper Le Soir quite overwhelming on this subject, particularly on the privacy aspect. You say that all the steps have been taken with respect to privacy, but there are two elements that contradict this statement. First, there is the legal aspect. In the GDPR, any data processing, even having just a data bank and access without processing the data itself is considered a data processing. The law provides that any data processing must be regulated by legislation. In this context, respect for privacy is not guaranteed without legislation. In addition, there is the question of the fundamental purpose of data processing. It must be defined in advance. In this project, it is not clear what the purpose is because it is to consolidate the data and, depending on the needs of each department or department, etc., to provide the data requested. The lack of a definition of purpose, which was previously required, was a problem. What do you say when you say that the procedure was done with respect to privacy? How is it that neither the aspect of the purpose nor the aspect of legality – the absence of a law passed by Parliament that would have defined the contours of the processing of these data – have been taken into account? Parliament would have been unable to take a decision on this proposal, given that we were not aware of it. We've been warned by the press. This is an interesting element as to the nature of this project! The question of Smals in general also arises. In fact, it was already seen that the ASBL was out of control: it acted independently and was not accountable to any political authority. This project confirms this situation and raises questions about the existence of Smals as such. Should we not, Mr Secretary of State, put in place measures to solve this problem? Such an important undertaking must be subject to political control. We need to define the contours. Would Smals not be the standard example of a company that should be under public control rather than under the status of ASBL, thus avoiding public and democratic control? This case is also revealing something else. I will not mention names to avoid controversy, but there is a real conflict of interest problem. Some people are present at the different stages of this data processing, and even until the Data Protection Authority (PAD). Here too, there are conflicts of interest. How can ODA be guaranteed as a safeguard for privacy by knowing that there are conflicts of interest within it; knowing that there are people who are supposed to be controlled by ODA? This is a big problem for our democracy. It must be taken into account. Together with my group, we have taken steps to find solutions to these conflicts of interest. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to have your opinion on this, whether you have any suggestions, and whether you support the various steps that have been taken. I now turn to the role of the Information Security Committee. This committee is problematic because the only competent authority in Belgium is ODA. The Information Security Committee is beyond its competence to act on these issues. There is even a potential illegality in the sense that the only recognized and official authority for monitoring data processing is ODA. The Information Security Committee should not replace it. Mr. Director General, you talked about potential partners and clients. In the article in the newspaper Le Soir, one talks about the KBC. When you say "clients and potential partners", are private companies included in these terms? Can private companies use this data? Finally, Mr Secretary of State, you have rightly stopped this project because it really raises questions and is quite problematic. I believe that the various interventions have expressed this well here. Would it not be wiser to completely cancel the project? Any draft of this kind must go through a political request framed by a legislative text, discussed and debated in Parliament. Indeed, it concerns a very important topic, namely the personal data of our fellow citizens. Would a cancellation not be more judicious than a mere suspension of the project?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. You have provided us with a report that gives a positive picture for citizens and businesses of this use of data. The aim of not having to give the same data several times, to save time and to be able to cope with a more fluid administration is certainly commendable. The citizen can see an interest in it. Citizens are often heard complaining that they have to give the same information to the state several times. From the point of view of the citizen and Parliament, the problem is that we are moving from a situation in which the exchange and processing of data are there to help the citizen to a system – and the covid has undoubtedly accentuated this perception – in which data processing can be used for the control of the citizen. At that point, we're not in the imagination anymore, but we feel like we could get close to a dystopia. Some colleagues have talked about an article in Le Soir, but there have been several. Journalists do their job, they do research, and they have focused on certain things, perhaps more on the French-speaking side of the country, so we have this interesting debate today. More and more data processing is allowed, but it seems to be more through the actions and deliberations of the Information Security Committee than by the law itself. However, in the Committee on the Interior, we have held hearings with several data protection experts, academic professors, the Director of ODA and the Director of the Knowledge Centre. They reminded us that the Information Security Committee should limit itself to determining how data should be processed and should not allow other people to have access to it. Perhaps the legislation establishing the Information Security Committee allows this, and it may need to be evaluated, but the fundamental principles of data processing, such as the GDPR, do not support this. These are higher standards and direct application. This has also once again been endorsed by the Council of State and ODA in the context of the analysis on the cooperation agreement on vaccination which was voted on this Tuesday in the House Health Committee. While this architecture, which is in a pilot phase and has now been finalized by our Secretary of State, may not be a problem in itself, questions remain. What else could it allow other than this laudable goal to facilitate the life of the citizen? What are the risks if this could be used as a support for data processing which would not have been authorised by Parliament after the usual safeguards of the opinion of the Data Protection Authority and the opinion of the Council of State? These are legitimate questions that we can ask ourselves. Smals is more like a creator of computer "trays". We have stakeholders like BOSA who are putting in place a system in the spirit and in the continuation of the law of May 2014. Should we not, however, think about the drifts that might occur? Is it not necessary for a law to frame these pilot experiments which have been carried out and which allow them to continue if the objective is commendable but with the passing of a law so that the processing of data, the transmission of data, the purpose, if it is different from that of the law of 5 May 2014, are validated by a law? Transparency must be achieved. Mr. Secretary of State, that is your intention. You sent it to the press and you confirmed it to us. I'm glad. Transparency is paramount in an area as sensitive as personal data and even more so in this crisis we know where health data are recognized by the GDPR as sensitive data. The MR Group really calls for citizens to have access to all the data that the state holds about them. Mr Secretary of State, it is also your wish to create access that would allow every citizen to view, correct or have deleted the data available to the State. It also seems essential to me that the "only ounce" legislation on which this project is based be clarified. Is it intended to allow a public authority to receive the requested data from an authentic source? By what formalities? A simple authorization from the Information Security Committee? Do we consider this to be sufficient to meet the requirements of the Constitution and the GDPR? This should be considered in general, especially since a complaint has been lodged with the European Commission on the functioning of the CSI. Citizens must have access to their data, with a right to rectification. Mr. Secretary of State, you will have our full support to work in this direction. At the hearings in the Committee on the Interior, we heard that some countries go so far as to publish algorithms, in the interests of transparency. This is a question I ask: would it be possible to publish algorithms, to have access to them? Let's stop saying that GDPR is there to prevent things! From what we have been told, the RGDP would not prohibit, for example, the collection of license plates and the control of travel restrictions due to the health crisis, which is leaving the country. It is not impossible to create such a system. But the GDPR requires that it be Parliament, an elected legislature that decides what data is being collected, for what purpose and who will have access to it. It is essential, in this moment of crisis, that the citizen know in advance what data we have about him, what they will be used for and for what purpose. And, to the extent that criminal sanctions for non-compliance with health measures are at risk, citizens have the right to know, in the name of the principle of criminal law of predictability, whether their behaviour will be punished or reprehensible. This is another aspect of transparency, which clearly shows that this data processing is not something that turns on itself, but it touches on the very foundation of our society and on what the Venice Commission calls a formula that I appreciate: "the constitutional heritage of Europe". We all want to defend this heritage. For this reason, Secretary of State, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for the few explanations you were able to give us at this committee meeting. If, by chance, I could not hear your answers, it is because I will have to attend at 2:15 p.m. the debate with the Minister of the Interior on Bill Pandemia, some of which is related to what we are dealing with right now. So do not see any disinterest on our part, because we will follow closely the continuation of this exchange thanks to the video. First of all, I would also like to thank the press – and I think you should also congratulate it – for its investigative work which has been pursued very seriously and which has led to the break-up of this case not at all trivial. For this reason, we must underline the work that has been undertaken. Thanks to him, and you recognized him, we were all informed of the existence of this project. It was important to stress that. Besides, I wanted to thank you for wearing your boots to clean Augias' stables, if you pass the phrase. It is indeed a huge file that you have attacked. In plenary, you have shown a certain willingness, and I thank you for that. You have also just announced some of the construction sites on which you are on the floor. It's essential. I hope – and I certainly do not doubt it – that the actions will follow the words in order to settle this colossal issue with multiple ramifications. As colleagues have pointed out, it concerns data protection, the presence of conflicts of interest, the role of Parliament, legality and constitutionality, etc. All these aspects are essential, especially and most importantly in the period before us, since it deprives many people of their freedoms. For health reasons, this proportionality will be the subject of the debate which will take place earlier in the Committee on the Interior. I hope and I guess that doesn't mean on your part that, on the aborted project, it would be: "Circulate, there's nothing to see!" As other colleagues have said, the report we have received is very technical. Most of us are lawyers. It's not that we don't understand, but it feels like he's drowning the fish. I still have a fundamental question: who, at some point, ordered or requested this data centralization project? Why and for what purpose? Is this a way to facilitate the work of users? These users would tend to think that they are our fellow citizens. However, users are administrations and other bodies. To make it easier? How would it be? Why have we allowed ourselves to exceed legal rules in relation to this? I think the crux of the problem is there too. Of course, you have announced reforms for the future. I applaud when you announce these reforms, but I don't think you can say on the aborted file: "Circulate, there's nothing to see!" This is something fundamental that has been revealed by the press and for which you have been indignant. I think we need to clean up this case and get to know the bottom of the story. Has this project been put in place under political control? Personally, I don't think so. But I'm not informed enough to know. Who is leading this important operation? How is it that it does not come to the ears of the executive first, then of the legislature in its supervisory role? As you know, Parliament is also completely out of line with this project. It is, however, the only body competent to legislate on these sensitive matters restricting freedoms. I think you need to enlighten us, but maybe not immediately. Indeed, I suppose that you yourself are trying to depaint yourself in an extremely complex case, not only technical but also broad ramifications. I believe that it will also be necessary for the future to deal very clearly with the Security Council. We need a law. Parliament will once again have to intervene when it comes to the appointment of its members and its tasks. It is also a major project. Without this essential body with the necessary independence that must be its own and without, however, exceeding its powers, we will miss out on the target. It will also be necessary - not a scoop - to look at ODA. I'm not talking about the opinions she's giving. Rather, it is a matter of making it a true Data Protection Authority. It is not enough to look at his opinions and think that they are interesting, without taking them into account. The opinions it gives are extremely relevant. Unfortunately, they have been tainted by conflicts of interest, a lack of independence. Nevertheless, on the substance, they remain extremely relevant, particularly during the period before us. So let us not spoil this important work of expertise because of conflicts of interest. Mr. Secretary of State, we would like to know how you intend to take this truly essential ODA issue, which has a significant supporting role in bringing its expertise to bear on all the issues before us. These are the subjects I wanted to ask you about. Before I finish my speech, I would like to congratulate you for putting on your boots, knowing that in my opinion, you will soon have to put on your jacket or parka because it is a dossier that will still cause a lot of ink to flow. In any case, Parliament wishes to be kept informed of the various steps you will take.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u11	Madam President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for my lateness, I had an obligation I could not escape, but I am very grateful to qu'on jette la lumière for a project that has led to a lot of commotion. I therefore assume that the present sitting is not the last to be devoted to this issue. Any suspicions that have been raised as a result of that project should be given the opportunity to be contradicted or confirmed in the Chamber. I very much appreciate the freedom of the press and the investigative journalism I am particularly fond of, but I would very much like to take full advantage of the opportunity here so that anyone who is accused can defend themselves, if that defence can be pertinent to give transparency to which we are so committed. For several years, I have had the honour of being part of various governments. I have never heard anything other than the following three things from my services or other services about what we are discussing. Firstly, it is said that our government is not sufficiently computerized. We can't go. We're not able to follow. If you look at the reports of the Committee on Justice since 2000, you will always hear all the parties and Members saying that the computerization of this country is suboptimal and that it does not work, not just in the case of Justice. There was one exception, namely the Crossroads Bank of Social Security, created by then Minister for Social Affairs, Mr Dehaene, with the help of a certain Mr Robben. That was 30 years ago. I feel like that database is working. So, despite everything, there are things that work in this country. A second question I heard on a permanent basis is that in order to deal with crime and terrorism, I, as a minister, had to ensure that all possible networks were accessed, with the permission of the investigating judge. Otherwise, it was impossible to track the crime. In the context of the health crisis, I remember one message from the experts very well in March 2020. If we put the contact tracing to the point, we can overcome the epidemic. That wasn't repeated five or ten times, it was repeated a hundred times. That had to be done in accordance with privacy law and that happened somewhere in early May. That didn't go without a fight. That's the hardest thing there is, and there aren't many people in this country who are capable of cutting buttons at such a time. Did that happen successfully or not? At that time we were told that vaccination could not be delayed for more than two years. We are constantly talking about the bones of the Secretary of State whom he has fortunately done. Ik zou zeggen to war as to war. In March and May it was war in a way. I would ask this hemisphere to realize that we live in the century of 'dataism'. That is an absolute certainty and all a person has to do is make good use of it, if necessary with the permission of the judge, with all possible Chinese wallets and hermetic closures. We certainly shouldn't go so far as to give those data to one person. That would be the dumbest thing we can do, but the government has to be a performer in this piece. The people won't forgive her. I'm not that young anymore and so I recently, at 63 years old, allowed myself to tap into mypension. I found mypension.be within five minutes. Didn't I get that now? What did I say? What does that government know about me to give me that data? One thing and the other, which I might not want her to know. For example, where I've all worked. Is it so much fun for the government to know that with one push of a button? Maybe not, but I was able to tell my wife what my pension would be if I exceeded 65 years of age and was no longer elected. That's all happened. I would therefore like to ask a number of parties. We need to check and we need to monitor privacy very closely. I have no problem with that, but I think there is a real mistake in the ideological struggle of the enemy. I'm not afraid of Secretary Michel. I'm not afraid of Secretary Lalieux either. I could add: I am not even afraid if that minister or that minister becomes competent to do so. I'm afraid of all the private providers. I note that they consider themselves to be some kind of public network, through which anyone can spread any junk. Those parties who are keen on the free market should also see this. What Facebook, Twitter, Whatsapp, Instagram and TikTok can do, I'm even more afraid of what my little Belgian government can do when she knows I was driving a Volvo as a minister. Did the Minister of Finance know I was driving a Volvo from the state? You drove a Volvo S60 and that's an advantage of all kinds, because that Volvo wasn't yours. Then I say: I'm sorry they already know I was driving a Volvo S60. Luckily, that's not a big car, but they know that too. Fortunately, TikTok doesn't know anything about me yet, but what Facebook and Twitter all know about me, because I can't help but participate in that music. That's what our Secretary of State must do. There's the fight. It took ten years to muzzle a man like Mr Trump. Only then was it recognized that one was not like AT&T or Ma Bell, that one was a private provider who also has ethical standards. That's a goddamn complaint. We all let that happen. We are incapable of doing so. This is gradually beginning to improve, but please let us not be mistaken about the enemy. I would like Mr Robben to explain it here instead of being constantly attacked in the newspapers. Maybe that's right. It's quite possible that he's made 1,001 mistakes. However, he must be given the opportunity to explain. One must not mistake one's enemy. Because privacy, that's a dirty war, if we're not careful. I would like the Belgian government, with all due respect for the necessary legislative work, to have the opportunity to organise itself properly so that its citizens are served in a 21st-century manner. And that's where today's vaccination strategy is also limping. That is regrettable: people are not summoned as they should be. It is important that we organize ourselves properly. In this debate it sometimes seems as if the Belgian government is our enemy, but in fact it is our friend. I cannot imagine that, in the previous government, the ministers responsible for privacy would have completely let their administration roll. If that is the case, then we must, of course, look at it thoroughly. But I wouldn't like this witch hunt to continue the way it is now being waged, because then I'll put on my bones as well. I would like this debate to be conducted objectively. I would also like those who are accused to be listened to. If they need to be removed, so be it. But anyone who has been doing excellent services to this country since 1986 to prove the contrary is attacking it in this way? In other countries one would thank them with an honorable pension. And it may end if one does not hear the person in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u12	In response to that point, I remember that we in our committee had already decided to invite Mr Robben. So if everyone agrees with that, we will also include it in our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u13	Madam President, I will leave it to Mr Smeets to answer the technical questions and the implications of each other on this issue. I haven't joined the government in a very long time and I'm having a moment of emotion. I feel that we are living an important moment because things are being said about the efficiency of the state, its simplification, its digitalisation. I also hear a lot about privacy and fundamental freedoms. It is important to put all the elements on the table. The situation is neither black nor white and the truth lies in the shades of colours. Today, technology allows us to do everything. The real question is what we want to do with it. The real question is what is our vision for data, for simplification, for research, for the connection between innovation and personal data, pseudonymized and anonymized. It is important to see how society and every elected member of this Parliament take up these fundamental issues. What is the world we want for tomorrow? I have heard Mr D'Haese say that politics must become more involved, understand more. It may be a complicated debate, but politics must be involved. That is why, Madam President, you are giving me my first moment of emotion on the benches of this Parliament. As I said in my introduction, trust and transparency are essential when it comes to fundamental freedoms. I still have a lot of faith in the work of the federal officials. I am aware of the scale of the work that has been done over many years with a view to creating a more effective and citizen-oriented administration. I will also allow myself to share with you my reading of the situation we are facing about the Putting Data at the center project. But I will also talk more comprehensively about a number of projects. In fact, Belgium is much more digitalized than it seems. And in many respects, we are even ahead of other countries. There are a lot of questions about why this project is going on. What was the point? Who had this purpose? Indeed, through the legislative history of our country, whether it was in 2012 or 2104, whether it was the Privacy Act in 2018, the "Only Once" Act or the Integrator Act, a number of laws have been passed here. It may not have been by you directly, but by your predecessors. They have laid down a framework, on which questions should be asked, as to its accuracy. It may be necessary to go further, or to be more specific about a number of elements. But indeed why is clear. It is about simplifying people's lives, bringing a real answer, an improvement to everyone's life, using the digitalization of the state. Why isn't the problem? That's the way that's the right question. How do we do it? With what level of transparency, readability? With what level of access for every citizen to the very functioning of the State? The reason is not the problem, ladies and gentlemen, it is the way it is. I sincerely believe that it is on this point that I must focus my efforts. But I believe that Parliament must also devote a great deal of effort to this. The digitalisation of the State started a long time ago. Digitalization did not raise so many questions and the digitisation of processes was more a task for computer scientists and technicians. Over the years, technical needs have raised increasing legal questions. The legislator has established a general and sometimes inaccurate legal framework. In my opinion, we can rightly question the ethical and political maturity of this legislation, but the framework has made digital progress possible. Today, and especially since the implementation of the GDPR, or even more recently, the citizen as well as the legislator are evolving in a much more lucid framework regarding the issues of personal data in the context of the covid-19 crisis. It is likely that some questions now arise in a more intense or at least more understandable way than they could have been in the 1990s. Today, the answers can no longer be technical or legal answers. We need to build ethical and political responses that deserve a transparent and public debate. Colleagues, the best place to have this debate is this House. The best way to conduct this debate is to restore a clear and transparent framework that does not hunt witches but that identifies, in a relevant way, both the processes and the data protection actors. My plan is actually very simple. First of all, it is to draw up a photograph of the existence, a cadastre of all the personal data available to the State on the citizens, the use made of it, by whom, for what reasons and within what legal regulatory framework. Secondly, as has been mentioned, it is to give our citizens access to this cadastre concerning their own data via a centralised ergonomic solution. I'm not gonna lie to you. I'm not a technician. But I also know that the tools we are talking about, whether Putting Data at the center or others, are technical tools that, depending on the purpose assigned to them, can serve both the citizen and other purposes. It is for this reason that when such tools are put in place, there must be a capacity for transparency, readability, understanding of each and every one of them about what is being done with this tool. But digitalization is not an end in itself. It's a tool for our fellow citizens. This second aspect, which is to provide the technical means for citizens to have access to their own personal data included in this cadastre, is therefore an essential element in restoring confidence in a fundamental way. If you have to reorient a project, whether it's Putting Data at the center or any other, find the technical means to do it! Technology makes it possible to do everything. I know that behind this project there was this initial desire to simplify the lives of our fellow citizens. I come to the third element, probably the most important and also the one that will ask us for the most exchange, debate and reflection: to carry out an in-depth reform of the legislative framework but also of the actors who regulate our personal data, after a complete evaluation of the privacy law. I do not want to confuse, ladies and gentlemen, speed and haste. I hear requests about what I'm going to do with this or that. I think it is necessary to take the time for a real analysis, to identify in a meaningful way, as part of the evaluation of the 2018 Privacy Act that I have already begun, how ODA works. I know that an audit has been requested by Parliament for information and external reading. I also know that there are many questions about the Information Security Committee. I don't know, too. Should the Only Once Act evolve in a particular direction? We must ask ourselves these questions in a calm manner. I do not want to prejudge the outcome until I have conducted this analysis, which must be carried out in a totally dispassionate and objective manner. However, I can tell you, and it is quite obvious in the exchanges we have today, that the challenge we are facing will be to restore the right balance between ethics, law and technology. It is perhaps possible to imagine that in the 1990s the development of digitalisation took place more technically. The legal system has come to recover the sauce and today political and ethical issues arise in a colossal way. We're going to have to take over the legal and technical aspects of the issues that we want to develop as part of this vision. What world do we want for tomorrow? I confess that asking the question is already starting to answer it. That is why, Madam President, I am very moved today. I repeat, the management of personal data and data in general is a major challenge in drawing the world in which we want to live tomorrow. Personally, I remain convinced that the most legitimate place to draw this world is this Chamber and that of all the democratic entities of our country enlightened by the wisdom of all citizens. Indeed, Mrs Matz is no longer there, but I can tell her, however, that I have had excellent boots that I have been using for a number of years now. I've even got cooks, if you have to go to the turbin. I can tell you that I will put all my energy and motivation into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u14	Madam President, I apologise if the file is too technical. The dossier was prepared the day after the article in Le Soir and was intended for the Minister to quickly provide him with a framework of what we were doing. I have no problem with it being forwarded to the committee and feeding the discussion here, but it was not written for that, if I may specify. They talk about qualitative investigative journalism, but the article in Le Soir was an amalgamation of elements that were thrown together and I cannot endorse that article. The question of vaccination was raised several times. Perhaps one of the problems is just that some authentic sources are missing from our landscape. Today we have no authentic source to contact our citizens quickly. The choice must be made by politicians. I'd be happy to leave that discussion to you. In any case, if we do not have an authentic source of contact details, we will not be able to conjure the public quickly. In this respect, we are faced with a tension of different laws. I would like to thank you for having discussed this issue here in Parliament, because it has not been sufficiently discussed in recent years, and it has had to be done. We are happy to participate in these discussions, which is why we are here today to answer your questions. Citizens have the right to transparency. We would like to contribute to this. It's a difficult story, but if we don't get it explained here, we probably won't get it explained to the citizen either. As far as controls and audits are concerned, we are constantly under control. We currently have four audits of the Federal Internal Audit Service. Those reports will be delivered to the Minister next month. There's definitely surveillance. Immediately after the article, the Data Protection Authority also asked us to explain the whole project and the approach. We have also provided the Director of the Data Protection Authority with a dossier containing the necessary annexes. They'll follow up on that. Also for punctual files we regularly consult with the Data Protection Authority, both formally and informally. Then I come to the questions about the Information Security Committee. However, I would like to stress that Members have all been appointed by Parliament. The dossier for the appointment of new members has been pending for some time. We have called for it on several occasions. So this isn't about people in the administration. The Information Security Committee has two chambers: one for social security and health and one for the federal government. When necessary, they shall sit together in a unified chamber. It is important that the members of the Information Security Committee are the experts who help to build a bridge between the technical environment and the legal debate. After all, it is about a multitude of legislation. Let it be clear that we do not do any processing without a legal basis. However, this legal basis is spread across all possible legislation in Belgium. Of course, every Belgian is supposed to know the legislation, but it is sometimes difficult. The Information Security Committee helps us to find our way in this, to create a common framework and to ensure that it is correctly applied and followed. On the basis of benchmarks, we have established that we have a high degree of maturity in Belgium in terms of digitisation and technical building blocks, but that we are rapidly declining in terms of implementation. We need clarity. That is a challenge for tomorrow, which we must not forget now. A few years ago, we were in third place in the Digital Economy and Society Index (DESI) of European countries. Today we are already in ninth place. And it's happening very quickly with technological developments. Smalls is involved as one of our suppliers. We have a piece of our infrastructure at Smalls, for which we also pay. This is covered by concrete contracts. There has been an initial presentation of the Putting Data project at the center to our colleagues from Smalls. I cannot confirm whether Mr Robben is directly or indirectly aware of this. I propose, as Mr Geens said, to ask him himself. He's the best answer to that. So we do consult and Smalls is one of the parties, with whom we have regular contact. This was mainly about BEST, an authentic source. It is an authentic source of open data that has been put into a cooperation agreement between all governments in Belgium. All parliaments and the Council of Ministers have approved this. If people now say that there is no control over this, then I think that is a little too far. It concerns open data, official address data in Belgium. There was indeed interest from Fost Plus and KBC. However, it was purely about the address file as open data, there are no personal data in it. Companies such as bpost were also interested in this. We have enormous potential if we in Belgium can finally agree on our addresses and how we apply them correctly. In economic life, too, it helps enormously, if one has a reference for the addresses. The finality of each processing is very clear and documented. The legal basis is present and must be documented before the exchange can be put into production. If there is any doubt, we request the opinion of the Information Security Committee. All these advices and permissions are also published on his website, so anyone can consult them at any time. By the way, we are working on a register that is more consultable to untangle that spaghetti further. Our first and original legal basis is the law governing the service integrator. It was approved in 2012 following several discussions in Parliament. She makes it very clear what the service integrator can and can do. At present we do not apply algorithms to the processing of the data. We are working in the framework of AI for Belgium, a collaboration with private companies to implement a European ethical charter, including for the Belgian environment, to establish clear and clear principles. We are really asking to improve the transparency of current use. All this information can be found on our website. It may well be that the citizens have difficulty finding their way in this and that we need to strengthen it. If the current discussion can help, we would like to have them. We're working on tooling. Tooling is already available for your own data. We also make the tools available to other public services. Today, every authentic source has as its mission the creation and maintenance of a processing register. For the citizen, this is a mass of data. For the FOD BOSA alone, we are currently reaching 470 processing operations, of which 400 have now been documented and validated. The seventy other processing operations are for the coming weeks. However, it is not obvious if citizens find their way in this. That is why central access to all registers can certainly help. The objective is to provide an efficient and effective public service through digitalisation but not in spite of everything. I hope that I have been able to answer most of the questions in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u15	Are there any colleagues who would like to replicate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u16	Madam President, today we are gathered around an incident and clarification about the "Putting Data at the Centre" file. The minister announced in plenary that he was suspending the case, despite a fairly detailed note. In the documents, we are told that this is an application that has been submitted to the European Commission as part of the Smart Data Services Recovery Plan. What is the Minister's intention with respect to this project? I did not hear him on the subject and I would like him to speak. Is the project suspended or will it resume? The evidence suggests that this is an incident and that things will continue. I have not heard any statement from the minister to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u17	I thought I was clear in my answer. Projects have been submitted at the PRR level, including a project called Unleashing Data, which aims to work on data within the strict framework of GDPR and aims to see how data, including open data, can be made more usable. For the "Putting Data at the Centre" project, as soon as the article of the newspaper Le Soir was published, I told Parliament that I would come to present the technical elements of the dossier. I think we've all been able to get to know about it. I confirm that at this stage, my priority is to restore transparency and confidence. All energy must be implemented using the technical aspects to make it possible to return the data to the citizen. I cannot be more clear: today we must restore transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the clarifications, but Parliament is still a little hungry. If we have learned one thing today, it is that we absolutely need to be more involved in this debate, both at Flemish, federal and European level. I certainly support Mr None's argument on that point. Mr Secretary of State, we must have an answer to the question of how you see parliamentary control in this essential debate. Are we moving towards six-monthly monitoring and how can parliamentary questions be linked to that? That seems very important to me, because in no way should we miss the authenticity of the debate on authentic sources. The time is now clear, so I ask you a very clear calendar and modus operandi: how will the representatives of the people fully exercise control over it which is more than essential? It has already been said incredibly much about a non-article, because today it has become clear that the article in Le Soir is not really an article. I described it as apocalyptic. It is Parliament's duty to hear Mr Robben on this matter in a just atmosphere, with elements à charge et à décharge. I would like to stress that at no time have I wanted to undermine the essential merit that has been achieved, but you must clearly contextualise everything. It is only natural that we should hear the person concerned in Parliament so that he can give concrete answers to certain questions. I welcome the fact that you have already mentioned that there have been contacts with that particular non-profit organisation which is an operational fact which you are communicating, but it is equally a public fact that the person concerned is a member of that non-profit organisation, so he may want to tell Parliament himself to what extent that is compatible or incompatible. I didn't say anything wrong with that, I say that in total neutrality. I do think that we should take the opportunity to hear those involved and also to continue the debate. We need to start developing legislative initiatives, because this is a more than urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u19	Mr Smeets, I would like to take advantage of your presence to ask you two more questions. According to my reading, this is a project in which we want to give citizens more access to their data and therefore to give a clearer overview of the data available to them. Is my reading of the project correct in that way? You say that companies like KBC are interested in those addresses, albeit disconnected from personal data. What is the advantage for KBC or why can it be interesting for KBC to only have address data, without any personal data attached to it? Can you describe that in more detail? For the rest, I thank you for your answers, because you have given quite a lot of answers to the questions I have asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u20	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State and Mr Smeets, for your explanations and your answers. Allow me to make it clear that I only want fiat lux, transparency at this level, and that the shadow war waged by the press ends. Several privacy agencies are managed and appointed by Parliament. In my view, it is important to establish a relationship with these bodies comparable to the Committee I and the Committee P. It is high time we moved in that direction. We sometimes meet behind closed doors, but the doors are never completely closed here, as I know. However, as open as they are here, I have rarely known them. It is therefore particularly essential to enter this debate. Parliament is not innocent in this debate. We are talking about these bodies as if they were not touching us and as if they were completely outside us, so that a senior official has to come and explain to us that we are actually in charge of the appointment, but have failed to do so. Sometimes I wouldn't like to sit in his chair. Mr Secretary of State, you will testify and all Members of Parliament will testify that I have been completely neutral in this regard. I have been pleased to hear that you are considering an evaluation of the law of 2018, which was laid down in the law, which I do know. We must not forget that this law is very recent. To the extent that I have been able to establish this from my seat in the Justice Department, the law, as it is called in pregnancy language, has been passed with the irons. Madam President, as you may know, I have heard the most passionate statements from members of the majority that that law was untouchable. Mr Secretary of State, I am neutral. I wanted to keep the law as it was. It's a somewhat difficult law, to put it politely, but I've stated at any time that the law could remain perfect for me as it was. Mr Secretary of State, you want to go for it now and thoroughly review and amend the law. If that is the case, I would have liked to know that, so that I can also inform other members of the majority, who obviously were not of your opinion, as the government's position.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u21	There are a few questions left. Mr Secretary of State, perhaps you can answer first. Mr Smeets, you also had a few questions to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to establish the roles of each of us. I hear the government has to play its part. As Secretary of State, I believe that things are quite simple with regard to the evaluation of the Privacy Act as it is provided for in the law itself. So I'm just submitting to it, Mr. Geens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u23	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u24	In the policy note that I presented in committee, which was submitted to Parliament, I refer to the evaluation of the Privacy Act, which is to take place within three years, given that this Act is dated July 30, 2018. So I think I can say that we are coming to the end. I was asked how I was going to proceed and how, if any, this legislation would be improved. The first act was to set up a steering committee consisting of four neutral and independent academics to carry out this evaluation. I intend – I want to be careful when it comes to deadlines – to present a report to you this summer on the law in question. This will enable parliamentarians to do the work necessary to improve what can be done. That is the case with the work in progress. Then it will be up to Parliament to act. As far as the transparency of the work that I am currently dealing with is concerned, I think I am not the only one who has to work on the problem. It is important to realize that. I remind you that I answer your questions in this committee every month. It is also parliamentary control that is expressed. Indeed, after this debate, we will move on to other questions. So I am always available, and it is always with great pleasure and with the concern of full transparency that I answer the questions that are asked to me. In short, parliamentary work is carried out through parliamentary questions. In addition, the evaluation of the Privacy Act will be a very important time and will be conducted in the most effective manner possible. Anyway, that's how I plan to work. I think I have answered the questions that have been asked to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u25	The first objective remains to organise the exchange of information in a standardised and interoperable way, but this can only be done if it is transparent for all concerned. The registers we are now building are just based on the data from the loggings and audits we keep of all data exchange. The intention is to put a window on this for the citizen himself, so that he can, for example, consult for the last six months who has consulted when which data has been consulted, for what purpose and on what legal basis. It forms a whole, where one cannot do without the other. Without transparency, we cannot organise this exchange either, but it remains a difficult matter to communicate properly today. The added value of such an address file is to have an official reference file somewhere. Today, all the Regions create their reference file of addresses. This means that we are currently working in Belgium with three different files, with three different standards, with different technical characters. We try to put it under a global dome, so that all governments can consult that file and so that, for example, a company can consult whether it is an existing address when someone explains it. This also means that companies such as bpost immediately gain a lot of time. There is no private record of this at the moment. It is necessary to further align the entire data management, the data governance and the framework of metadata to avoid each government working with its own framework. This movement is taking place in consultation today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u26	If there are no further replies, we can conclude this exchange of views. We will invite Mr Robben after the Easter holiday. Thank you, Mr Smeets. We will continue with the oral questions to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u27	Mrs. Jadin has been absent. Mrs Chanson is not here either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u28	Madam President, the question was originally put to Minister Verlinden. Some elements will undoubtedly be answered by the Secretary of State, others were specifically addressed to the Minister of the Interior. I do regret this shift. It is about the corona-MB and the processing of personal data. This MB of 12 January extended the corona measures until 1 March 2000 when the demand was submitted at a different time than at present, and included a provision giving the RSZ extensive powers to collect, merge and process, for the benefit of all services and institutions in charge of combating the coronavirus and monitoring the measures, health and other personal data of all employees and self-employed persons, including data mining and data matching. All this in order to support the detection and investigation of clusters and collections. The RSZ was allowed to collect data in advance, but only for the benefit of the contact centres, health inspections and mobile teams. The intention would now be for Sciensano's RSZ to find out who is infected and who is returning from the red zone abroad, so that health inspectors can prevent these people from spreading the virus further through their work. The objective is noble, but the provision is very vague according to privacy experts. What exactly does that mean, data mining and data matching? Which data is it about exactly? Of course, this provision should have been introduced by law and not by MB, especially in view of its scope. The mandatory advice of the Data Protection Authority (GBA) was not requested. And the experts are particularly concerned about the extension of the provision to "all services and institutions." Hence my questions to you. For what reason was no GBA opinion requested on the amendments made by the Ministerial Decree of 12 January to the Ministerial Decree of 28 October? Will the contested provision be repealed pending any further advice from the GBA? You may find that difficult to answer, because you are not the author of that MB, but you may have had contact with the Minister. What specific data processing was or is the contested provision intended for? Your colleague from Health said through his spokesperson that the measure would be intended to support the monitoring of compliance with quarantine rules at the workplace by the social inspection services. Is that right? What data would be processed in this way? Is there a possibility that fines may be issued on the basis of collected and/or processed data? My fifth question on the pandemic law falls for obvious reasons. This is currently being discussed with the Minister of the Interior elsewhere in this House. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers he wishes to give on behalf of the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u29	Secretary of State, this famous decree of 12 January 2021 directly implements a process of data processing at least intrusive and without prior notice. For example, ONSS is designated as a subcontractor of all institutions and services responsible either for combating the spread of covid-19 or for ensuring compliance with the obligations established to limit the spread of covid-19, for collecting or combining a range of data on public health, contacts, residences of both employees and self-employed workers, with a view to supporting the tracing and examination of clusters. On the one hand, it should be noted that there is no justification for this provision in the recitals preceding the operative part of the Ministerial Decree. On the other hand, a prior opinion from the Data Protection Authority would have been welcome without prejudice to the urgency of the measure. Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, can you let me know what is the justification for this mission entrusted to ONSS in terms of the management and processing of personal data in relation to the fight against covid-19? Why does the ministerial decree not contain recitals to clarify this mission? Why has the Data Protection Authority not received a request for an opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministerial Decision of 12 January 2021 was indeed adopted without the opinion of the Data Protection Authority. I had pointed out that this ministerial decision should be the subject of an opinion, as is the case for any regulation that may have an impact on the processing of personal data. In this case, however, it was necessary to react immediately and quickly, but I would like my colleague from the Interior to discuss this debate further. On the issue of data transfer to ONSS, I would like to point out that this can only be done in support of the authorities responsible for combating the spread of covid-19, in the context of carrying out their legal tasks. In doing so, ONSS acts as a subcontractor to these authorities and must therefore respect their legal framework as well as the GDPR. Today, I remain convinced that urgent action must be based on a robust and transparent regulatory framework. This is one of the lessons that we must learn through this pandemic and that has prompted the government to pass a Pandemic Bill, which is currently being debated in Parliament. Although imperfect for some, this Pandemia bill is, in my view, in the right direction. In discussions within the government, I worked to ensure as much transparency as possible with respect to data processing in the context of possible future pandemics. This preliminary draft, among other things, puts the issue of data protection at the heart of the democratic debate and I welcome it. It is a real will on my part to bring this debate back here. I think you understand that. ODA has been consulted on this draft law and believes that it is necessary for Parliament to decide on every measure and every data processing. This recommendation is currently under discussion in Parliament. As a democrat, I can only subscribe to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u31	I will start with the good news: I am pleased that the Secretary of State, as a democrat, agrees that the debate should be conducted more in Parliament. I hope he speaks in this regard in the name of the whole government. I think it is very important that I ask questions to the Minister of the Interior and then refer them to the Secretary of State, who says in his reply that the Minister of the Interior should be questioned about this. Here the perpetuum mobile has been invented, which is of course an interesting news for your colleague from Energy. We will no longer need nuclear power stations or even gas power stations, we will simply ask a parliamentary question and the round may generate energy for the whole country. All crazy on a stick, this isn't serious. If I put a question to the Minister of the Interior and she passes it on, then the answer cannot be that I should address myself to the Minister of the Interior. Secondly, Mr Secretary of State, there is a preliminary draft pandemic law. You are undoubtedly very busy and you have not been able to follow the work of the committee and of the experts, including the Data Protection Authority. If you say that this draft is going in the right direction, then I can tell you that almost all the experts have made chicken hoods of the design as presented, with the most sensible suggestion of simply deleting Article 6, because it is not amendmentable from the point of view that you consider so important, the defence and protection of privacy. This debate should indeed take place au coeur de la démocratie. I started with good news and I end with something on which I agree with you, but the intermediate part of my reply should be a reflection vote for the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer, although I am only half satisfied with it. I do not think that the urgency would have prevented the presence of valid recitals in this ministerial decree or the possibility of consulting the Data Protection Authority. All right! You recognize between the lines the limits of exercise and refer to the current debate on the Pandemic Act. We will indeed have the opportunity to talk about it again in another meeting room. I thank you, however, for dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u33	Madam President, Secretary of State, I am a little concerned about TikTok and I am not alone, I am in good company. Test Purchase and 16 other European consumer organisations complained to the European Commission. They particularly want TikTok to provide a safe environment for its users. We all know what users we are talking about. Today the lower limit at TikTok is 13 years old, but in practice it appears that many children circumvent those conditions of use and that many children are on that forum. They are confronted with content that is not suitable for children under the age of 13. I am thinking of the examples we know, the suicide videos and the like that can be seen on that forum. I think we should really worry about that. It cannot be possible for our children to be confronted with such images. In Italy, a whole thing has arisen from this, as a result of a girl's suicide. Garante, the Italian version of the Data Protection Authority, put pressure on TikTok. As a result, the Chinese company blocked all Italian accounts and people couldn't get back on the forum until they could prove they were older than 13 years old. One has also added a button, which people can use if they suspect that a particular user is under 13 years of age. How does Belgium deal with that? Have you contacted the GBA about this? Are you willing to put your own steps into this? I believe that the protection of children and young people on the Internet should be a priority for all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u34	Madam President, Mr Verduyckt, I have heard in the press that Test Purchase, together with 15 other consumer organisations, has lodged a complaint with the European Commission and the data protection authorities. As you mentioned, consumer associations have a number of complaints against TikTok regarding the transparency of its general conditions of use and its policy on the protection of minors against hidden advertising and their personal data. As regards the first aspect, the transparency of the general conditions of use, it appears that the management of personal data, the transfer of data to third countries and the rights of data subjects with regard to their data would not be in line with European data protection rules. There is no doubt that TikTok, in so far as it provides services within the European Union and collects data in Europe, must comply with the GDPR. The complaint is in line with many previous complaints against TikTok and is currently being examined in coordination with all data protection authorities within the European Data Protection Board. A working party has been set up on this issue. Our Data Protection Authority is following the issue closely and advocates a common European approach to TikTok. That seems to me to be the right approach. Equal investigations against international giants are best conducted on a large scale, especially at the European level. As regards the second aspect, the specific protection of minors against hidden advertising and personal data, it is true that on 22 January 2021 the Italian Data Protection Authority took provisional measures against TikTok by imposing a processing ban until the age of the user can be adequately checked. The use of TikTok by children under the age of 13 has been banned for some time, but TikTok has not carried out any checks. Following the decision of the Italian authorities, TikTok blocked all Italian accounts from 9 February. Only the return of users who can demonstrate that they are over 13 years of age on the basis of their date of birth is permitted. Our GBA could not provide me with data on the use of TikTok by minors under 13 years of age in Belgium. Nevertheless, it is in dialogue with, among other things, the Italian and (...) supervisory authorities to ensure that uniform protection can be obtained for all EU citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u35	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. I understand that the GBA doesn't have that data, but I think we all know that a lot of kids are on that platform. It is good that you say that GDPR is not in order. In itself, I can support a common European approach. In addition, our country can always give a signal itself. That's what Italy's doing now. Our country has already done so in the field of human rights and animal rights. We have sometimes adopted certain legislation which has led to changes in other European countries or throughout the continent. That's important. In our Parliament there is also an advisory committee dealing with scientific issues, where a resolution is in the process of calling on the government to pay particular attention to the protection of children on social media. That is the message I would like to give today. That is the most important thing in this matter. We shall come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u36	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55014934C and No. Mrs Kattrin Jadin's 55015186C is converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u37	Secretary of State, Le Soir revealed this Monday that the medical data of Belgian patients were transferred to and processed by Smart Analytics, a subcontractor of the American conglomerate 3M, whose offices are located in Russia. One wonders why such sensitive data about a large majority of our citizens are available in a country like Russia, far less scrupulous than we are on data protection issues. Thus, we are told first of all that it is a problem of monopoly of a private company on essential hospital software – which I already find quite challenging – but in addition, that the contracts concluded between our hospitals and 3M would be transitory because a significant number of our medical data are ultimately at the mercy of the Russian authorities. What role does GDPR play in all this? Probably none. Today, 3M is only considered a subcontractor, which considerably limits its liability. This means that in case of failure, it is the responsibility of our hospitals that could be engaged. It is therefore understandable, given the stakes, that this case ended up on the office of the federations of the sector, which did not really want to start the discussion. As a result, Mr. Secretary of State, were you aware that our health data are being processed in Russia? If so, how long? What steps have been taken to ensure that contracts between our hospitals and 3M are concluded in accordance with the GDPR? Have you requested an audit of the Data Protection Authority on the various contracts concluded? If not, do you consider doing so? If not, why? Do you think, like some, that 3M is just a subcontractor and that its liability must therefore be limited? Given the de facto monopoly held by 3M and the exorbitant amounts mobilised by the Belgian State for its use, do you not consider, like the Director General of Santhea, that our country should develop its own classification software, like Germany for example? Finally, do you intend to follow the recommendation of the Court of Auditors, which calls for the purchase of a national license for the use of software, which would both reduce costs and limit the number of individual negotiations to a single national negotiation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u38	Mr President, the qualification of 3M as a controller or subcontractor requires an analysis of the facts. However, I do not have and cannot legally have such information, since the examination of this file falls solely within the competence of the Data Protection Authority, or even the courts and tribunals. However, I would like to re-emphasize the framework of my data protection expertise. Their cross-cutting nature requires clarity on both actors, institutions and processes. It is therefore not for me to monitor or judge the purpose of the use of the data, which falls within the competence of the functional ministers. In this context, I would like to remind you of the rules in force. The GDPR allows processing managers to use subcontractors who deal with personal data on behalf of the controller, provided they provide sufficient guarantees to meet the requirements of the GDPR. The contract with the subcontractor must therefore define the purpose and duration of the processing and its nature and purpose, while determining the persons authorised to process personal data in a confidential manner. The same applies when the controller uses the services of a subcontractor located in a country outside the European Union. In this case, it must ensure that this country offers a substantially equivalent level of data protection recognised by the European Commission. In the absence of a level of equivalent data protection recognised by the European Commission, the controller must enter into a contract with the subcontractor which offers the appropriate guarantees. For my part, I am well aware of the risks of cross-border flows outside the European Union in terms of compliance with data protection. Thus, the conditions for considering that a country offers a substantially equivalent level or that a contract offers appropriate guarantees have been substantially and recently tightened by the Court of Justice of the European Union. The development of technical tools within the European Union, but also the development of a classification software specific to Belgium, could potentially mitigate the risks. However, in the immediate future, I stress the importance of working, at European Union level, to strengthen the legal conditions for the authorisation of data flows to countries that offer a level of protection equivalent to that of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u39	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your reminder of the beacons, despite the limitation of your skills. For the rest, I will analyse your response further before returning to you in this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u40	Madam President, Secretary of State, my question concerns Oasis software. This programme, which has been in operation for more than 15 years, would allow for the centralisation of many personal data from different databases of public administrations in order to detect social fraud. According to my information, the creation of this software has never been the subject of any public debate. No law or royal decree has ever sanctioned the legality of its existence. This poses a legal problem since there is every reason to believe that such processing of personal data is in breach of the GDPR. But this also poses, and above all, a democratic problem since there is no way to control how the algorithms used work. This software would soon be replaced by a new program developed by Deloitte Consulting called "Big Data Analytics Platform". Mr. Secretary of State, what do you think about the use of personal data by Oasis software? Can you assure us that the algorithms used do not operate in a biased or discriminatory manner?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u41	Madam President, Madam Member, I would like once again to point out that, in general, the purpose of the treatment is not within my competence, but rather within the competence of the functional minister. The same applies to the Oasis (Anti-Fraud Organisation of Social Inspection Services) project. According to the information provided to me, the aim of this project is to enable the State to better combat social fraud at the level of employers. It aims to generate, on the basis of algorithms, signals that allow inspectors to better target their control. These algorithms are independent of the underlying business sectors. The use of Oasis does not give rise to automatic decisions as citizens' data are needed in the context of the objectives of this project. Their unique identification number is pseudonymized. The establishment of Oasis would be based on a specific legal framework, namely the organic laws of the various public social security institutions concerned and labour law legislation, specifically the Social Penal Code. During the implementation of the platform, whose software is partly open source, the social security institutions carried out a detailed risk analysis to take into account the various aspects of privacy protection. In this context, the Commission on the Protection of Privacy recommended the adoption of a specific legal basis in order to better legalise such transactions. To this end, the Act of 15 January 1990 of the Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale was amended in order to provide for a specific legal basis to enable the various social inspection services and the various services applying administrative fines in social matters to collect, combine and process all the data necessary for the implementation of the legislation on labour and social security law. For my part, this dossier again raises the question of a clear legal and democratic framework. Today, there is a need to shed light on these database platforms and to restore confidence with the citizen. This will inevitably involve, as I have already mentioned, a cadastre of databases and clear access for every citizen to his or her own data. This must, of course, be done in cooperation with this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic424x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, you are not the functional minister, but your answer takes into account the concerns I thought of. Beyond this access for the citizen, I think it is also necessary to advertise algorithms. We'll have to work in that direction.
