ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u1	Madam President, Madam Minister, the situation in Haiti continues to worsen and the country is on the brink of implosion. Today, the Haitian population is trembling under the blow of violence and abductions that affect all segments of society. On February 7, the term of office of President Jovenel Moïse ended according to the Haitian Constitution. Many experts in Haitian constitutional law, the Superior Council of the Judiciary (CSPJ), the Federation of Bars of Haiti (FBH) agree that its mandate has ended and yet, the latter persists to remain in power and continues to take decisions by decrees. In addition, by its presidential decree of 8 February 2021, Jovenel Moïse decided to make an area classified as a priority area in order to guarantee the country's food self-sufficiency, a free zone for agro-industrial exploitation. By this approach, Jovenel Moïse ignores the agreements made by the government with certain civil society organizations, including the Haitian feminist organization, SOFA (partner of the Belgian NGO Entraide et Fraternité) since this presidential decree marks the expropriation of SOFA from these lands and thus threatens the entire development program of the organization to fight against the feminization of poverty. The situation in Haiti is urgent. It requires a strong response from our country and international bodies. Minister, what is Belgium's position on this situation? How does Belgium intend to ensure the sustainability of the SOFA food sovereignty programme and other civil society organisations affected by the presidential decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u2	Mr Ben Achour, thank you for your question. As the Foreign Minister has already pointed out, Belgium is very concerned about the weakening of Haitian democratic institutions and the use of presidential decrees as a form of government. Belgium calls on all parties concerned to find a solution for the Haitian population. My administration was informed of the case of the Haitian NGO SOFA by Entraide and Fraternité on 10 February 2021. Subsequently, an online meeting was organized with my administration and our embassy in Havana, Entraide and Fraternity as well as members of their local SOFA partner. They discussed avenues for resolution such as the initiative of local civil society to unite in a collective to combat land grabbing and possible budgetary adjustments within the current DGD programme. On 4 March, the first press release of this collective was sent. Among the various organizations participating in this initiative, there are not only SOFA but also the Haitian Platform for Advocacy for Alternative Development (PAPDA), the Association Tèt Kole and the Karl Levêque Cultural Institute (ICKL). All are local Entraide and Fraternity partners financially supported by Belgium under the current five-year programme 2017-2021. Belgium is ready to continue to support the future actions of Belgian indirect actors in Haiti through the funding of the five-year programmes 2022-2026 that are being developed by civil society organisations. As in Brussels, the collaborator of our embassy in Havana responsible for Haiti will continue to follow the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u3	Minister, thank you for these answers. I stress the need to remain attentive to a situation that is worsening, with violence that is radicalizing. The scale of abductions and the targets of abductions are also widening in a very worrying way. There are suspicions of collusion between these violent armed groups and the president's entourage. In relation to this, it will obviously be necessary to exercise maximum firmness in order to help as much as possible to prevent the situation from slipping into something irreversible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u4	Minister, as we know, the health crisis only exacerbates all the inequalities that existed before it. As Arnaud Zacharie, Secretary General of the CNCD-11.11.11 recalls, in a recent article, this finding has been made for the whole of the major epidemics of the last two centuries, the difference being that the pandemic of covid-19, due to its geographical amplitude and duration, has far more serious consequences. Examples would be numerous, but one can mention the drastic decline in income in the informal sector, which employs a majority of workers in developing countries, or the acceleration of the automation of routine tasks, a process that has a greater impact on women and the least skilled. A reality that has also been confirmed in the recent United Nations report on financing for sustainable development, 2021, which includes a decade-long lag in the achievement of the sustainable development goals of the poorest States. Some of the figures advanced are instructive. In the world, 114 million jobs have already been lost and 120 million people have plunged into extreme poverty. This UN document calls for immediate action by governments and therefore addresses them with a series of requests, including the creation of new financing for developing countries and debt relief. Minister, have you read this report? How does the government intend to respond to these challenges? Are any steps taken in this regard within the European framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u5	I have indeed taken note of this report, which is the product of close cooperation between the United Nations and international financial institutions such as the World Bank or the International Monetary Fund. It also served as the basis for discussions on financing for development in the United Nations Economic and Social Council, in which I participated the week of 12 April. I share your concerns. Indeed, the unequal response to the pandemic has exacerbated existing inequalities. Both between and within countries. The fact that it is the poorest countries that are expected to suffer the most important consequences in the medium term is simply unacceptable. Just like the impact on young people, women, low-educated workers and the informal economy. If we do not want to put sustainable development goals out of reach, broad international solidarity is more necessary than ever. I intend to support three levels of action. First, access to the vaccine. Access to covid-19 tools must be accelerated for public health reasons, but also for economic reasons. According to the IMF, sub-Saharan Africa is expected to record the slowest regional economic growth in the world in 2021 due to a lack of vaccine supplies and a delay in vaccination campaigns. Secondly, the promotion of a fair and inclusive global financial system. Developing economies have struggled to obtain sufficient financial resources to meet the immediate needs of the crisis, and even more so to recover from it. I would like to congratulate the measures announced by the International Monetary and Financial Committee of the World Bank, the Development Committee of the World Bank Group and the G20 to deal with debt crises so that developing countries can fight covid-19. However, I believe that more needs to be done, particularly in relation to the role and involvement of private sector creditors and to ensure that these actions lead to relevant and sustainable investments. Thirdly, and finally, on the strengthening of multilateral and European cooperation, a comprehensive response to satisfactory covid-19 both on the health front and on the socio-economic front required close and intensive cooperation with our multilateral partners. In this context, we support coordinated EU and Member State initiatives across Team Europe. Furthermore, our financial contributions to the efforts of the European institutions to the United Nations funds and programmes and to development banks are more relevant and indispensable in this context than ever before. Topics such as the debt of countries, but also the situation of the men and women to whom you refer, are entirely part of the agenda for my dialogue with the European and international institutions. The Belgian cooperation budget supports international cooperation initiatives such as VOCAX or the financing of debt relief by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). At the spring meetings of the World Bank and IMF, I pleaded with my Finance colleague for additional resources for the most vulnerable countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u6	I thank the minister for being reassuring about her and the government's willingness to increase the aid and resources available. These resources have increased. They are expected to increase a little more and a little faster, because beyond seeing targets that would not be achieved, there is also the risk that investments made over several years will be wiped out. Things must also be seen from this point of view. It is not possible, because of lack of budgetary ambition and lack of resources, to deliberately cancel the effects of policies that have been carried out for years. There is a twofold objective which must be taken into account: sustainable development and the maintenance of a level of aid and even of amplification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u7	Mrs de Laveleye, the national negotiations on the contributions of the various authorities are part of the broader negotiations on the allocation of efforts to achieve the climate objectives in the period 2021-2030. Ours, which take place in the context of raising European ambition, are not yet known. They will result from the revision of the various legislations concerned, including the European Regulation "Effort Sharing" for which the European Commission's proposals are expected by mid-2021. On the margins of the National Climate Commission, informal discussions are under way on the approach to be followed, with a view to reaching a political agreement with COP26 in Glasgow next November. A state of play should be presented by the Walloon Presidency of this Commission at its next meeting, to be held in May. As far as I am concerned, I agree with you that we must reach a political agreement before the COP. As such, I hope to be able to count on the Regions to follow us in this ambition. Pending an agreement on climate finance, it is up to each entity to determine its contribution. This theme leads me to the second part of my answer. In 2021, the federal government will contribute EUR 100 million to international climate financing, much of which will be spent by the member countries of the International Climate Fund. This implies a significant increase over the annual amount of EUR 70 million under the previous legislatures. I would like to illustrate this figure with some concrete examples. We will contribute €20 million to the Green Climate Fund and €15 million to the Least Developed Countries Fund. In addition to these contributions, the Global Environment Facility is contributing €15 million. In addition to this funding, I am working with Minister Khattabi on proposals to dedicate an interdepartmental budget of EUR 12 million per year for the next four years, thus complementing the resources from the Development Cooperation budget. This budget will support the climate policies of our southern partners and increase the resilience of vulnerable communities to the impact of climate change. We are adding EUR 10 million from Development Cooperation for this year for specific climate action programmes of our multilateral partners. I also instructed Enabel to develop a thematic portfolio on desertification in the Sahel, with a budget of 50 million from 2022 to 2026. Finally, we continue with the integration of climate action into our government cooperation. In Palestine, for example, two strands of the new programmes will be renewable energy and recycling. I am determined, despite a difficult fiscal environment, that the federal government's climate funding will follow a growing path. In line with Belgium's commitments at the international level, it is a matter of increasing in the coming years both our international climate finance and the total development cooperation budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u8	Minister, thank you for this very structured response. As there were many elements, I couldn't rate everything. As I understand it, there is already an amount of $100 million for the federal envelope for Climate funding. As far as burden sharing is concerned, although I understand correctly, the distribution between the federal and the regions is not yet very clear. Indeed, 100 million euros is significantly more and so it is excellent news. Now, the observers who watch our Ranking among the richest countries in the world are asking us to go up to 500 million euros. To the impossible no one is held, but I think it is still necessary to keep in mind that 100 million is really better than 50, 60 or 70 million euros as in the past. We have to keep moving forward. At the same time, it must also be ensured that this is additional to the amounts of development cooperation. The missions that are yours and ours are important and the Climate Fund should not go snack on this. However, under the previous legislation, almost 99% of the Climate Fund depended on development cooperation. That can no longer be accepted. You have to do everything, with your government colleagues - it's not your only responsibility - to really find the additional means. I mean that you put climate as a priority in the various instruments that are ours and that this is a priority in the partner countries. It's obviously an excellent thing. I thank you for this information which I will certainly analyse with rested head. We will see how, by COP26, we can really achieve a clear and consistent figure with the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u9	Madam Chair, Madame de Laveleye, the primary objective of my policy is to enable people to become self-reliant and resilient. As you point out, I have defined several accents to incorporate and highlight in our policy. I am thinking in particular of food security, which is essential for achieving the objectives in terms of sustainable development. To this end, I plan to adapt the Agriculture and Food Security strategic note by maintaining the major political axes, namely sustainable and inclusive economic growth, and a human rights-based approach, but integrating a particular focus on small-scale agriculture, the transition to sustainable food systems and the agro-ecological approach. This process is currently under way, with the first step being the preparation of a sector profile by my administration. The aim of this fact sheet is to highlight Belgian experience in this field, new international challenges and opportunities, but also to define points of action and attention for the future. The discussion is the subject of a process of consultation between DGD services, the Coalition Against Hunger and Enabel. The action and focus points specifically focus on the transition to sustainable food systems, access to healthy food, the importance of investments in research and innovation, agro-ecological production methods and building resilience. These elements will provide a basis for the adaptation of the strategic note which will take place in a second phase, following the validation of the sector profile, and in consultation with actors such as Enabel and the Coalition Against Hunger.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u10	Madam Minister, it is interesting to see that you are starting from a sector sheet to be updated according to your priorities, which were indeed very clear in your policy brief. There was a real sense of paradigm shift in the agricultural approach to the previous government's intentions. We know that reviewing a strategic note is a rather cumbersome process for the administration and for the stakeholders involved. But as partners in this coalition, and as ecologists, we believe that these strategic notes have a really important political role. We know that NGOs are going to hand over their new programmes in the coming months and that Enabel is developing new strategies. There is nothing to do: it is really important that these documents reflect your policy, which, in our view, is quite in the right direction, with the emphasis on agroecology. Agriculture is at the heart of the issue of human rights, climate justice and environmental justice. We need to give her the visibility she deserves. I am pleased to hear that the goal is to review the strategy. You have not yet given a date or deadline. We will return to that in good time. I know you will be in close contact with the actors, including the Coalition Against Hunger. I have no doubt that this will succeed. We will follow this closely with Parliament's working group on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u11	Madam Minister, I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u12	Thank you for your question. The humanitarian situation in Saint Vincent is indeed worrying. Although Saint Vincent and the Grenadines do not belong to the priority areas for humanitarian policy, Belgium indirectly supports the humanitarian response on the ground. This can be done, as I aim to make a large part of our humanitarian resources available to the international humanitarian system in a flexible way. Belgium therefore indirectly supports the response to the crisis in Saint Vincent, through financial contributions to organisations such as the International Red Cross Committee or the World Food Programme, or through global humanitarian funds. In this way, aid to the most urgent humanitarian needs in the world can be provided quickly and on a principled basis and humanitarian actors should not wait until donors release specific funding. To give you an example, I recently renewed our multi-annual agreement with the World Food Programme, with a total amount of EUR 15 million for the period from 2021 to 2024. Over the next two years, we will also provide a total of EUR 10 million for flexible funds from the World Food Programme. Given the impact on the agricultural activities to which you referred, the World Food Programme is a very important organisation for the people of Saint Vincent. The organisation is currently supporting the population in providing food and the necessary means to survive, but the FAO and the International Federation of the Red Cross are also on the ground. They provide the people with the necessary help. I recently renewed our contribution to these agencies' global humanitarian funds for the next two years, for EUR 10 million and EUR 5 million respectively. It is therefore also thanks to our contribution that the major humanitarian actors are able to take immediate action and provide assistance to the victims as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u13	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. The situation is very poignant. Such an emergency is always inconvenient, especially given the global covid pandemic and the new threat of eruptions of the volcano. I understood that the UN would free up its budget from the emergency fund. A UN official has been on the scene and came to the conclusion that 15,000 inhabitants need immediate help. I hope that the budget will be sufficient to cover all costs, because it is not only about restoring and cleaning up houses, infrastructure and roads, but also about the economic and environmental impact and the impact and damage to agriculture. It is good to hear that there is indirect support, although I dare hope that there may still be direct aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u14	Madam Minister, shortly, on 22 May and 31 July 2021, elections will be held for the first time in 15 years in the Palestinian territories: Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem. That was agreed by Palestinian policy makers a few months ago. The UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, and the Special Envoy for the Middle East welcomed that decision and expressed their support. The Palestinian Authority subsequently requested support from the European Union in the organisation and monitoring of the elections. The electoral legislation was amended, making at least one in four elected women, now one in five. On 4 April, 36 lists of candidates were approved by the Palestinian Election Committee. The mood for elections in the population appears to be particularly strong, because as many as 93 percent of the voters have already registered. However, it is mainly the young people who are apathetic before the elections, because the belief that politics will solve the hopeless situation in the areas is completely gone. Moreover, the organisation of elections in Palestine is not without risk and is an additional challenge in times of a global pandemic. On 9 April, the Middle East Platform of 11.11.11. also distributed a briefing paper with various recommendations for policy makers. Among other things, it called on the UN to ensure the electoral participation of Palestinian refugees and to encourage the Palestinian Authority to increase the representation of young people and to work towards equal representation of women on the electoral lists. Palestine is one of the partner countries in Belgian development cooperation. What role does Belgium play in the run-up to the elections in the Palestinian territories? Do you support the recommendations of the Middle East Platform? What specific actions will Belgian development cooperation take?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u15	Minister, this has just been recalled. On 9 February, in Cairo, Fatah and Hamas agreed on a plan to lead to parliamentary and presidential elections in Palestine, scheduled for 22 May and 31 July, respectively. They would follow the renewal of the Palestinian National Council in August. The process thus established will be a first since 2006. However, the road is still long and fraught with difficulties, since, as I have already mentioned with your colleague in charge of foreign affairs, the question of the organization of the elections in East Jerusalem in particular has my full attention. Several Palestinian officials claimed that without East Jerusalem, these elections would not be held because they would be meaningless and symbolically problematic. Fatah, in particular, reiterated this position last Monday, 12 April. However, contrary to what some might have feared when the agreement was announced, the demand is there. According to the latest figures from the Central Election Commission, the registration rate is 93 per cent. This means that 2.3 million of the 2.8 million Palestinian citizens who can vote have registered, even though a majority of them are too young to have ever voted. So it will be a first for many of them. The support for this great democratic exercise that I think Palestinian institutions are in great need today is, you will understand, fundamental. That is why I would like to ask you, Madam Minister, whether cooperation intends to provide specific funds in this context. We also know that the success of the operation will depend to a large extent on the evolution of the epidemic. In this regard, would Belgium advocate the inclusion of Palestinians from the West Bank and Gaza in Israel's vaccination strategy, whose effectiveness is regularly praised in the media? The inclusion of Palestinians in this campaign, which is currently totally excluded from it, would simply be in line with those obligations of the occupying Power.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium welcomes the organisation of legislative and presidential elections in Palestine. Together with my foreign minister, Minister Wilmès, I wish to contribute to encouraging democratic, transparent and inclusive elections, in accordance with international standards, throughout the occupied Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem. From development cooperation, I will make a particular effort to support the inclusiveness of the electoral process. It is 15 years since the last elections took place in Palestine. For a whole generation of Palestinian young people, this is the first time they have been able to participate. It is important that these young people have confidence in the elections and in the institutions that will result from them. It is, of course, essential to ensure the transparency and credibility of the electoral process itself, but it is also important to mobilise young people and other target groups who are less involved, such as women, through targeted activities and to provide them with the necessary knowledge of the elections. It is these kinds of activities that I wish to support. My services are currently in consultation with UNDP, the United Nations Development Programme. That organisation has set up a broad project to support inclusive elections in Palestine. As the elections are unfortunately taking place in a context where civil society is under pressure, I will also seek to strengthen local NGOs through our contribution to this UNDP project. This specific support will be a useful complement to the new multiannual programme under development between Belgium and Palestine. In addition, a new multi-annual agreement for the period 2021-2023 is being prepared with UNRWA. That organisation provides specific logistical support for the elections to enable Palestinian refugees to participate, one of the recommendations of the Middle East Platform you mentioned. With regard to advocacy for the inclusion of Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza in Israel's vaccination strategy, Belgium supports the European Union in its call for increased coordination between the Israeli and Palestinian authorities in order to effectively stem the pandemic, including through fair and effective distribution of vaccines.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u17	It is very important that young people in the Palestinian territories should have a future perspective. That is why colleagues from the PS have also written a resolution on the lifting of the blockade on the Palestinian territories. Our group supports that resolution. The lack of prospects leads to very strong frustration among young people, who make up the majority of the population in these areas. That also explains why they believe less in today's political processes. It is indeed very important that we also focus on this in the context of Belgian development cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u18	Thank you, minister, for these answers. In reply, I would like to remind those who have escaped that those who organized the blockade of Gaza have taken advantage of the outcome of the 2006 elections, which were the last to be held there, to deploy the blockade. With the prospect of elections, which we hope will be as free, fair and transparent as possible, we also see the prospect of lifting this blockade. That is why we have tabled a resolution to lift this blockade, which will normally be taken into consideration at the plenary meeting on Thursday. We will have all the arguments necessary to push in that direction. I would also like to take this opportunity to recall the recommendations made by the CNCD to the European Union and Belgium on this subject concerning the transparency of elections, the involvement of young people, the involvement of women, the involvement of refugees and political prisoners, the holding of elections in East Jerusalem, etc. In my view, a whole series of recommendations should feed into the work we will do in organizing this very important election for the future of the Palestinian national movement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u19	Madam Minister, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u20	As you know, I am very concerned about the humanitarian situation in the Tigray region of Ethiopia. My services are following the situation very closely. Although humanitarian access to certain regions has improved, it remains a focus, especially for remote and rural villages. I have therefore repeatedly called for unrestricted humanitarian access throughout the region. That concern was also expressed to the Ethiopian Ambassador at a meeting with my diplomatic adviser. I have also said that our country will continue to place the importance of an independent investigation and unlimited humanitarian access on the table during discussions at European level. Minister Wilmès reiterated this last Monday at the informal Council of European Foreign Ministers. Although Ethiopia is not one of the priority geographical areas of Belgian humanitarian aid, Belgium indirectly supports the response to this humanitarian crisis. Our country is endeavouring to make much of its funding available to the international humanitarian system in a flexible manner. In this way, prompt and principled assistance can be provided to meet the most urgent humanitarian needs worldwide. Belgium therefore supports the response to this crisis through the financial support of various international organisations (OCHA, UNHCR, WFP, ICRC) and through its contribution to various flexible funds. In total, this is a contribution of €62 million for 2021. The resources made available by Belgium to the flexible funds can be deployed rapidly by humanitarian organisations on the basis of humanitarian needs. Several of those funds to which we contribute have already allocated funds to the humanitarian crisis in Tigray. For example, CERF already released $6 million for the situation in Ethiopia this year. The flexible humanitarian fund for the world food programme set aside nearly 17 million. Both funds have received new Belgian contributions of 17 million euros and 5 million euros respectively in recent months. In view of the many terrible reports from Tigray over the last few months and the need for protection of people on the ground, I decided to release additional resources specifically for that region. A €4 million humanitarian grant has just been granted to the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) for its operation in Ethiopia for protection and prevention actions with specific attention for women victims of violence. Through its access to remote areas and the presence of its operational teams on the ground, the ICRC is an actor able to respond adequately and rapidly to the needs of those affected by the conflict in coordination with the Ethiopian Red Cross. More specifically, the International Red Cross Committee will take note of the crimes that have taken place and raise this issue with the parties involved through confidential discussions. The International Red Cross will also focus on the reception of victims of violence, including sexual violence, and bad sacrifices will be referred to the appropriate agencies. It will also seek to reunite families who have lost each other in the conflict. The International Red Cross is therefore a crucial actor to remind authorities and groups of their responsibilities under international humanitarian law. This is extremely important in order to reduce the risk of further escalation and enable humanitarian access. We will also pay particular attention to this with this project. I will continue to monitor the situation in Ethiopia closely. The Belgian contribution to this crisis will be re-assessed in the light of the evolution of the situation and needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers. You're right to say you've received horrible messages. What's going on there is unbearable. You recall one of the foundations of our flexible humanitarian support, which allows us to go where it is most necessary, depending on the crises that people are facing. You also mention additional support for certain actors specifically linked to this region. He must be greeted and supported. Regardless of the means, access is made extremely complicated. My colleague Cogolati had asked Minister Wilmès about this. It is with her that you will meet the challenges on the spot. Ways will have to be found to facilitate access to humanitarian assistance. It is unbearable to say that aid is potentially available but that people do not have access to it. We fully support your efforts to identify the resources on the spot and to consult with Mrs Wilmès. I hope that this will lead to a well-being of the local population as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u22	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. There are indeed two elements, as Mrs de Laveleye has already mentioned. Firstly, resources can be provided, but if they do not get there, they do not make much sense. The international community must make explicit efforts to this end. There's got to be pressure. Secondly, there must be independent investigations into the crimes committed in the region. I hope that this research will be made possible. It is a good thing that we anticipate this with our own resources and that you pay explicit attention to the victims of sexual violence. That is indeed being recorded, because it is one of the major problems. If such violence can be carried out with impunity, it will continue to be done. We see that in Africa, but not only in Africa, sexual violence is increasingly being used as a weapon of war. If there are no penalties, they will continue to do so. In short, it is a good thing that you emphasise this. That is quite new, as far as I know, in development cooperation. You certainly have our support in continuing to do so and to allow further research to be carried out to counter the pandemic of sexual violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u23	"On 13 April, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) publishes annual official development assistance (ODA) figures. It is reported that international aid increased in 20220, from 0.30% to 0.32% of the gross national income (GNI) of donor countries and that six countries met the United Nations target of allocating at least 0.7 per cent of their GNI to ODA (Denmark, Germany, Luxembourg, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u24	- What are the prospects for the 2021 balance sheet?"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u25	Madam President, we must also invest in international solidarity in difficult times. Just as no one is safe from the corona virus until we are all safe, we will not get out of the crisis if the economic recovery remains unevenly distributed. Official development aid is and remains a crucial lever to achieve this. With regard to the growth path to the 0.7 per cent GNI target, absolute ODA expenditure has hardly increased in the past decade. On the other hand, the needs have increased enormously. According to the United Nations, urgent acceleration of our efforts is needed to achieve the SDGs. If the current absolute level were to be maintained, if policy remained unchanged, we would expect to fall below 0.35% in the second half of the decade. This means that by 2030 ODA spending is expected to double and exceed €4 billion to reach 0.7% of GNI. Various avenues are being explored by my administration. If, contrary to what has happened in the last decade, spending is expected to grow at the same rate as GNI by 2030, an additional €850 million would have to be spent on development aid, bringing us to about 0.45% of GNI. The effort should therefore be greater and better prepared. An increase in the budget without a long-term approach benefits only figures and not necessarily quality cooperation. The increase in resources must also be linked to the political choices of the Belgian Government and cooperation through efforts in various areas such as assistance to the least developed countries, food security, social protection, women's and children's rights, etc. Such an increase in the budget must also be achieved through the various channels of governmental, non-governmental and multilateral cooperation as well as humanitarian assistance. At the operational level, the objective must be a combination of well-researched instruments that take into account long-term implementation capacity. In other words, not all instruments can be mobilised in a linear way and sequencing will be necessary. In budgetary terms, it will therefore be necessary, in the first years, to create an increased possibility of commitment and to provide for liquidation appropriations in the multiannual budgets of the following years. This is a realistic approach that is certainly in the capacity of my administration, which, over the last five years, has always been able to spend at least 98 % of the allocated cooperation budget effectively. This issue will be addressed for the first time in budgetary discussions for the year 2022. I therefore intend to make every effort to secure next year a budget for development cooperation that is part of a growth path to reach 0.7%. As regards your question about the share of the costs of receiving refugees in the ODA, it is true that certain costs associated with the reception of recognised refugees and asylum seekers may be included as development aid during the first 12 months of their stay. This is, of course, an essential form of solidarity. However, legitimate questions can be asked as to its development relevance. However, it is not a good idea for Belgium to unilaterally decide not to include this expenditure in the figures communicated to the OECD without this being a general rule for all Member States of the DAC. That would compromise comparability. Moreover, this comparability is one of the basic principles of the ODA as a measure allowing donors, including Belgium, to be held accountable. Belgium therefore calls for a general DAC rule based on harmonised statistical rules so that donors' efforts remain comparable. However, such a review is unlikely in the short term given that this decision requires consensus and that this expenditure for a number of donors is a substantial part of official development assistance. However, Belgium will continue to work for this, together with other like-minded countries. The voice of international civil society can also play an important role in this. You ask the question what our country's vision is with regard to the ODA accountability of the various expenditures. The basic principle of the ODA is that it should be an effort by the donor to improve the well-being and prosperity of the population in the partner countries. This basic principle was then developed in a comprehensive set of rules for all possible aid modalities, from contributions to multilateral organisations to BIO's investment. On the one hand, these rules leave the necessary freedom to donors. On the other hand, they also provide the necessary tools to hold donors accountable if necessary. I am convinced that the principles contained in the coalition agreement are best achieved by ensuring that the existing definitions and rules are applied in practice. Together with the other like-minded donors, Belgium strongly advocates maintaining the integrity of the ODA definition. We must avoid unfairly blowing up the figures, which would not improve the credibility of donors. With regard to the capacity of the administration, the staff of the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation (DGD) falls within the competence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ms Wilmès. Human resources policy is therefore being pursued for the entire FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, of which the DGD is only a component. Having said that, I advocate a strong and effective administration to implement my policy. Specifically, in the period 2020-2021 so far, 7 employees have been recruited for the DGD. At present, it is not clear how many employees will be able to be recruited in 2021-2022. There is also the possibility to increase the capacity of the DGD through internal mobility, for example through internal changes. The DGD can also acquire expertise from other FPS in the short term, through the Talent Exchange programme. In this way, the staff of the DGD has stabilised over the past few years to about 120 employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u26	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You are right to recall that the quantity is not enough. The quality of our development cooperation is essential. You work there every day. But the quantity is also important. You yourself have reminded us that we are facing an unprecedented crisis that will weigh heavily on the shoulders of the most fragile countries on our planet. We must humbly welcome the fact that the share of gross national income (GNI) has increased, because our GNI has collapsed somewhat. So the numbers aren't as good as you might think. You confirm that we will be part of a path of growth in the years to come, which I had no doubt about. But we must take into account the fact that we have increased by 2.8 per cent in gross figures in 2020 and that we must move forward. As one of the richest countries in the world, we must live up to our vision of solidarity. I know that is your intention and we encourage you to do so. We will return to you later in the year, when we have in our possession detailed analyses of these amounts to see what levers you will still focus on. Be aware that you have our full support to push your colleagues, if possible, a little further behind the back so that solidarity becomes a real and ambitious objective in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u27	Madam President, quantity has been a fact for a long time. Of course, the time when we are going up is a good thing. If we stay on that line of 0,7 %, it is good. We have never asked for this to be done during the present legislature by means of a resolution. However, it would be positive that there is a certain growth path. I do not think that governments will provide the solution to the development of partner countries. Other actors will also have to play. That is true, but that does not alter the fact that governments must set an example by which they can encourage other actors. That's always been the plea I made myself. How would we like other actors to be involved when we do not set a good example ourselves? Madam Secretary, that is why you have our full support. I'm trying to push my party in the right direction. We have also included in the government agreement that the budget should continue to increase. I'm sure you can signal it if there are any wheels on that plane. You can count on my support. The other issues, such as the ODA-accountable expenses, can only be raised. At some point, it might change. It is therefore important that, when you attend a meeting of the OECD, you continue to raise the issue so that hopefully there will be a group that will decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u28	Madam Secretary of State, I refer to the written version for these and all my subsequent questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u29	Mrs. Depoorter is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u30	Mrs Van Hoof, the prepared answer covers both your question and Mrs Depoorter's question. You're better off getting too much information than you're not. Pending the entry into force of a fully competent government in Congo, the programming cycle for a successor to the current transitional programme has not yet been launched. Now that the new government in the Democratic Republic of Congo has been announced last week, hopefully we will also be able to start preparations for a new cooperation programme soon. I hope to find a partner in the new Congolese Government for the elaboration of an ambitious cooperation programme. This should, in particular, produce concrete development results for the Congolese people. After all, the needs on the ground remain immense. For example, according to a recent UN report, it is estimated that 27,3 million inhabitants of the Democratic Republic of Congo are still facing acute food insecurity. The programming of the new portfolio and government cooperation shall be carried out in accordance with the relevant legal provisions and the management contract between the Belgian State and ENABEL, the Belgian Development Agency. I will first ask our embassy in Kinshasa to draw up a draft letter of instruction, after advice from ENABEL, which should take account of my policy orientations and the priorities of the partner country. The common strategic framework 2022-2026 of non-governmental actors will also be taken into account to ensure complementarity and coherence. After I have approved that letter of instruction, ENABEL will draw up a country strategy in consultation with the Belgian embassy and the authorities of the partner country. At this stage, a broad consultation process will take place involving the various local, Belgian and European actors. Once I have adopted the country strategy, ENABEL will develop the country portfolio in a third phase. This is done again in consultation with the embassy and after consulting the partner country. As a final step, after my approval of the portfolio, a special agreement is signed between Belgium and the partner country. Only then can the implementation of the country portfolio start. As indicated in my policy paper, through that process I will pay particular attention to having a genuine dialogue with the partner country, analysing the results achieved and the lessons learned, and bringing together all relevant actors that can contribute to a supported and sustainable programme. Of course, I am always available to answer the committee's questions about the process. As programming has not yet started, there have been no talks with the Congolese authorities on this issue and the priorities of the future portfolio have not yet been defined. However, I asked my administration to analyse the results of the previous projects of government cooperation. After all, it is important to draw lessons and find ways for the future to achieve the greatest possible impact in a particularly difficult context. The analysis of the results, together with the content of the government programme of the new Congolese Government, will provide important elements for the consultation on the new portfolio. A new portfolio of government cooperation is therefore accompanied by expectations. It is clear to me that the Congolese authorities must make a clear commitment to the development of the country and to the people. The necessary flexibility will be introduced in the design of a new portfolio; the programme must be able to be adapted if the context changes. At the same time, of course, we are not restricting ourselves to governmental cooperation. The preparation of a new five-year programme for non-governmental cooperation actors for the period 2022-2026 is also under way. The creation of a new portfolio should take into account the activities of the other Belgian actors working in the field in order to seek complementarity and synergy as far as possible. The same applies to the activities of defence in the framework of military cooperation. I would like to stress that, above all, it is my wish to use the resources of the budget for international solidarity as a priority for the immediate needs of the Congolese people in social sectors. The activities of the Special Committee on the colonial past will be closely monitored, but I cannot yet anticipate the recommendations it will make.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u31	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. You keep your promise to regard the Great Lakes region as a priority, particularly Congo. I welcome the fact that the process will start this year. Of course, the partner country determines, in consultation with Belgium, what the priorities will be. But the current President, with whom I was still in contact when he was in Belgium, once again in his declaration of government put the fight against corruption and the creation of basic education before everyone at the forefront. It would be nice if Belgium were to respond. In addition, there is still the problem of East Congo with a pandemic of sexual violence, rebel groups, recently the ambassador was sadly murdered. So I think there is a lot of work to be done there. Eastern Congo deserves our continued attention with investments in the security departments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u32	Madam President, Ms Van Hoof, no additional contribution is currently foreseen for the purchase of vaccines for 2021. Belgium is already involved in several ways through the European Union. For example, Belgium co-finances the Commission's multiannual budget, including the Instrument for Neighbourhood Policy, Development and International Cooperation (NDICI), on the basis of its contribution to the EU budget. EU funding from the global COVAX mechanism provides support through international partners such as UNICEF, WHO and Gavi. The Commission is also currently rolling out four health initiatives under the heading of Team Europe Initiatives. Belgium is one of the active participants. The aim of the initiatives is to support partner countries on the impact of COOVID-19 on sanitation. The Belgian programmes carried out by Enabel in the health sector in our partner countries also contribute to strengthening that capacity. One of the Team Europe Initiatives currently under investigation, which Belgium is actively committed to, aims to explore the possibilities of making Africa self-reliant through local production, in other words, the production of vaccines by Africa for Africa. No formal questions have yet been raised regarding technical assistance in the vaccination campaign in partner countries. Vaccination campaigns are not an unknown technical issue for many partner countries, and partner countries also rely on international organisations such as Gavi, Unicef and the World Health Organisation for the purchase and supply of vaccines and the support of their health ministries in the roll-out of mass vaccination campaigns. The roll-out of vaccination campaigns in partner countries is not only a question of solving technical problems, but also the fight against vaccination doubt among some of the population, which is not unknown to us either. Because some Western countries have paused or even stopped the roll-out of the vaccine out of extreme caution, the vaccine has only increased in the population of the partner countries. COVAX also depends to a large extent on the AstraZeneca vaccine. Its production is now also delayed by an export ban in India on the production of the Indian Serum Institute. To date, 72 countries have received a total of 35 million doses out of a total of 112 million doses ordered by these countries. In addition to the COVAX vaccines received by low and middle income countries, countries may also purchase additional doses from COVAX through the financing of multilateral development banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u33	Madam Secretary, we must follow it closely. A total of 35 million doses for a total of 1.5 billion people in Africa is still very limited. We will be working on this rhythm for years to come. The question is indeed whether these countries have the technical means to store the vaccines. We must also pay attention to this in the near future in order to ensure that there are opportunities to give vaccines.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u34	Madam Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u35	Mrs Van Hoof, I fully agree with you that Rwanda must continue its efforts to ensure respect for human rights. However, the current cooperation programme of Belgian government cooperation with Rwanda focuses on three other sectors, namely health, agriculture and urbanisation. These activities have a direct impact on the improvement of the living conditions of the local population. The programme is already in operation and all available resources have been distributed among the different sectors. There are therefore no more funds available to be used for additional activities. The sectors were chosen on the basis of the division of labour between different donors. European development cooperation, to which Belgium, of course, also contributes, focuses on the good governance, civil society and human rights sectors in Rwanda. The emphasis is on strengthening accountability and democratic governance, the development of a lively civil society and respect for human rights. As there is no reserve available for other activities under the current programme of government cooperation, a reorientation of current resources towards civil society and NGOs is not considered. However, the new five-year programmes of non-governmental actors are in full preparation. Rwanda is and remains an important partner country for non-governmental cooperation. My administration is currently analysing the Common Strategic Framework for the period 2022-2026, which also includes an important chapter on human rights and good governance. The human rights approach is an important criterion in my administration's assessment of CSFs. We also pay particular attention to human rights issues through the budget line for building society. This year, we are exploring three avenues of reflection, namely the support of civil society in some of our partner countries, of international initiatives setting up protection mechanisms for human rights defenders and of the Universal Periodic Review. A geographical focus for this is further defined.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u36	Madam Secretary, Rwanda was a donor darling for a long time because it scored economically well and made progress on sustainability. In addition, attention was also paid to gender issues. However, another element in my question was freedom of expression and the functioning of justice. I don't need to remind you of Paul Rusesabagina's case. Despite the investments in this area, including by the Netherlands, there is no progress there. In the periodic review reference was made to the extrajudicial killings and the poor treatment of prisoners. Making aid conditional doesn't help, it doesn't do anything to threaten Rwanda with the cessation of donations. What does help, however, is playing on the image, because it is very sensitive. We must dare to do that, even in a new programme. In doing so, we must point out that the country is performing well in certain areas but that we want to focus more on other areas. How can a man feel good when he's not free? One can feel bad because of intimidation and do not dare to speak. Freedom of speech, media freedom, civil space for NGOs and justice could be important future cooperation agendas, on which we should dare to use them. With just a ringing finger, we won't get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u37	Cuba is well known for its high-quality health care, but also for the international economic blockade of the US against the country that was introduced in 1962. Under the Trump administration, sanctions against the country have been tightened and the country has also fallen into the trap of the United States terrorist list. Finding aspirin and bread on the island is even impossible and tourism has also stopped. The blockade is also condemned annually by the United Nations General Assembly, 24 times in the meantime. This is likely to be repeated at the next General Assembly of 23 June 2021. Since 2016, there has also been a bilateral EU partnership that entered into force in 2019. As a result, the blockade was condemned by the then EU High Representative for Foreign Policy, Ms Mogherini. Today there are still Belgian banks that refuse to transfer money to Cuban accounts, possibly for fear of heavy fines from US agencies. A number of civil society organisations in our country have projects running in Cuba. For example, FOS is working on projects linked to HPV control. VLIR-UOS provides financial support for lung cancer research. What contribution does Belgian development cooperation make, directly or indirectly, bilaterally or multilaterally, to Cuban health and to the fight against COOVID-19? Are these efforts undermined by the blockade of the United States? Will you talk to Mrs Wilmès about this with her, for example, in the framework of the NATO summit, which will probably take place on 14 June 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u38	All over the world, this pandemic has struck very hard. However, Cuba is relatively successful in dealing with the health crisis, including through a comprehensive prevention policy and a well-developed basic health care system. In addition, the country is committed to developing its own vaccine and says it wants to make it available to other countries as well. Internationally, Cuba is also trying to play a role, including sending out medical shipments. Like most developing countries, the economic impact of the pandemic on Cuba is disproportionate. Tourism, which is a vital sector for the country, has virtually ceased to exist while export earnings fell by 55%. As you yourself say, the situation for the Cuban population is aggravated by the economic blockade of the country due to the United States. That is why Belgium, like the EU, supports the resolution that Cuba is submitting annually to the UN General Assembly to lift the blockade. In addition, our country consistently calls on the US authorities to stop the blockade which is affecting the population in particular. In the international and European context, Belgium therefore supports initiatives to improve relations with the country. Cuba is not a partner country of Belgian bilateral cooperation. Nevertheless, Belgian development cooperation makes an important indirect contribution to Cuban health and the fight against COOVID-19 in the country. Through the indirect actors, in particular our universities and NGOs, more than 17 million euros were invested in the period 2017-2021. Eight million euros were invested through the VLIR with which university cooperation is a leading player. Belgium is currently the country that also grants most grants to Cuban students and professors, almost 150 a year. Most are at doctoral or post-doctoral level, with many in medical faculties. Furthermore, there are specific healthcare programs implemented by various NGOs and institutional actors, such as FOS, that you mentioned earlier, Humanity & Inclusion, which is the former Handicap International, and the Institute of Tropical Medicine. Some of the resources provided were refocused to address the COOVID-19 crisis, for example on preventive sanitary devices, such as masks and protective suits. As you know, I consider policy coherence for development to be very important. I will therefore address my colleague, Mr Wilmès.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u39	Madam Minister, President Biden has already indicated that he wants to review relations with Cuba. A major difference with its predecessor is the tone with which the new US President speaks about Cuba. There is also talk that transfers of money to Cuba would be possible again, that travel restrictions on US citizens would be lifted and that diplomatic consultations would also be launched. There is therefore a certain opening to improve relations between the two countries. It would be good if this were to be raised from Belgium, so that a signal is also given that the new Cuba policy is being supported within the EU. That would be an idea. I look forward to your discussions with Minister Wilmès on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u40	Madam President, Mr Ben Achour, as you know, I asked BIO to get out of Feronia. The publication of the environmental and social action plan by the Congo Plantations and Oil Mills (PHC) was a requirement of DFI lenders. In the meantime, this plan has been published on the website of PHC. This plan covers a wide range of topics: housing, wages, health care, community development, etc. Lenders continue to monitor progress in the progressive implementation of the environmental and social action plan. According to BIO's latest update, of 82 actions, 32 have been completed or are on track to be completed, while PHC is late for 28 other actions. The loan contract has been drafted to ensure that the phasing out of the debt is conditional on 100% compliance with the environmental and social action plan. Lenders are therefore confident that this incentive will contribute to the improvement of the company's environmental and social practices. Several progress has already been made at this stage. An assessment of underground water quality by an independent expert is being carried out with the aim of developing a plan to clean up water. A housing inventory has been produced and the goal of building 100 new homes by 2020 has been achieved. A long-term housing plan is also being developed. Training for the use of agricultural chemicals is organised on the Yaligimba site and should also take place on the sites of Boteka and Lokutu in the very short term. At local community level, the recruitment of an internal expert and the development of community agriculture was successful and the development of an investment programme for the local community was carried out with the support of an NGO specialised in supporting economic development. Discussions are also underway to make the remuneration of management variable and to link it to ESG performance. I am currently working on a series of actions that need to be implemented to strengthen the BIO as a supporting actor for the development of the private sector. Since then, there have been various consultations, not only with the staff of the BIO but also with civil society organisations. This plan should be structured around three pillars: updating market orientations, improving the positioning of the BIO in the landscape of development cooperation actors, and strengthening ethics and transparency. Because transparency is a priority, I asked the BIO to develop a disclosure policy with my administration to better objectify the issue of information sharing. I hope that this note will already be submitted to the next board of directors of the BIO.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u41	Minister, I have taken note of your answers. I take note of this and will certainly continue to follow up on this issue, in which, indeed, a whole series of violence is worsening on the ground, in a worrying way again, despite the decisions that you have courageously taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament 5501650C by Mrs Depoorter will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u43	Minister, this April 7th, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) was announced by the United States. For the past 70 years, this United Nations agency has provided assistance to the 5.5 million Palestinian refugees scattered in the Middle East following the wars of 1948 and 1967. US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken said the aid will amount to $150 million. In addition to the measures taken at the same time in the area of economic and development assistance and in the area of peace programmes, the amount of 235 million has thus been released, which is a good illustration of the inflection taken by American diplomacy with regard to the Palestinian question, which had been seriously put in brackets, in a completely partial manner, by the previous administration. This administration, led by Donald Trump, had in fact stopped funding UNRWA in 2018. Unsurprisingly, the President of the Palestinian Authority welcomed the decision, where Israel's ambassador to the United States expressed his disappointment. Of course, this is good news, but it will not solve everything, and it must not make us lose sight of the fact that the organization's budgetary problems were already numerous before 2018, raising fears about the disappearance of its educational programmes, with UNRWA running more than 700 schools. However, its situation has deteriorated further as a result of the health crisis. Last June, she called for just over $93 million to be able to respond to the challenges posed by the pandemic. Let us also remember, in another register, the accusations of abuse of power and nepotism that had targeted the former management team and led to the freezing of an additional Belgian aid of 5.35 million euros for a few months in 2019. Minister, could you provide an update on the assistance provided to this organization since our renewed collaboration in December 2019? Is the example from the United States likely to inspire an increase in support from Belgian Cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u44	Mr. Ben Achour, I welcome the decision of the United States to resume its funding of UNRWA. This agency is a long-standing partner of Belgian humanitarian aid. Despite the pandemic, she had done very important work in a difficult context to provide Palestinian children with access to education and health care. A freeze on Belgian financing was in fact decided in 2019; but after an audit excluding allegations of fraud, this funding was reinstated in the same year. Belgium supported UNRWA for EUR 11.6 million in 2019 and EUR 11.25 million in 2020. As regards the current financial support, a new multi-annual agreement 2022-2023 has recently been concluded. As part of my goal of achieving 60 per cent flexible funding for humanitarian aid, I have increased UNRWA's general funds from €6.25 million to €7 million per year. To this flexible support will be added during the year specific funding for an amount still to be defined.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u45	Madam Minister, thank you. I will simply stress, as you have also done, the importance and crucial role that this organization plays in stabilizing a situation that is becoming increasingly critical. I can only encourage the Government to maintain or even expand its support for UNRWA and any other organization that will contribute in one way or another to peace in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u46	Madam Minister, biofuels have been part of our National Energy and Climate Plan for a long time, but are increasingly under attack. The previous government looked away from the problem, because the contribution of biofuels was good for the figures. However, it became increasingly clear that they are not good for the environment, for human rights or for the development of areas where biofuels are produced. Several civil society organisations have communicated on this issue in an open position. They say that the study made by the federal government in this area is not complete. We should look at all aspects of these biofuels. I must tell you, Minister, that our group supports that position. Biofuels may help to achieve the climate objectives, but ultimately we are deceiving ourselves. It's kind of like cheating on patient. That's cheating on himself. In the end, biofuels are not good for the planet. Let me give you one figure. Last year, in our country, we put 231 million litres of palm oil in the tanks of our diesel cars and our trucks. This means that Belgium belongs to the eight countries which account for 80% of the world's imported deforestation. On that figure one cannot be proud. Madam Secretary of State, first of all, during the Easter break, your colleague Mr Khattabi communicated that she wants to get rid of the obligation to mix biofuels. How do you look at that? Secondly, perhaps even more importantly, imports naturally affect the countries of origin, especially if we reverse our behaviour. I can imagine that your policy will go against deforestation there, and will respond to the need for small-scale agriculture.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u47	Mr Verduyckt, first of all, food does not belong in our cars. I therefore support the decision of my colleague, Minister Khattabi, to ban palm oil and soya from the biofuels mix. The effect of the ban on palm oil and soya in our country on fuel prices is negligible. Studies show that mixing both raw materials does not lead to a reduction in CO2 emissions, on the contrary. The exploitation of these raw materials is also accompanied by severe deforestation. What is most important to me is how it goes against the fundamental rights of the local population. First generation biofuels were at the origin of the global food price crisis in 2008. Several reports warn of the impact on the right of decent wages, on property rights and on women's rights. The extraction of biofuels goes against sustainable development, just what we want with development cooperation. We must therefore continue the debate on first generation biofuels. Human rights aspects must be better included in the evaluation of our own biofuels policy in the future. My cabinet is in contact with the cabinets of my colleagues, Minister Khattabi and Minister Van der Straeten. Then I come to your second question. Deforestation and food security will be given the necessary attention in my policy in the coming years. Sometimes nature and agriculture compete with each other. We are therefore committed to a policy that meets both priorities. The various actors in Belgian development cooperation already have a lot of experience in this field. As an illustration, Enabel supports initiatives on reforestation and agroforestry or forest farming in Rwanda. One combines planting trees with growing other crops. This also protects the soil. This leads, among other things, to higher production for farmers and greater resilience to the effects of climate change. I'm also starting new initiatives. Enabel is currently working with our partners in Burkina Faso, Senegal, Niger and Mali on a thematic portfolio on climate in the Sahel, where the promotion of sustainable agricultural systems is important. We are talking about EUR 50 million for a period of 5 years. We will also continue to use the additional climate finance funds to support climate-smart and sustainable farming practices for family farming. On the other hand, we are examining possible support for the protection of the forests of the Congo Basin. Finally, as you pointed out, policy coherence for development is very important in the fight against deforestation through our food system. My services and myself are therefore working closely with Mr Khattabi, for example in the development of the federal strategy Beyond Food.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u48	Madam Minister, I particularly welcome your clear message on biofuels. There's been some other talk in this house about biofuels. Much has actually been said about the problem, even when it was already known that there was a problem with it. You say that deforestation is an important priority in your policy. I hope so, because the figures are dramatic, in countries like Congo and Brazil. Fortunately, there are other tendencies. Indonesia is doing better in that respect. So there's another way. It will have to be different, because we really need a change of behavior. We're running out of time on our planet. The UN Secretary-General, Mr António Guterres, said two days ago that we are on the edge of the abyss, and he is not the first. I am therefore surprised when I see in this dossier a letter from your Flemish colleague and city colleague, Mrs Demir, who complains that we will not achieve our objectives without biofuels. I am therefore concerned because it proves that even a climate minister does not properly assess the seriousness of the situation. That is why I welcome the fact that the federal government is taking responsibility for this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u49	Madam President, Minister, we were just discussing access to vaccines for developing countries. A number of Members have already done so. However, I would have liked to have questioned you about the WTO negotiations, which took place on 11 March 2021. A year after the corona pandemic came to full effect, these negotiations on the lifting of vaccine patents unfortunately turned out to be a sizzle, which is a blow to the face of the 75% of humanity in the global south, who continue to face a poignant lack of vaccines. I would like to add a very striking statement from the chairman or head of the World Health Organization, quote: 'While 39 million doses have already been administered in at least 49 well-off countries, there are only 25 in one poor country'. It's not 25 million or 25,000, it's just 25. Welcoming countries, which account for 16% of the world's population, occupy 60% of the promised doses of covid vaccines. Nine out of ten inhabitants in low-income areas will therefore not have access to a vaccine by 2021. The developed countries, which let the big pharma sink the original dream of a truly global vaccination strategy, continue to prevent less developed countries from taking control of themselves and producing vaccines. Recently, the Corporate Europe Observatory revealed that pharmaceutical multinationals are actively lobbying against the TRIPS agreement, which should achieve the abolition of vaccine patents. As a result, many European countries, but also the United States, are blocking the WTO negotiations on the agreement. This is, of course, contrary to an international and scientific spirit which is growing increasingly and which is also evident in an open letter from more than 170 Nobel Prize winners and former Heads of State to President Biden, in which they call on the rich countries to abolish the intellectual property of the covid vaccines. Every day that shareholders' profits are considered more important than human lives, causes unnecessary and perfectly avoidable suffering. Unfortunately, the COVAX initiative, which has to anoint those wounds, is far from satisfactory. Madam Secretary, you yourself stated that you are in favour of the lifting of the patents on the corona vaccine. That is why I would have liked to ask you the following questions. What position has Belgium taken in the WTO negotiations of 11 March? If that is the same position as the EU, if our position is the same as the positions of the EU, the US and the United Kingdom, then that is a certain contradiction with your statements on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u50	Madam President, Mr De Vuyst, the issue of access to vaccines for developing countries is very important. There is our moral duty to international solidarity, but there is also common sense. No one's safe until everyone's safe. The virus doesn't stop at the borders. That is why the very unfair access to vaccination throughout the world is unacceptable. Like the other EU countries, Belgium is represented on the WTO TRIPS Council by the European Commission. It opposes the lifting of patents. Like the United Kingdom, the United States, Japan, Mexico, Chile and Ecuador, for example, the European Commission believes that this is not the right way to achieve our common goal. The intellectual property system creates a framework for cooperation and knowledge transfer necessary to increase production capacity. It therefore puts cooperation agreements with vaccine-producing companies and voluntary initiatives first. If these initiatives were not to have the desired result and indications would emerge that intellectual property would constitute an obstacle to access to vaccines, which has not been demonstrated so far, the European Commission is ready to assist countries in implementing the other possibilities already existing within the TRIPS Agreement, such as compulsory licences. As Minister for Development Cooperation, I continue to advocate at European level a more flexible and innovative attitude of the European Union to intellectual property law. In addition, Belgium continues to insist that the concerns of the countries requesting a TRIPS Waiver should be taken very seriously. Belgium supports the Commission in its dialogue with these countries, which is being intensively encouraged by our country, in order to better understand obstacles and access to vaccines. To actively contribute to this dialogue, the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, together with the FPS Economy and the FPS Public Health, launched a technical dialogue with representatives of the Belgian pharmaceutical sector. A first consultation took place in March. On 14 April, the newly appointed Director-General of the World Trade Organisation, the Nigerian doctor Ngozi, organised a webinar in the context of her third road in this file. The webinar brought together the pharmaceutical sector, including vaccine producers, governments such as the United States, India and South Africa, NGOs and international organisations such as the IMF and the World Health Organisation. This dialogue has already been used and we will continue to support it at all levels. Moreover, access to quality and affordable vaccines and medicines is a priority for all of us. The European Union, as an important exporter of vaccines, plays an essential role in the global distribution of vaccines and is making huge efforts at multilateral, European and bilateral levels, including COVAX, where Team Europe is the largest donor. In addition, the European Commission, in cooperation with our partner countries and the African Union, is studying the possibility of local production of vaccines and medicines in the long term, and should contribute to a better pandemic preparation. In the medium term, I am convinced that we will have to debate at political level, particularly the pharmaceutical sector and the academia, on the lessons to be learned from the COOVID-19 pandemic. Finally, we need a common and global approach to the development, production and accessibility of vaccines during a pandemic. In this debate, a global publicgood approach is needed, in particular to adapt existing legal instruments if necessary. I will argue within the government that our country, which is very active in the pharmaceutical sector, should set the tone and take the lead in this international debate. In short, people's health and well-being must and must remain our main objective. The multilateral system for the protection of intellectual property, like all other international structures and mechanisms, should serve this objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u51	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I attach great importance to your voluntarism and am convinced that you will advocate this issue in the bosom of the government and that the position will also be transferred at European level. Let there be no doubt about that, I believe in it. I am somewhat shocked that this is the official position of the European Commission. I wrote it down. If one considers that the patent on the corona vaccine is not yet regarded as an obstacle to the distribution and efficient distribution of the vaccines in the world, then that is striking. You said it yourself: we will not be safe until everyone has been vaccinated, and that must be done as soon as possible. The vaccine should spread faster than the virus. This really is a jaw blow and prevents a successful global approach to this pandemic. If the argument that innovation should be protected is protected, then I think that is bullshit and apekool. Indeed, some of the development costs are at the expense of the taxpayer. After all, universities and labs have been funded by taxpayers' money. Europe has agreed with the big producers and also guarantees the side effects. We have also contributed a great deal to the development costs of the vaccine. So, why would we place the patent entirely with the pharmaceutical multinationals? Actually, it's cynical. The longer one waits to spread the vaccines in the south, the more the virus gets the chance to mutate and create variants, against which the vaccine may no longer work. In the worst-case scenario, we will continue to face corona. I hope that you will be passionately advocating, as you say, in the bosom of the government, but also at European level, that the patent be lifted. If the European Union continues to persist in this position, I do not think that we should continue to be obedient. The fight against patents is now also a fight for everyone's health, including that of our Belgian citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u52	Madam Secretary, Saudi Arabia and the countries that support and enable the Saudi-Emiratic war against Yemen, headed by the United States and the UK, have finally offered peace negotiations to the Yemeni people after six years of immense and pointless misery. However, the Yemenis refuse to negotiate until the blockade of the port of Hodeida by these countries is lifted. On Monday 19 April an article was published in De Morgen, which was co-written by a doctor of the Al Joumhoury Hospital in Saada, North Yemen, which reveals the horrific situation of the population. The hospital, which is barely functional because of a shortage of medicines and equipment and is difficult to reach due to a lack of fuel and bombed roads, faces a significant increase in miscarriage, premature births and deformed children. The persistent effects of famine, malnutrition and the endless Saudi bombing on civilian infrastructure and other civilian targets have thoroughly polluted the country and the atmosphere. This will also have long-term effects for future generations. By 2020, the UN managed to raise €1.7 billion of support for the Yemeni population. Unfortunately, these relief supplies barely reach the affected population. In fact, Saudi Arabia regularly prevents the docking of boats with vital resources. In 2020, for example, no oil tanker was allowed to enter the port of Hodeida, on which the north of the country depends, which makes the distribution of the relief goods very difficult. It is therefore far from certain that the EUR 5 million you promised to release for Yemen will actually reach the population. This illustrates how an incoherent foreign policy can destroy the efforts of development cooperation. As long as there is no diplomatic and economic pressure on the Saudi Government to end the war and to allow aid to be granted indefinitely, any aid remains a theoretical and uncertain one. Madam Secretary, will you urge the Government of Saudi Arabia and the other countries concerned to allow the aid and fuel needed to distribute them to the port of Hodeida as well? Have you discussed with Minister Wilmès the Belgian position vis-à-vis Saudi Arabia in relation to the situation in Yemen? If so, what were the conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u53	Madam President, Mr De Vuyst, as I said in the past, I am very concerned about the humanitarian situation in Yemen. That is why I announced EUR 5 million earlier this year at a donor conference, as you mentioned, to meet the humanitarian needs in Yemen. Meanwhile, the lack of humanitarian access remains extremely problematic. Blocking the entrance of essential resources, such as fuel and aid, is unacceptable and has a very serious impact on the population. Belgium therefore supports the actions of UN Special Envoy Martin Griffiths to improve the political situation. In addition, the issue of humanitarian access is also constantly being defended by Belgium. Within multilateral fora, such as in recent years in the Security Council, as well as in bilateral contacts with the Yemeni authorities, the Saudi authorities or any other party to the conflict, Belgium calls for greater access to the country. This includes access to humanitarian aid and commercial goods, but also access for aid workers to the country. The Yemeni question is also systematically raised in bilateral meetings with Saudi officials, but I will not fail to repeat my personal concerns to my fellow Minister Wilmès and to ask for humanitarian access to be kept on the agenda when she meets her Saudi counterparts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u54	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I take note again of your voluntarism and I hope and am convinced that you will translate your words into action. The situation in Yemen is terrifying. Hunger has been deliberately deployed there several times as a weapon of war. Saudi Arabia has repeatedly violated international law. In the figures, the proportions are also hallucinating. Three quarters of the population are currently dependent on humanitarian aid and protection. Three million children are in acute famine. This is not only a result of hostilities, but also a result of the maritime blockade that Saudi Arabia has built around the country. I must also name the elephant in the room, because that devastating war hardly seems to have an impact on arms exports to Saudi Arabia. Over the past year, exports have increased by 225 percent, of which 61 percent come from the US and a small quarter from Great Britain. Nothing is denied. It's about fighters, helicopters, cluster munitions, missiles, tanks and so on. Belgium also has an important part to play in this. You just said that policy coherence is also important. I can therefore only remind you once again of your intention to pursue policy coherence between Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation. I therefore hope that Belgium will have the courage to look into its own bosom, but also to ask our self-declared allies, such as the US, to stop holding hands over Saudi Arabia when it is repeatedly guilty of violating international law, resulting in an unprecedented humanitarian catastrophe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic444x.u55	Madam Minister, we will meet again on Tuesday 12 May for an exchange of views on the flexible financing of humanitarian aid.
