ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u1	Madam Minister, even if it is the third time that the issue is on the agenda, the first time you forgot the answer, the second time I had an obligation in another committee, and three times it is the charm, it remains a topical issue. After all, from 2026, all cars that do not emit CO2 will retain their tax favor regime of 100 % deductibility. With this, the government wants to ensure that the company fleet is fully electric by 2030. Those are ambitious plans. The deadline is pretty tight. For example, the increase in the number of electric cars requires an accelerated installation of an additional public charging pole infrastructure. The question now is whether all the regions can and will make the necessary efforts. Can you provide a state of play for each of the three regions of the country regarding the existing public charging terminal infrastructure? How many public loading posts do the Regions have today? Are there any objective estimates on the number of public charging stations to be installed in each region when the company car fleet is fully electrified in 2030, and on the expected increase of electric cars to be purchased by private individuals? Can you also indicate for each of the three regions what their ambitions are with regard to the roll-out of the public charging infrastructure? How do you estimate these ambitions? In your opinion, will these ambitions suffice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u2	Mr President, Mr Raskin, regional ambitions are included in the National Energy and Climate Plan. What is stated in the National Energy and Climate Plan is the following. For Flanders: the realization of the base charging infrastructure of 7,400 public-access charging points, spread across Flanders and a fast charging infrastructure with charging points every 25 kilometres along the major traffic axes. For Wallonia: 6,900 public charging points and 185,000 charging points for use in the business context. For Brussels: a first concession for charging infrastructure for at least 100 charging stations per year for the period 2018-2021, and a second concession for 2022-2025 with higher objectives. In doing so, Brussels aims at 1 charging point accessible to the public per 10 electric vehicles. The roll-out of the necessary loading infrastructure is important for realising our ambition to phase out the sale of vehicles other than zero-emission cars. The federal government is pursuing a supportive policy to achieve these ambitions, for example through the introduction of a fiscal stimulus for the installation of smart loading posts by my colleague, Minister Van Peteghem. For your questions about any additional ambitions or estimates of the three Regions, I can only refer you to the relevant ministers and parliaments. As you know, the powers in this country are governed by the special law and are not controlled by the federal government in the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u3	Madam Minister, your answer is absolutely much more concrete than it was the first time. I think we can say that the ambition in Brussels is rather modest. Today there are several hundred loading posts. Mrs Van den Brandt said not so long ago that she hoped to go to 11,000 in 2035. That's 14 years from now. Mr Smet points out that this ambition is modest, because Brussels prefers not to have cars, even if they are clean cars. I do not want to say that there is no work to be done in Flanders. But that's where there's quite a bit of ambition. The Minister responsible, a member of our committee chairman's party, is still sticking her neck out for this and is talking about 30,000 additional loading posts by 2025. That's barely four years from now. Greening is good, useful and necessary, but it must of course be thoughtful. The pull policy of Flanders, where a lot of loading posts are placed that should provide an incentive to buy, is quite different from a push policy, whereby masses of electric vehicles are pushed onto the road without the guarantee that there will be enough loading posts tomorrow. You must be careful not to create an elite of people with their own garage and driveway. It is, of course, the responsibility of the regions, but my final question was how you personally assess the ambitions of the regions. I have not heard an answer to that, but we will of course come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, following the adoption by Parliament of the Act of 12 June 2020 laying down various provisions concerning the federal contribution to the financing of the Social Gas-Electricity Fund, the balance of the "heating premium" fund is allocated to finance the indexing of the resources allocated to the Social Gas-Electricity Fund, also known as the "CPAS Fund". Following the payment to the CPAS in 2020 of the amount of indexation relating to the years 2019 and 2020, the balance of the heating premium fund as at 31 December 2020 was EUR 11.9 million. The Court of Auditors draws attention to the fact that, from 2022 onwards, the cost of indexing will only be partially covered by the balance still available in the "heat premium" fund. Minister, in view of the current situation, it is imperative to maintain indexation for the resources allocated to the Social Gas-Electricity Fund. Do you have a solution to finance this indexation by 2022? If so, what is it? Will it require an amendment to the Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u5	Mr President, Mr Bombled, as you have indicated, the initiative of this Parliament and the law unanimously passed by it have made it possible for the Social Fund for Gas-Electricity to be indexed again. Parliament's intervention was really necessary because we know that one in five households have difficulty paying their electricity bills. The Social Gas-Electricity Fund is a tool for CPAS not only in the framework of curative but also preventive measures. It is therefore an essential means of combating energy insecurity. In the vote in Parliament, our common wish was that this indexation should not be passed on to the invoice. That is why your colleague, Michel De Maegd, suggested using this CREG sleeping fund. But we also knew that at some point in 2022, this fund would not, in principle, be enough anymore, since it was a fund with a limited amount. A solution is therefore needed to ensure this indexation. That's one of my concerns. We are looking at how we can deal with this problem. Work continues within the government, during inter-cabinet meetings and in connection with budget discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u6	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, anyone who has difficulty paying his energy bill can benefit from the Social Gas-Electricity Fund. In order to do so, it submits the application to the CPAS of its municipality. The latter will decide to intervene financially after having carried out an appropriate social survey. As you said, CPAS intervention can be either curative or preventive. Curative is the clearance of unpaid invoices. Preventive is, for example, financing the purchase of safer or less energy-efficient appliances. In response to this demand, it is important to guarantee the indexation of the Social Gas-Electricity Fund. I hear you're working on it. I will be paying attention to the development of this issue in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u7	Minister, on April 21, the Tihange 2 reactor stopped automatically during a test in which a steam generator water valve in the non-nuclear part of the site closed, according to Engie's spokesperson, who said there would have been no safety impact. On the other hand, in all cases this has had an impact on the price of electricity, which broke a record in the wholesale market, reaching €3,200 per MWh for a short period, according to Elia. However, according to Elia, there would be very little, if any, impact on consumers, since this short price surge would be "read in the long term". Minister, did you talk to Engie about this? Could you tell us more about the circumstances of this unscheduled stop? How long was the reactor shut down? Is this a human error? Would it be legitimate to question the reactor's seniority here? Has there been an impact on our security of supply? If so, how big is it? Do you confirm that there will be no future impact on the consumer's bill? Finally, what has been put in place to prevent such a judgment from happening again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u8	Mr.Ben Achour, at his restart on Thursday 23 April 2021, the Tihange 2 power plant decoupled from the network at about 11:40 p.m., following a turbine start. The latter is due to a lack of depression in the condenser located in the non-nuclear part of the plant. This is not a human error. The decrease in power of the reactor was carried out in accordance with the procedures. After the necessary interventions, the power of the reactor was increased and the unit returned to the network. The availability of our nuclear power plants has already been the subject of much debate in this Parliament, given the many problems and maintenance work since 2012. Since 2019, the situation seems to be somewhat normal. This year, we can even count on the seven reactors. Sudden technical problems can never be excluded. It must be said that they are quite limited but it is true that the impact of a breakdown is immediately considerable, especially if an important flexible source such as Coo is temporarily unavailable and you need to use the other flexibilities of the market. Like all system operators, Elia ensures the balance of its control area. Each Responsible Balance Party (BRP) balances samples and injections in its customer portfolio on a quarter-hour basis. However, when GROs are unable to do so, Elia may take the necessary steps to address the remaining imbalance between production and consumption. To this end, Elia organizes a balancing market and creates a reserve of flexible capabilities offered by the Balancing Service Provider, the BSPs. BSPs also offer an activation price for this capacity. If Elia has to activate its reserves, the cost is passed on to the tariffs of imbalances. The activation price of the reserve is a free price fixed by the market participants themselves. In Belgium, this price is set at a maximum of EUR 13,500 per MWh. As a result of the Tihange 2 problems, Elia had to intervene and activate a very large number of reserves, especially in the two-quarters of an hour after the accident. Reserves are activated according to the offers, the lowest price at the highest price. In this case, an offer of €3,200 per MWh was also activated. It was an offer based on demand management. The fact that the reserves had to be dug so deeply is also due to the fact that an important source of flexibility, the Coo power plant, is under maintenance from 14 April 2021 to 15 July 2021. It is since the construction of this plant in the 1970s that it is completely unavailable. Coo has only one lower basin that has now been drained for work. Coo has two upper basins, which means that, so far, it has always had an availability of about 50%. As regards the impact on the price of the electricity bill, it is difficult to give an estimate because it depends on a large number of factors, such as the type of contract concluded between the end user and its supplier. Is it a fixed price contract or a market-based and variable price contract? Does it include imbalances or a pricing formula for the impact of certain risks? In most cases, an exceptional price peak does not have a significant impact on a final invoice, mainly related to the overnight and future wholesale price. In particular, residential customer contracts will not be affected. The severe shocks of imbalance prices show, once again, that a modernisation of our energy system is highly necessary. Previously, wind turbines had to stop while the wind was blowing because of the negative prices. As a result, the Government approved the volume of CRM - evidence that the investment mechanism does not record a day of delay. In this way, we will be able to benefit from greater flexibility to avoid such severe price shocks, ensure the continued growth of renewable energy and secure our supply. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u9	Mr. Chair, I would just like to thank the minister for the clear, clear and clear answer she provided to each of my questions and sub-questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u10	Madam Secretary, this case has been on the agenda for a very long time. I've been following the file since I was a counselor in this file across the street. I have probably devoted one of my first parliamentary questions to it. Today there would be a solution. I will confine myself to asking you what this solution is and what initiatives you have taken in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u11	Mr President, my predecessor's short speaking time gives me the opportunity to speak a little longer. Madam Secretary, you already had a meeting with the Belgian Petroleum Federation and Informazout on 12 February 2021. In reply to my oral question, you replied that you had an agreement on the federal side of the matter, including on the precise contribution that would be paid in full into a maximum price, once recognition of the fund was obtained, and on the fact that recovery would be stopped once the maximum amount of EUR 512 million in contributions was collected. However, the problem was on the Flemish side, because of the general ban on the sale or placing of fuel oil boilers in Flanders. A lot has happened in the meantime. If we have to believe your Facebook and Twitter account, you are a master of diplomacy and negotiation techniques. After all, an agreement, the Promaz Agreement of 7 May 2021, has been concluded. This is mainly about funding, where the sector has admitted a little bit. At least that's what it looks like. But then we find that during a hearing in the Flemish Parliament, people still remain rather angry about the problems that might arise in the replacement market. Mrs Demir would insist on this: if there are natural gas pipelines, there should be no replacements for the boilers. What explanation can you give for all these developments? Could you clarify that a little bit? After all, there had been some confusion through the many press articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u12	Madam Secretary, I will not repeat the context. My question concerns the agreement you would have reached with the fuel oil industry on the establishment of the fund this year. Did you effectively conclude a written agreement with the sector on 7 May? If so, we would like to receive a copy of it. What was agreed in concrete terms? We might be able to read that if you give us a copy later. What is the legal value of the agreement you concluded? Did you involve the Minister for Economic Affairs in the conclusion of the agreement of 7 May?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u13	I am happy to endorse this. Ten thousand Belgians who have to do with soil pollution from fuel oil, that's not nothing. It is a good thing that they are finally getting a perspective on how to repay the clean-up of their polluted land. As colleagues have already said, we have heard that a constructive discussion with the sector has had an effect. That's a relief. Mr Wollants has already said that this dossier is dragging on for a long time. The sector will now submit a dossier to the Interregional Soil Reunification Commission, so that the Promaz Fund can finally be set up. Madam Secretary, what were the bottlenecks for the sector to set up the fund? How could you make a concrete contribution to a solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u14	Mr President, a number of Members do not question me on this for the first time, which is right. We are talking about 10,000 people in our country who are suffering from pollution caused by a leaking fuel oil tank. We are talking about 10,000 people who have a huge bill hanging over their heads, but also about a very high level of environmental pollution. I have already said that I think we all share that feeling that the fact that the fund could not be set up until now and could not be operational in the first place is very bad. On 20 January 2021, I received a letter from the Belgian Petroleum Federation concerning the problems of the fuel oil chains and the Promaz soil sanitation fund. In that letter, the sector explains what steps have already been taken and stresses its will to find a solution. Furthermore, the sector expressed its concern about the feasibility and affordability of the project for the sector and set four conditions: the contribution to the fund may not exceed EUR 10 per 1000 litres, the contribution should be included in the maximum price under the programme agreement, the contribution may not exceed EUR 512 million and no general ban on the sale or placing of fueloil boilers in the three regions should be introduced, at least for the duration necessary for the financial viability of the fund. Mr Ravyts, you questioned me on 2 March and I replied that there had been a contact with the Interregional Soil Remodeling Committee on 26 January in order to further advance the dossier. The federal government then indicated that it could agree to the first three points relating to federal powers. I also replied to him: 'I have exhausted my federal competence, because the fourth objection is a competence of the regions. I hope that there will soon be a comparison on this last point, so that recognition can be started." On the fourth condition, the Interregional Soil Reunification Committee has not ruled because that is a political decision. It is about something that is in the Flemish government agreement, it is about something that the Brussels and Walloon governments are also working on. It is, therefore, a key issue which is difficult to establish in the framework of this fund. In order to unblock the dossier, I took the initiative at the beginning of May to consult with the sector. These consultations resulted in a joint decision which I would like to clarify. Firstly, the general prohibition cannot be cancelled, since it is already part of the government agreement of one of the regions in 2021. In order to ensure the feasibility and affordability of the Fund, there will be a biennial financial evaluation. There will also be an evaluation after closing the call at the end of the third year. Finally, the sector also proposes that priority be given to the dossiers to be dealt with, with priority being given to files with a direct and imminent danger of serious emergencies, before users and finally the tanks no longer used. The result of this consultation is that the sector is ready to submit the recognition file for Promaz as soon as possible to the Interregional Soil Reunification Committee, preferably by the end of June 2021. I am very pleased with this result, because it actually helps people, in a file that has been dragging on for almost two decades. It also shows that governments can help each other and that they can solve matters for each other in the interests of our citizens, the 10,000 people who are facing today a leaking fuel oil tank. I shall now turn to the specific questions put by Mr Raskin. I have already explained the content of the agreement. It has not been drawn up in the form of a contract, but it does not prevent mutual rights and obligations. From the federal point of view, we are acting on the question of funding. On the other hand, by the end of June 2021, the sector will submit a dossier to the Interregional Soil Reunification Commission. The agreement has therefore been concluded between the sector and myself, in accordance with my powers as Energy Minister. The Minister for Economic Affairs is responsible for the programme agreement and I informed him of the agreement reached. I am pleased that Promaz will now be realized. I am confident in this and I welcome the cooperation on this dossier. I have also read that the three ministers of our country are satisfied that this dossier will finally be unblocked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u15	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the clarity you have provided here. It is absolutely a good thing that the fund is going to be there. The issue has been on the agenda for a long time. We hope that this was now the last step on which the dossier could be blocked. At the end of the previous legislature, Minister Kris Peeters also submitted a dossier here and stated that the matter had been resolved. It was almost solved. Let us hope that the problem is now solved completely. However, we will not be satisfied until the last obstacles have been removed, so that the people concerned can see the money and we can move forward. That is a good thing. We also need to look at how the various governments play best together. In this respect, there were already initiatives by the Flemish Government. It cannot, however, deal with financing. In Flanders, a major step has indeed been taken by indicating that fuel oil boilers are not a good thing in all places. That is the step we are taking to advance the country's climate policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u16	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clarification. Yes, you can have a bank forward. You have done a good job and rightly made it known to the world that you, Mr President, have played a certain role in the unblocking of things. I do not know if the notice of default announced by your Flemish colleague was the most sensible option. I'd like to put that here and honestly. The file is now on the right course. I hope that the proposal will now be submitted to the Interregional Soil Reform Committee, that it will finally be implemented and that some serious dossiers will be dealt with as a matter of priority in the interests of the owners or users concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u17	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I would like to join the previous speakers. I think it is a good thing that the problem facing ten thousand people is being taken to heart, because it is a legitimate concern. I would also like to thank you for the clarity you have provided. You have made a number of agreements with the sector, but I find it difficult to call that a major agreement. There is no contract, nothing has yet been signed. The inter-regional committee will have to look at this first, as will the various levels in this country, and indeed your colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs. The result is a price increase of 1 cent per litre of gas oil, which is passed on to the final consumer. I expected you to have agreed with Minister Dermagne on this, but you seem to have just informed him. That is why I will also ask him about a number of details.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. You are right to say that the matter deserved a solution or a step in the right direction. Soil pollution caused by leaking fuel oil tanks needs to be addressed. It is expensive and fair to admit that it often exceeds the financial resources of the individuals in charge of these costs. It's a good thing there's an eye for that. By listening to the sector and not shouting through, but by entering into dialogue, you have tried to find a solution. Thanks to your approach, we are taking a good step in the right direction, an important step forward. The dossier submitted to the Interregional Soil Reunification Committee must now be examined in greater detail so that the Fund can also be set up. Once again, I would like to thank you in particular for your approach, which has led to progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u19	Mr President, Minister, Minister Khattabi's cabinet pointed out recent study work showing that, depending on the EU ETS's ambition, carbon prices could rise to 129 euro/tonne in 2030. The LCOE calculator of the International Energy Agency can calculate what that means for the cost of electricity generation through gas plants. That would mean an LCOE of 98 euros per megawatt hour. That's a lot more than today. The additional gas plants you are proposing, you say two to three, but they are big ones, will then become the marginal technology that will determine the price of electricity in this country. This does not seem to me to be a good thing for affordability and competitiveness. If the government is already aware of this anticipated CO2 price, then how responsible is the choice for that technology? Madam Secretary, are you aware of the expectations of carbon tarification? In what way is the CRM aimed at achieving a cost-optimum as CO2 efficient as possible? In what way do you want to translate this aspect into your plans for an energy standard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u20	Mr President, Mr Wollants, we checked with Minister Khattabi's cabinet: communication about the study was not based on her, but on a personal tweet by one of her employees. Europe sets an emissions target for the ETS and the ETS price is the same for all Member States and ETS sectors. As for your concerns about the cost-optimum for CO2 reductions, this is embedded in the design of the ETS. You suggest in your question that if the carbon price rises, it increases only for gas plants and only for new gas plants under the CRM. That's not true. All electricity generation based on fossil fuels across Europe is covered by the ETS emission ceiling. If the ETS price rises, this will primarily lead to the withdrawal of lignite plants in Germany, for example. In a subsequent phase, this will lead to higher marginal reduction costs making the use of demand management and storage, but also of forms of renewable gas in gas plants and even CCS more competitive. Your statement that the additional gas plants under the CRM will more often become the marginal technology that determines the price of electricity in this country does not seem sufficiently substantiated to me, all the more so because we are a highly interconnected country and our market is linked to the neighbouring European countries. On the one hand, thanks to the auctioning system, CRM aims to select the most economically interesting projects, i.e. those with the lowest missing money and, on the other hand, the ETS aims to ensure the reduction targets in the most cost-effective way possible by connecting economic value to reducing emissions. So both go hand in hand. By connecting a price to the CO2 and by selecting the projects with the lowest missing money, the CRM supports the energy transition. Both the ETS and the price of electricity should be framed in the European free market. The energy standard will initially respond to the federal components of the electricity bill. For this we are currently working on a dynamic model that we will present in the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u21	Madam Secretary, I only have the text of my question with me. I am not at all clear in what direction that text makes things appear. I have read the text again, but nothing is said in that direction. You say that only the new natural gas plants will have to pay more for their carbon. That's just not in that question. You say that it is not certain that if more natural gas plants are built, they will more often be marginal technology. I have not sufficiently substantiated this in my paper on an oral question which may last up to two minutes. In that respect, you seem to be ruling out the possibility that it would be. However, studies by EnergyVille and the like indicate that the new natural gas plants may run more than 6,000 hours a year. I do not think it is unlikely that natural gas will be more and more the technology that will determine the prices for it. You close your eyes today, you say that it is all included in the system and that we will see where we come from. I'm looking at that with a slightly different pair of glasses and I'm looking at what's coming. In that sense, we had together looked forward to proposals to ensure that federal additional costs would fall by the end of 2020. There aren't any. There won't be any for a while. You said that you might want to do something about this in the autumn, nine months after the deadline has expired. You will understand that I continue to urge you to do so, especially if you regularly use my name in your press releases to indicate that there is improvement, that we have reached a good agreement together. Then perhaps you should do the right thing instead of postponing it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u22	Apparently, there's an underlying agenda that we don't know about.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Colebunders had been postponed to 55017222C. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Warmoes's 55017230C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u24	Mr. President, please excuse me for interrupting. I wanted to ask you about the organization of our work. Perhaps you gave the information at the beginning of the meeting, which I would have missed then, but until what time can our questions continue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u25	Until the list of issues is exhausted. I don't see any reaction from the minister. It is therefore available. For me, we can continue until 2:00 p.m., when Minister Van Quickenborne will join us – while he is limited in time, since he will have to leave the commission at about 3:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u26	Mr President, since I have an appointment at 12:30 p.m., may I ask you to postpone my question No 55017916C on the security of energy infrastructure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u27	I take note of that, my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u28	Mr President, I thank you and ask you again to apologize for this interruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u29	Mr President, I have seen that my question has been combined with the question on the CRM and the energy transition. Those are two separate parts. I will ask both questions, it may be that the Minister has a joint answer. Madam Minister, on 4 May 2021, you indicated in the committee that you included biomass, cogeneration (cHP) and waste incineration, which may still be eligible for aid from the Regions, as ineligible capacity, and that you chose to consider all the capacities that are connected to the distribution network as ineligible. For the Elianet it would be those who, according to the regional authorities, might still be eligible. When I look at my own region of Flanders, the large part of these capacities may still be eligible, provided there is an extension and there is a radical change. This means that the aid will not be renewable until the pre-qualification has taken place. When I bring in Elijah's frequently asked questions, they are currently giving the answer to..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The current status is not important, that's what it says. Then the question is how you will deal with it. In committee, you said that they are not obliged to participate because they may still receive support. But now I see a contradiction between the two. That might have something to do with the timing. But a halt to that capacity before the year of delivery also seems to me to be a problem. So, in concrete terms, if regional aid has not yet been extended, are they obliged to participate? If they are obliged to participate, but they gamble or hope for an extension, should they choose the opt-out? If they are not obliged to participate, can they still opt for a permanent cessation after the pre-qualification? In what way do you deal with that capacity? If they are not obliged to participate but do not receive an extension, can they still participate in the T-4 auction? These are a number of important aspects. The second element I wanted to mention is the energy transition and the CRM. In the meantime, the operating rules include that three commitments are counted if one wants to pre-qualify with a fossil-powered production plant for a long-term contract of 15 years. The CO2 reduction shall be technically and economically examined before the end of 2026. An emission reduction plan with intermediate targets in 2035 and 2045 should be drawn up before the end of 2027. At least zero emissions must be achieved before 2050. Now the question is what to expect. The first and second commitments do not in any way include the number of reductions to be made. The only real commitment is zero emissions by 2050. That is just when it is necessary to decide whether to reinvest or to close down the installations. Then the question is how this commitment can still be made good before 2045-2050, when the capacity contract has long ended. This automatically leads to a number of questions. Does the capacity provider itself decide what its ambition is in terms of emission reduction for the interim objective? To what extent is a provider still bound in, for example, 2045 if the capacity contract is already over? What if the plant has changed ownership in the meantime? Is it still bound by the commitment of a previous owner of the plant? What sanctions are provided for if the intermediate targets are not met by 2035 or 2045?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u30	Madam Minister, at the very beginning of the pre-qualification procedure, with the deadline of 15 June, you have unpacked an additional sustainability clause for those who submit a dossier for pre-qualification. A written declaration should be added to the dossier, a commitment in the context of the energy transition. Mr Wollants outlined the framework, including the emission reduction plan with intermediate objectives. He has asked you a number of practical questions, including the descending capacity contract, which also fascinated me. Can you give a more concrete explanation of the additional sustainability clause? I had to look for some in the more than 400 pages, finally approved operating rules on the website of the CREG. I then found it in the pre-qualification requirements. How exactly does this fit in with Article 7l, § 12, of the Electricity Act, which defines the subjects to be covered by the operating rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u31	Madam Minister, the CREG published the decision laying down the rules governing the operation of the CRM. It is very clear that, in addition to reducing the number of gas plants, we are also looking at the gradual reduction of emissions from these plants. As early as 2026 producers are expected to launch a feasibility study on the reduction. By 2027 there should be a reduction plan on the table with intermediate targets. By 2050 at the latest, zero emissions must be achieved. The FOD will check this out. Madam Minister, how do you see the implementation of this feasibility study and the reduction plans in practice? What research efforts and concrete elements should be included for you? How will this process be followed by the FOD? How will the results be guaranteed? In its latest roadmap, the International Energy Agency advocates net zero emissions from the energy sector by 2040. Are we sufficiently ambitious with this arrangement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u32	Mr President, Mr Wollants, your question on the obligation to pre-qualification is quite right and deserves some clarification. It concerns the KB cumulative which determines the conditions under which capacity holders who benefit from or have benefited from the aid are entitled to participate in the pre-qualification procedure. The KB cumulation provides that units for which there is a right to operating aid during the relevant period of the capacity supply do not in principle meet the eligibility criteria, unless they explicitly undertake to waive this operating aid during the period in question. This means that they are not obliged to submit a pre-qualification file, but it is possible to submit a pre-qualification file if they explicitly commit to abandoning operating aid. Consequently, capacities benefiting or entitled to operating aid during the period of capacity supply 2025 are not required to submit a pre-qualification file. One can, however, submit a pre-qualification dossier, together with the commitment to abandon the aid. Capacitys that no longer benefit from operating aid during the period of capacity supply 2025 and are not entitled to it are, however, required to submit a pre-qualification dossier. This applies to both the T-4 and the T-1 auction. The units that are not required to participate can indeed still participate in T-1. Several capacities in the Flemish Region are eligible for an extension of their operating aid in the context of a major change. There is therefore a right to operating aid, but it is conditional. In the context of a demand curve, these are considered ineligible capacity. The demand curve shall be corrected after the pre-qualification for the units concerned which have submitted a pre-qualification dossier on a voluntary basis. Consequently, if those capacities already know today that they will no longer rely on the Flemish operating aid during the period of capacity supply 2025, they may submit a pre-qualification file with a waiver certificate. If they have no clarity about a possible extension of the Flemish operating aid or participation in the CRM, they are not obliged to submit a pre-qualification file. If they know that they will close by the capacity delivery period 2025, they can submit a fast track pre-qualification file with the opt-in/opt-out option. If those units do not opt for a definitive cessation until after the pre-qualification for T-4, we will be informed in accordance with the modalities of Article 4a of the Electricity Act and can correct the T-1 auction for the corresponding volume. Indeed, the system of two auctions for one delivery year allows for interim evaluations, such as closures or additional capacities. I did indeed invite Elijah to modify the corresponding FAQs, which has already been done in the meantime, precisely to avoid confusion. That brings me to the sustainability clauses. Mr Ravyts, they are indeed included in the operating rules laid down by the CREG. It provides that parties wishing to participate in new 15-year contracts will recognise that obtaining a capacity contract will in no way exempt them from current and future European and Belgian legislation and targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Moreover, obtaining a capacity contract commits them to contribute to policy-making work in order to achieve those objectives. As you have all explained, they will have to carry out a technical and economic feasibility study by the end of 2026 and by 31 December 2027 they will have to draw up an emission reduction plan showing how they will contribute to the transition to climate neutrality by 2050, with intermediate targets for the years 2035 and 2045, in order to achieve both zero or negative emissions by 2050. By already anchoring this sustainability clause in the operating rules, we are already setting a path with a clear end goal and thus bringing the CRM explicitly in line with the European Green Deal. In the coming years there will be a lot of research and we will undoubtedly see a lot of developments. Well, with that clause, we provide a framework for the parties participating in the auction. We are convinced that these parties' efforts and contributions to policy-making will lead to better results. Mr Ravyts, the list in Article 7l, Paragraph 12 is not exhaustive; so that could be incorporated without problems. Mr Wollants, it is not the capacity provider who defines the ambitions, but the European and Belgian legislators. The capacity provider will have to fill out how he or she will meet the current and future European and Belgian objectives. This will be largely driven by the expected developments of the ETS, which we discussed in the previous question. European policies will aim at achieving 55% CO2 reduction by 2030 and full carbon neutrality by 2050. From certain levels of prices for allowances, a number of techniques or technologies will become profitable. Some examples are the mixing of biogases or hydrogen, pre-combustion carbon capture, such as pyrolysis, and even CCS and CCU. The clause thus allows us to look proactively, together with the sector, and we can also set the intermediate objectives with them. With regard to your second question, which Mrs Marghem has also asked, this will be included in the capacity contract appropriately. I would also like to point out that the rules of common law apply. This does not prevent certain commitments in contracts from exceeding the end date of the contract. That's also common in contracts. It is clear that, in the absence of the declaration, the candidate will not be able to be prequalified. Furthermore, I would point out that the breach of a commitment made on the basis of the operating rules in my view constitutes an infringement of an implementing act of the Electricity Act. The standard sanctions are set out in Article 30 and beyond of the Electricity Act, an article to which we referred and which has also been discussed here in other discussions on CRM, in particular on the derogation from the IPC elements, as Mrs Marghem has mentioned a number of times. Ms Buyst, the Belgian State ratified the 2015 Paris Agreement and, together with the other European Member States, committed itself to reducing CO2 emissions by 55% by 2030 and achieving climate neutrality by 2050. It is therefore crucial that the new investments in our country are registered in these European and Belgian ambitions. I believe that this can best be achieved by engaging in the pre-qualification candidate investors. In this way, these parties are fully involved in achieving the objectives. The feasibility study and the reduction plans will be very important elements in this. It is up to the parties who get a 15-year contract to see what technologies are possible. On the basis of the feasibility study, a roadmap should be presented by the end of 2027 containing a number of clear intermediate objectives for the years 2035 and 2045. Some choices will probably be technical and economical. Its realization will be monitored by the General Energy Directorate with a simple follow-up. Other choices could also involve the public authorities or other infrastructure managers. I am thinking here of the construction of the hydrogen and/or CO2 backbone. Additional agreements or regulations will then have to be drawn up for these choices. The advantage of our approach is that we do not anticipate the results of the auction or the number of gas plants that will come. Last time and following Parliament's consultation on the volume, I said that I did everything I could to reduce the number of gas plants. We must certainly ensure that this is the next step towards the full integration of the gas plants which are being developed into carbon neutrality. We must therefore tell investors today that fossil gas will have to be abandoned. We must be clear about this ambition and ask them for the necessary commitments in this area. Mrs Buyst, you are quite right to ask whether the scheme is sufficiently ambitious. You refer to the report of the International Energy Agency which appeared last week. An advantage of our approach is that we can be flexible and that we can always make informed and informed decisions. If the feasibility study shows that higher ambitions are possible, then we must also pursue them. In this context, the signal from the International Energy Agency is encouraging. This also means that the government will have to drive those who are planning investments today, and that the government will have to be very clear about its ambition. If the follow-up of the road maps proves difficult, we can also intervene in good time. We actually have everything in our hands, and that is important. The most important thing is that we always make the most efficient and cheapest choices, but always with that goal in mind, namely achieving carbon neutrality by 2050.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u33	Madam Secretary, I have two comments to make. First of all, when it comes to pre-qualification, it is an adjustment compared to what Elijah has always announced. What you're actually saying is that this way you can keep the ineligible capacity at a relatively high level right before the T-1 auction. That is what it is all about. The waste burners and the watts today do not know which direction it will go. They have no idea what the CRM auction will bring and they do not know how high the support will be after major changes. So they'll wait nine chances for ten just before the T-1 auction to make a decision. You said that they should not participate in the pre-qualification, which will allow you to keep them neatly included in your figures. Therefore, you do not need to adjust too much regarding the capacity auctioned in T-4. However, this may lead to much more capacity auctioning in T-1 than planned, which, of course, presents a certain risk, especially when it comes to large volumes. It will probably only become very clear in 2024 which direction it is heading. In the meantime, I have also heard that the risk of the T-1 auction is partly linked to my amendment relating to the 200 hours. Of course, this adds a piece to it. As far as sustainability clauses are concerned, you say that Belgian and European regulations set ambitions. That is, of course, the overall ambition, because that 55% is not applied per individual installation. If one assumes that an installation is closed after 25 years, just before 2050, then of course one does not have to make much extra effort in terms of zero emissions. I am therefore curious to see what will be the level of ambition there. I believe that this can be a special case, especially since we are actually asking for commitments to be made at a time when we do not even know whether the plant concerned will or will still be open. We still have to look at what this is doing in practice. You refer to the sanctions, but it seems to me very strong to enforce this sanction on the basis of a commitment to be made in 20 years' time or even longer. That seems pretty strong to me. We are certainly keeping this in mind, although we understand that it was visually important to cover up a little bit that fossil gas plants will soon be operating here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u34	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. You will, of course, deny it, but I am not surprised that you came up with the additional sustainability clause at the beginning of May 2021. Indeed, in the broad ecological movement in this country there was some criticism, even after the volume decision, for which you did your very best, which I also recognised. We have heard here the debate on the ineligible capacity, which is being continued during the update. This is also motivated by a great concern in the ecological movement, which you are following up with. I do wonder what impact this could have on investors and investment files, given the expected evolution of the ETS. You are, of course, talking about the debate on technologies, which will inevitably erupt. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u35	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply, which once again makes it very clear to me that you are a minister with a purpose in mind. The target is a switch to 100 % renewable energy and climate neutrality by 2050. If we want to get to that point, we have to get to it today. In recent years, our energy policy has been characterised too much by a stop-and-go policy. No matter which sector, but also a sector within the energy landscape, needs a clearly defined objective and a clear framework. The sustainability clause that you are now integrating into the criteria and entry into force rules can, in my view, be a driving force for the sector and for innovation in the gas sector, in order to ensure that this does not remain a dead letter. So I am satisfied with the sustainability criteria that you have included, because we must always keep the ultimate goal in mind. I repeat that the ultimate goal is to switch to 100% renewable energy and climate neutrality by 2050.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Colebunders had been postponed to 55017222C. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Warmoes's 55017230C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u37	Madam Minister, the press reports have now made it clear that it has been decided to expand Coo's pumping plant, not only the volume of storage but also its capacity. Oddly enough, the figures quoted are different from those quoted by ENGIE itself in the past as the specifications of that power station. The figures that Elijah reports on his website are also different. Now an extension of the plant from 1,080 to 1,154 megawatts is mentioned, but according to the figures that have always been circulating, that plant already had a capacity of 1,164 megawatts. Also for La Plate Taille there appear to be differences in the figures. They are not very different in themselves, but the capacity compensation system is based on the capacity of the installation. The question is whether or not that plant contributes to achieving the target capacity. I have some simple questions for you. What is the explanation for these differences? In what way is this clarified in the pre-qualification? How is this processed in the preparation of the production programme, the nominated capacity and the overview of available production capacity?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u38	My question is more general, Madam Secretary. On 10 May, you visited the Coo savings centre on the basis of the yard announced by the operator with a view to increasing its capital by 7.5%. Actually, that power plant acts like a huge battery. We know that. Coo will thus take an increasingly prominent place, as intermittent renewable energy sources will make increasing contributions. Coo will be able to be used to offset variable production and contribute to the real-time balance of the network. It's about $50 million worth of investment. I have a specific question about that. Your predecessor's plan was that the network tariff would be reduced for five years following a change in the electricity law, whereby investors in new storage capacity who expand at least 7.5 % would be granted an exemption of 80 %. ENGIE Electrabel, let's just say the name, was the first to use these investment incentives on a large scale. What specific role do you see in the energy transition for this savings bank following enlargement? From when does the operator benefit from the discount on the network rate? What other investors have already made use of the investment incentives created under your predecessor?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u39	Correct figures are indeed important in all files and certainly in a file like the CRM. Unfortunately, I cannot trace all the figures you quote from the press. I can only indicate which numbers are officially used. ENGIE itself announces in recent press releases the expected new power after the adaptation works of Coo's pumping plant. That's about 1,159 megawatts. For Plate Taille, Elia relies on the information contained in the contract for the injection of production units (CIPU). That is the operational contract relating to the injection of the production units, which each operator of production facilities concludes with Elijah. That contract regulates, as you indicate, the exchange of information with Elia, including the production programme, the nominated capacity and the available production capacity. For Plate Taille four times 36 megawatts, i.e. 144 megawatts, installed power is formally established. The CIPU with ENGIE for the Coo pumping plant will be updated with the final power after the adjustment works. Another formal source of available production capacity is the transparency publications of operators, including on the recognised transparency platforms under the REMIT obligations. We can now find that 1,080 megawatt current capacity of Coo is not available until 15 July 2021. During the pre-qualification, the tenderer shall be responsible for establishing the capacity. If selected in the context of the auction, the capacity holder will have to ensure that the capacity is indeed available. If that is not the case, sanctions will be imposed on him. Mr Ravyts, the expansion of the Coo plant is fully in line with my energy policy, focusing on the energy transition. We need to guide the switch to renewable energy sources by making the system more flexible, with the new capacity to ensure security of supply after the planned core exit. This concerns new flexible production units for demand management and storage capacity. We will also continue to be able to count on our interconnections. As you yourself say, the enormous development of renewable energy sources offers new opportunities for pumping plants, such as Coo's. Geologically, Belgium does not offer the possibility to develop many such pumping plants, given the space required and the difference in altitude. This means that the potential contribution of these technologies to our energy policy, both in terms of flexibility and security of supply, is almost exhausted. I consider the expansion and optimization that ENGIE is doing in Coo, therefore a very good thing. The tariff measure you are referring to is part of a favourable tariff arrangement introduced by the CREG in its tariff methodology in 2018, in accordance with Article 12 (5) 27 of the Electricity Act. In accordance with the tariff methodology for the transmission network established by the CREG, new storage facilities connected to the transmission network, which are put into service after 1 July 2018, shall benefit from a full exemption from the transmission network tariffs for a period of 10 years after the initial placing in service. The existing storage facilities connected to the transmission network, both installed capacity and stored energy as a result of the expansion works being more than 7,5 % higher than the level set on 1 July 2018, shall benefit from an exemption of 80 % from transmission network tariffs during a period of five years after re-entry after the end of the expansion work. Installations will benefit from the exemption from the end of the first phase of the expansion work. If the entry into service following the second stage of the expansion work does not take place within three years of the date of the decision to apply the exemption, the amount of the exemption already obtained will have to be repaid to the transmission system operator in its entirety. No other energy storage facility has invoked the exemption in the tariff scheme today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u40	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I find it very difficult to follow the way in which this capacity is handled. Thanks to Wayback Machine on the internet, we can see that that capacity is constantly being encrypted. For example, we saw that in a few months' time ENGIE has reduced the power of the installation, first from 1,164 megawatts to 1,080 megawatts as you said, but in the meantime it has further reduced it to 1,071 megawatts. I don't know where we'll end up at the end of the ride, but it looks like the expansion of the installation might bring us back to the initial figure we started with. I find it strange that investments are being made to apparently land where they started. I'll see what we can do about it by other means. The investment itself is, of course, a good thing. One of the objectives of the draft law that was discussed by our committee in 2017 was to create more opportunities in terms of demand flexibility and in terms of storage. This is the result, because in 2019 ENGIE had already announced that it was considering realising that project. That it also performs that is without doubt good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u41	Madam Minister, it is actually a bit funny: through your correct answer, the exclusivity of the dossier has been highlighted, even because of the geological and physical constraints in Belgium. This also reveals the operator as an important actor in the whole story of the energy transition. I cannot get rid of the impression that the amendment of the electricity law in the previous legislature supported this exclusivity. It's like that was a nice deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u42	Mr President, I am glad to be able to put another question to the Minister. I had put in several questions, but I forgot Pentecost Monday. My other questions will certainly be discussed at a next meeting. Madam Minister, this question is a follow-up question in relation to the social rate of heat. In the meantime, I have had the opportunity to look at the opinion of the CREG. There are a number of things that stand out, such as financing through general funds. The percentage is expected to be relatively high, as many social housing companies use or want to use heat. The opinion also refers to automatic allocation and retroactivity from the beginning of this year. Madam Secretary, what is the status of that file? There is still a need for consultation with the sector and with the government itself. What timing do you expect? I am also interested in your views on financing and retroactivity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u43	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, the talks in the government's bosom are progressing well. The issue of social rate heat is very crucial for me, since one in five has trouble paying his bill. We need to look at those invoices, regardless of the energy vector. There's no heat in that today. However, heat is also crucial in the energy transition. It is one of the ways to live up to the European Commission's tagline, 'leave no one behind', make sure no one is left behind. The dialogue with the sector takes place in the same constructive way, in the sense that we have spoken with Edora on the French-speaking side and with the Flemish heat network Ode on the Dutch-speaking side. We also already had conversations with Synergrid, because some DNBs also manage heat networks. Those three organisations have also indicated that they will provide their input in writing. As far as timing is concerned, I can say that we are working as quickly as possible, with skill and urgency. The dossier is quite urgent, but of course it also carries a number of complexities. The sector itself has also made it clear that it needs time to prepare itself for the responsibilities associated with the automatic application of the social tariff. The automatic application is an important aspect in this file. As far as retroactivity is concerned, I cannot answer today. This needs to be looked at together with the financing of the social tariff, and that is what we need to discuss within the government. Of course, we will consult with the Regions. First, we will continue consultations with the sector and put forward proposals to adapt the federal regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u44	Madam Secretary, your approach is the same as mine. It is indeed a crucial part of the transition, hence my question. I understand the complexity of it, but the skillful rush is good. I haven't been much wiser today, but I hear you've already had some conversations with the sector and that you're working on it. I will certainly come back to it in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u45	Mr President, Minister, this is a question in the context of the discussions on federalism, to which you have already referred. European legislation in the field of energy efficiency is mainly laid down in Directive 2012/27, also known as the EED Directive, which sets out the objectives, definitions and basic principles for energy efficiency. In 2018, the Directive was revised by means of Directive 2002/2002. Among other things, these set targets for 2030. A new review at European level may follow soon. On the basis of the EED, Member States should define their national contribution to the European objectives and indicate the measures they intend to take. All this must be described in the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan (NEEAP), which must be submitted to the European Commission every three years. By 2020, a new action plan had to be notified to Europe. The regional plans would be ready by now and would have been submitted in January 2021. Flanders refers to 47 %. Bearing in mind that energy saving is primarily a regional competence and that the Flemish Region is the largest consumer, it is logical that Flanders should make the greatest effort. What is the federal contribution, however? The federal government must apparently contribute 35.37 terrawattures to a total Belgian saving of 185 terrawattures. Can you explain the federal contribution? What are the main lines in this respect? Why did that contribution take so long? What are the main lines of the CREG's latest annual report on the energy efficiency potential of gas and electricity infrastructure? I ask that question further because I didn't find the info right away on the web site? However, I can also be a bad seeker.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u46	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, the 2017 Belgian National Energy Efficiency Action Plan (NEEAP) explicitly recognises that energy saving measures fall within the competence of the Regions and that the federal government can pursue a complementary policy within its limited powers. In the meantime, we no longer have NEEAPs, but we do have a NEEAP. One abbreviation replaces the other. However, your questions relate to the period 2021-2030. We therefore need to look at the National Energy and Climate Plan. For that period, the federal government's contribution to regional policy is reconfirmed. In particular, it stipulates that, within its own powers, the Federal State contributes to the Belgian objective of accompanying measures. The federal government contributes not only to energy saving measures under Article 7 of the Energy Efficiency Directive, but also to other relevant measures, such as the annual rate of renovation of 3% for federal buildings, a sustainable purchasing policy with the objective of 50% sustainable purchases, the greening of the federal fleet, the taxation of sustainable mobility with zero emission commercial vehicles, the mobility budget, product policy, the implementation of the Ecodesign Regulation and the Energy Label Regulation. In July 2020, the previous federal government identified a number of measures to contribute to the Belgian energy saving objective under Article 7. In December, I asked my competent colleagues, in particular the Finance, Mobility and Defence Ministers, to instruct their administration to re-integrate this work with my energy administration. This is almost final. I would like to make a number of points. The contribution to the Belgian objective from the federal powers, as defined in the National Energy and Climate Plan, consists of two components. A first component is federal support policies, whose energy savings have already been included in regional calculations. In other words, the notified regional efforts already include federal efforts. For this reason, we will not register separate federal chips to prevent double counting. A second component is the federal policy measures that have not yet been included in the regional balance sheets. Separate sheets will be drawn up for this purpose, which will still be notified to the European Commission. In addition to making the calculations, which are quite labour-intensive, it is therefore necessary to verify to what extent the savings made are a result of federal policies that have not already been claimed and notified by the Regions, and this to avoid double counting. You are talking about a deficit of about 40 terawatts (TWh) combined against the Belgian target of 185.70 TWh combined. This is a national deficit and not a federal objective. Once the federal measures, which can be placed in separate sheets, have been notified, the competent authorities will have to consider what additional measures can be identified to close the remaining gap. As you rightly point out in your question, the efforts of each entity should be compared with the total energy consumption within that same entity. Flanders has the highest energy consumption. It would therefore be logical for it to make a greater contribution to the overall Belgian objectives. It is therefore important to compare the notified energy savings with the projected total energy consumption in each of the Regions, and also to consider how the already notified efforts approach the annual energy savings target of 0.8 % of the Energy Efficiency Directive for each of the Regions. I repeat that the federal government's commitment is not merely separate measures with separate sheets, but also measures that already count in the regional balance sheets. Then there is the second aspect of your question. If you refer to the last annual report of the CREG, it should be noted that the CREG has confirmed to me that this report does not mention the energy efficiency potential of the gas and electricity infrastructure. Reference is made only in general terms to the European Energy Efficiency Directive. However, it can be argued that the CREG has included incentives in the design of the tariff methodology for both electricity and gas to encourage more efficient and innovative infrastructure management. This translates even for the natural gas network operator into concrete, specific and measurable performance targets for the period 2020-2023, such as reducing the methane emissions from own operations compared to the reference year 2017 by 10% per year and improving the efficiency of its gas boilers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u47	Madam Minister, your answer shows that Flemish Minister Demir has been a bit naughty in communication. That has been going on for some time now, including with regard to Minister Khattabi. I have already said that at some point something naughty was read in the newspaper every day. Much remains to be done, Madam Minister, but thank you for your reply. I'm learning every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u48	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Ben Achor's 55017916C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u49	Madam Minister, the findings of PwC following the comparison between electricity and natural gas prices for different consumers in this country and those in the surrounding countries were communicated. It is clear that there are developments both in the regions and at the federal level. In Flanders, the costs included in the electricity tariffs fall slightly, by 5 euros per megawatt hour. On the federal level they rose slightly and in Wallonia and Brussels they remained about the same. You responded in the press and said that this increase at the federal level is a result of the policy of the previous government, which had actually dared to achieve the offshore wind farms EUR 5 billion cheaper than originally foreseen. You also referred to the resolution which obliges the government to put forward proposals to reduce federal costs. The latter is striking because you have still not implemented part of the agreement. So there is some delay, which goes against what Parliament has asked the government to do. However, I do not rule out the fact that, on the basis of that report, you are taking action more quickly than announced about an hour ago. Madam Minister, will you still not respect Parliament's deadline and will you not therefore come forward with proposals until September or October? Can you give a detailed update of the file? I look forward to your answer, but my hope is limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u50	Madam Minister, for the introduction of this question, I would like to refer to what Mr Wollants said about the research mission of the PwC consultancy office. I would like to return to what Mrs Marghem said about the Committee on Finance and the Budget. I did indeed put the subject of the federal contribution to Mrs De Bleeker, because, of course, there is that report from the CREG. It always refers to the general resources. I have simply told her that there will be a certain amount of budgetary effort in the years to come. Then I referred to the federal multi-annual budget, of course not to this budget change in particular. We know you're working on the affordability, the work on the energy standard. In February and March, you had talks with trade unions, the business community and consumer associations. You also received an opinion from the CREG Advisory Council at the end of April. You have also stressed the need to apply the energy standard to each type of consumer. Politically, this means that it is not just about the business world and the energy-intensive industry. An IKW in September must therefore clarify that matter. Like Mr Wollants, who refers to a joint resolution, I would like to clarify a little bit about the state of play in the preparations for a long-announced energy standard and the reduction of the federal contribution to the electricity bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u51	Mr Wollants, Mr Ravyts, the energy standard is there for all types of consumption and therefore covers many aspects. So it is a dossier that cannot be worked out without thorough preparation. Mr Wollants, you will have more clarity on this very soon. In that connection, remember the timing slide. We held a first round of stakeholder consultations in February and March. These discussions led to the advice given to me by the CREG Advisory Council. It is a descriptive opinion on what the energy standard should include, but of course it is not a ready-made model that can be implemented in this way. This requires a further quantitative analysis, which we are carrying out together with the regulator. This is, of course, done with a continuous review of reality, namely the figures. We need to implement a standard that protects competitiveness and purchasing power and that reduces the federal share of the invoice in proportion to the CRM cost. You are talking about a six-month delay, because the cost of the CRM still had to be recalculated. A standard that is not tailored to the latest assessments is, of course, not the intention. We have all been able to conclude that from the CREG study 2142. Meanwhile, last week we also received the PwC study at the request of FORBEG. The latest messages about purchasing power and competitiveness from this are reflected in the energy standard as best we can. Despite what you seem to say, I am not sitting still and as long as the Belgian large and small consumers have no energy standard, I will not sit still. In any case, I can still confirm that I will submit a proposal at IKW level by September at the latest and that I will go to the Council of Ministers with it in November. That is the timing we have set out for, and I shall stick to it. However, I was pleased to read in the PwC study that Belgian social policy is doing well and can have a major impact on the invoice of vulnerable customers. Now that the target group of those entitled to the social tariff is also being expanded in 2021, I am pleased to see that our policy has an impact where it is most needed today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u52	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You make it sound like you need the exact cost of CRM to launch a number of proposals, as requested in the resolution, but you will not know the total cost of CRM until after the T-1 auction. Let us hope that in September you will not say that I will have to wait for the total cost until 2024; that I will have to be patient until then for the overall mechanism, which will ensure that the total cost will fall compared to the current situation. I'm afraid you're having some delay in this matter. You also say you're not sitting still. However, I am not saying that you are sitting still, I am simply saying that you are working in slow motion, contrary to what we had agreed. If you keep saying that we will look at it again in September and the government will take a few months, when will we get the result? Think also of the announcement by the CREG about the EUR 100 million, which would put one above the hood that we committed together on 2021. Remember that you will have to take a legislative initiative before the end of the year to achieve this. I'd just like to urge you to speed up a little bit. I would very much like to press the fast-forward button so that we can get what this Parliament has voted for to a very large extent. I don't think anyone in the hemisphere was against that timing either, not even you. I would like you to return to your pre-government attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u53	Mr President, it may be surprising, but last year's resolution, I looked at it somewhat as a super-opposition. There is a kind of layering, opposition and super-opposition. Mrs van der Straeten was then in the ordinary opposition and the resolution was written from that point of view. Whether it was really realistic for her when she took over as a minister in October 2020, I do not know. Maybe I'm a little milder in there. Madam Minister, we certainly need to speed up the quantitative analysis of the CREG and the assessment of the current figures, because it seems plausible to me that you need them. The PwC study, discussed in previous committee meetings, is only one element of the story. Each year, this study returns in the month of January, as agreed at the award by the four regulators. It was actually a question based on the Belgian inter-federal energy pact, but everyone seems to have forgotten that. I am therefore looking forward to the results of the inter-kabinette working groups after the summer. It is, of course, a very important aspect of your policy, and you may also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u54	Madam Secretary, on 29 April you met your Norwegian colleague, the Minister for Oil and Energy. You stated that you were discussing renewable energy, while the Norwegian Minister indicated that the discussion was also about carbon capture and storage. It also points out that our country is an interesting partner for Norway, because the closure of nuclear power plants might enable Norway to respond to our increased demand for natural gas. This is not so difficult, given that natural gas is one of Norway's larger export products. What was that conversation about? Who's right? It would be interesting to know where you see cooperation with Norway. There may be options for renewable energy, but also for CCS and gas supplies as a result of increased gas consumption from 2025. Are there any follow-up meetings planned for these issues? What objectives do you pursue in relation to these themes?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u55	Mr Wollants, the agenda for a discussion between the two ministers is, as always, determined in consultation. Both ministers put issues on the agenda. You mentioned the topics we discussed, namely renewable energy, especially offshore wind energy, as well as hydrogen and CCS. Norway has explained that by June it will issue a white paper on the energy transition in Norway, specifically with regard to offshore wind energy. The Norwegians will explain their future wind energy policy and propose their plans for other alternative energy sources. We are very interested in this subject, given that interconnection is important for our country, not only for security of supply, but also for the switch to 100% renewable energy. Our network operator Elia is investigating three projects. Firstly, it concerns the interconnection with Denmark, with which we have concluded an MOU. Secondly, there is an additional interconnection with the United Kingdom, Nautilus, a hybrid interconnection to complement the Nemo Link. Thirdly, an interconnection with Norway is also seen by Elia as an opportunity, but there are internal political considerations in Norway. However, this does not alter the fact that the country has effective ambitions in the field of offshore wind energy and that it can therefore be considered how these can be linked to our own ambitions. Such projects can certainly also be important for Belgian developers and for their own objectives. We also had an exchange of views on hydrogen policy. Belgium and Norway both agree on the importance of hydrogen in the future energy mix, especially against horizon 2050. We both have expertise and potential. Above all, we also see our positioning as intersections in the European energy network as a supply point and distributor of hydrogen through our ports. On the Norwegian side, CCS was introduced, because it wants to make progress in cooperation with the industrial partners in Belgium as part of the Northern Lights project. It is clear that the Norwegian CCS project is looking for commercial viability. In Belgian industry there is a substantial market for the use of CO2 in industrial processes as a base load. This dossier is only marginal with the federal government and is actually very much in the regions. The driving force here comes from industry and ports. Any gas supplies were not discussed. Gas supplies from Norway are covered by the free market operation. Belgium does not have intergovernmental agreements on gas supplies with any country. The contacts I make with different countries, both within and outside the EU, support my policies on various fronts, such as the development of renewable energy and the development of hydrogen. I see it as my role as a policymaker to put Belgium on the map as a country with a clear vision. It is my belief that we can achieve this by working together in Belgium, as well as abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u56	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which already gives a more comprehensive picture of the discussion, which therefore dealt with more than purely renewable energy. That's wise, too. While you were focused on the interconnection with Denmark in previous questions, it is also interesting for us to know that you are now apparently looking at things more broadly and also at interconnection with the United Kingdom and Norway, so that a conscious choice can be made. Last time, I pointed out to you that interconnection with Denmark should be the result of an investigation into whether it is most efficient. I note that, apparently, three possible connections are already being discussed next to each other. I will, of course, follow up on that dossier. How to proceed with hydrogen remains a challenging choice. In the meantime, from different angles, I get legal notes on who is competent for which aspect of hydrogen. That is particularly interesting, but the question is when you can come to Parliament with the dossier on this matter. Of course, that depends on an investigation, which I will raise with another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u57	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Council of Ministers recently approved one of your proposals, allowing citizens, municipalities, associations and SMEs to become co-owners of wind turbines in the North Sea. In practice, in 2023, citizens will be able to regroup in communities and invest together, together with the specialized companies, in offshore wind turbines and thus use this electricity. In the past, several pilot projects had already been carried out on the subject, but the legal framework was lacking. Madam Minister, could you give us an outline of your proposal? What is the legal framework for private co-ownership? Will it be the formation of a company? If so, in what form: cooperative or other? You say that citizens will be able to consume the energy produced by wind turbines in the North Sea and co-finance them. Could you therefore give the status of the dossier relating to the connection to Zeebrugge where electricity from wind turbines arrives?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u58	Mr President, Minister, I would like to endorse this. Wind belongs to all of us and the energy that wind produces should be ours as well. The proposal to amend the Electricity Act, so that energy communities will also be able to participate in offshore wind farms, is good for actively involving citizens in the energy transition. This energy transition not only means decentralisation of the energy system, but also offers citizens, associations, schools and businesses opportunities to play a more active role in the energy market. What is already possible today in the field of civil participation in offshore winds? What change will this new bill make possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u59	In the construction of the existing windmill zones in the North Sea it was already possible for citizens to participate, but that was mainly a financial investment. For example, citizens can already subscribe to Parkwind's shares via North Sea Wind Cooperative. The Dutch manager of investment funds, Meewind, is even co-shareholder of different wind farms of the same group. Becoming co-owner increases the involvement of the Belgians and guarantees that Belgian residents will benefit from the production facilities. When transposing RED II, the second renewable energy directive, I would like to give renewable energy communities, i.e. citizens, SMEs and other organisations, the possibility to become co-owners of the Belgian offshore windmills. Citizens will not only be able to invest financially in the future, but will also have the opportunity to own and manage a piece of the wind farm. I note that there is now more experience in Belgium with co-investment in wind and solar onshore via REScoop and that the time has come to go further. There is sufficient interest to apply this concept to the offshore. It is now up to organisations such as REScoop to organize and prepare to actually realize this property for citizens when we start building the next offhsore wind farms. The wind is everyone's! Why not the same principle for wind-generated electricity? Various projects aim to transport the electricity produced by wind turbines at sea to land and to the interior of the country. The MOG II project, which is an extension of the offshore modular network, aims to develop and build a new offshore network infrastructure to connect new wind farms to the terrestrial network. The exact location of the onshore landing is not yet known. The Ventilus project, which aims, among other things, to transport electricity further onshore, is currently at the stage of the hub review procedure, a procedure that falls under regional jurisdiction. The exact route of Ventilus is not yet known.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Allowing citizens to regroup in communities and invest together in offshore wind turbines is a positive step. It seems to me that such experiences already exist in the form of cooperative societies, particularly with the ECO2050 and North Sea Wind projects. In a context where investment in sustainable energy is essential, such initiatives are welcome. Not only do they offer a financially attractive alternative compared to the traditional savings account, they also allow citizens to be more concretely involved in the energy transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u61	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I agree with what Mr Bombled says about the great opportunities that the energy transition offers for citizens to have or take on a central role. Energy does not have to be the monopoly of the state, as it was years ago, but leaving production in the hands of some mastodons is not really the answer either. Putting the citizen at the centre can be a nice step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u62	Mr President, Minister, in the margins of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, it has been agreed worldwide that the use of highly enriched uranium should be phased out. This is also being done in our country. Part of the highly enriched uranium that our country is currently using is used for medical applications by the IRE in Fleurus. However, the storage of high-enriched residues became a problem there. Recumo, which can purify these remains, is a solution to this. The SCK and IRE found each other in this innovative project, to which you have just referred. The IRE is also fully engaged in the production of low-enriched uranium medical radioisotopes. In April 2020, for the first time, it succeeded in producing molybdenum-99 with low-enriched uranium. By 2022, it would like to switch production completely. As of 2022, therefore, no high-enriched uranium will be used in the IRE. However, the subsidy of Recumo is planned until 2045. Madam Secretary, these elements bring me to the following questions. Where is the IRE going with the conversion to low-enriched uranium-based production? Will the deadline be met in 2022? When will Recumo be able to go into production? How long will the processing of the highly enriched uranium of the IRE at Recumo take? How many additional jobs will this project create?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u63	Mr President, Mrs Buyst, this is indeed a very good example of how our nuclear institutions can work together to solve problems that arise. The highly enriched uranium irradiated targets used in the production of medical radioisotopes, mainly molybdenum-99, provide residues in which the highly enriched uranium remains. These residues were stored at the IRE, but their storage capacity was limited. Instead of disposing of these residues as waste, a partnership was concluded between the SCK and the IRE. The residues will thus be disposed of to the SCK, where the uranium is diluted to low-enriched uranium, which is subsequently purified, so that it can be used for other uses, for example in the SCK. The SCK worked out the Recumo project for this purpose. A licence was applied for and there was a public investigation in March and April. Subject to authorisation and approval by the FANC and the other authorities concerned, Recumo will be able to go into production in the fourth quarter of 2024. The Recumo plant will then process the highly enriched residues of the IRE until 2032. Since 30 April 2020, the IRE has produced about a quarter of its production of molybdenum-99 from low-enriched uranium. At the beginning of 2022, half of the IRE production will come from low-enriched uranium. The share is expected to increase in the course of 2022, depending on the customer's ability to accept iodine-131 produced from this process. Full conversion, which will stop the use of highly enriched uranium, is expected in the last quarter of 2022, provided of course that it is approved by the FANC. Meanwhile, a technology is also used to produce molybdenum-99 without the use of uranium. That is the SMART project, one of the projects we discussed earlier today. After 2032, the Recumo plant will be used to process and purify the low-enriched IRE residues for use in other applications, of course subject to authorisation and approval by the FANC and by the other authorities concerned. The use of the Recumo plant for materials from other producers is currently not foreseen. The project will lead to an additional employment of 50 people during the construction phase and of a dozen people during the operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic485x.u64	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. Contrary to what some seemed to insinuate, our group considers it very important that partnerships be concluded, such as the Recumo project. This is a good example of how Belgium can continue to play its pioneering role in nuclear medicine. It is crucial for the sector to switch to low-enriched uranium. This has already been agreed within the framework of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. It is good that we will be able to contribute to this by 2022. Personally, I am also pleased with the additional employment that can be created in a region such as the Kempen.
