ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u2	Madam President, I would like to ask for the floor for an order motion. You know me as a defender of Parliament's rights and of Parliament's control function. We will have a debate on the Commissioner for Government, Mrs Haouach, and I do not want to break into it. Several questions will be asked about this later. I see that the answers will be given by the Prime Minister and by Mrs Schlitz, as politically responsible. We have not been able to speak to the person concerned in Parliament, because one of our proposals has been rejected. Following the establishment of the agenda yesterday at the Conference of Presidents, a new event has taken place. While the government Commissioner did not have to appear on the committee because we did not find a majority for that in the committee, she did make a statement on Facebook on the matter. Now I do not miss the value of Facebook, but of course that is not a parliamentary debate. We regret that method. This has also been said by ministers in the past few hours. In these new circumstances, we want to insist - and I shall submit an order motion to that effect - that the Chamber should give its opinion on the matter in order to call on the chairman of the Health Committee to hold a meeting next week on this matter. We cannot replace the committee, but as a Chamber we can address the chairman of the Health Committee with an explicit request that he convene a meeting of that committee without delay, as soon as possible, where the government Commissioner can be directly questioned by the MPs so that we can exercise our right of control. I am quite free to give you an order motion in this respect, in the hope that we all agree that we can exercise our normal parliamentary right of control as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u3	Mr De Roover, we will be discussing your request shortly after the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u4	Madam President, initially, the most interesting thing is to hear from the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State about their reaction to the public statements made by the Commissioner at the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. However, I hear the request of my colleagues at the N-VA to be able to hear the main interested party. This request is entirely legitimate and my group had also thought about it. But on the basis of the responses that will be given by the various members of the government on this subject, I think, however, that we could also support this request on our own point of order. Thus, we would have a calm and constructive debate on this issue. That is why I am also raising a point of order on behalf of my DeFI Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u5	That is one more reason for us to look at the subject after the current issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to surprise you, because I have no problem with Islam if it is experienced 6,000 kilometres from here. What impact does it have on our democratic values that 6,000 kilometres from here people choose Sharia? None. But do you know who does have a negative impact on our democratic values? You, the haute finance that has for decades imported guest workers from Morocco and Turkey, just for financial gain, without thinking of the many social problems that that would cause. After all, these problems are only for the public, for the rabble. That is not a problem when you live in the chic villas, far from all those imported strangers. But also the left-wing parties are guilty here. You will continue to import a mass of migrants to this day, so that they would vote for you. Did you think that these guest workers would simply forget their backgrounds, that the masses of migrants would simply forget their religious beliefs and continue to vote for you, without asking for anything in return? Of course not! If Ihsane Haouach says that the democratic values of this country must evolve as the number of Muslims in Belgium increases, and that Muslims must organise themselves to exert pressure on the political institutions, then it makes no mistake. She's just doing what's expected of a pious moslima. It is you who have made mistakes by en masse bringing these people here and then overloading them with political posts in exchange for votes. Mr De Croo, someone who does not respect our democracy and our freedoms should not be appointed government commissioner. So it is primarily up to you to acknowledge your mistake and fire Ihsane Haouach. Secondly, you must also think carefully and listen to Mrs Haouach. What she said is true. The population has a huge impact on our democracy and our freedoms. Those who continue to deny it are very naive and even malicious.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u7	Madam President, Prime Minister, Secretary of State, let us return to the subject without perverting it. The interview given to the newspaper Le Soir on July 3, by the government commissioner to the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, turned our questions into serious concerns, and sometimes, into a real surprise. We are concerned when your government commissioner, Madam Secretary of State, subverts the very meaning of neutrality by wearing the veil within the Institute where she carries out an office that the Council of State considered resolutely in 2013 as a public service. We are concerned when your representative is trampling on his duty as a reserve by spreading polemic and militant comments in the press. We are astonished when your Commissioner claims that the ban on the wearing of beliefal signs in administrations is discriminatory, thus contradicting the Constitutional Court. We are astonished when your representative adds that the principle of separation of the Church and the State should be set down in the light of demographic change, thus giving a relative value to one of the founding principles of the rule of law, which guarantees precisely freedom of conscience, freedom of worship, freedom to believe or not to believe. Finally, we are astonished when your Commissioner hacks into an interview previously given under the auspices of an organization, removing the most violently communitarian passages. Madam Secretary of State, it is high time – it seems to me – to get together again. A reminder to the order of your Commissioner is essential, as is a clear and unambiguous reaffirmation of your commitment to the values of freedom and the fundamental rights that characterize a democratic State. I will hear you with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u8	Prime Minister, Madam Secretary of State, like my colleagues, I read very carefully your government commissioner's interview with the Institute for Equality between Women and Men last weekend in the newspaper Le Soir, in which she presented her ideas directly related to her function, ideas that are problematic. Which ones? First, the prohibition of belief in the public service would be discriminatory in nature. It is a militant opinion that denies the virtue of public service neutrality, that is to offer the guarantee of equal treatment among all the citizens. Secondly, the separation of the State and the Church should be possible according to demographic changes. We could thus have a neutrality with varying geometry according to the religious demands of each other or under the effect of power relations. Who can believe in social peace for a moment if it is the strength of the number that finally prevails? Thirdly, women who are now under pressure because they do not want to wear the veil or because they want to remove it would be very minority because there is very little talk about it. The Commissioner for Gender Equality thus minimizes the victims of patriarchy when she has a duty to protect them just as much as the others. It must also ensure the release of their word and their emancipation. Does Haouach retain your confidence after her public statements? Do they reflect the government's position on the principle of neutrality? Will you adopt a code of ethics that would be binding on all members of the government, but also on its delegates as to the neutrality of acts and appearances? In what way can you assure us today that Mrs Haouach will ensure that the rights of all women are respected without exception? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u9	Prime Minister, Madam Secretary of State, let us not be mistaken: today it is a debate of principle that we are trying to have with the government, a debate on the principles of democracy, the fundamental principles that govern our rules of life in society. It happens that this concerns a person who has just been appointed as Government Commissioner to the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. The question is not whether or not to accept her opinions: she can have the opinions she wants. The question is whether these opinions are consistent with the function in which she was appointed. And it must be noted that her words, her attitudes of the past are so problematic that she herself has, today, wanted to correct them, to change them, to make up them. Indeed, a year ago, in a report on the European Muslim Women's Forum, she had very specific comments, since she called for the constitution of a Muslim lobby, since she was flouting Muslims who did not vote enough for people who would defend their rights in society. It could have been believed that she was talking about social rights, the right to housing or the right to work, but no, the rights were summarized in the headscarf, the veil, the course of religion and the ritual slaughter. It is therefore difficult to imagine a more community-based approach to society. I ask you, Prime Minister, the Secretary of State: is this your view of life in society? Is this community vision your conception of defending equality between women and men? Are you going to draw this society, ours, which for so many years, so many decades, has been fighting for a model of integration in which everyone is a citizen in equal shares, towards a communalist evolution, in which communities confront each other in a fragmented vision, an antagonistic vision of society? Is that your model of society, is that what you are going to impose on Belgium from now on?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u10	Madam President, Prime Minister, it is said that the idea of demography reaching a turning point is to introduce enough voters to push through his political ideas. In German it is called Umvolkung. Freedoms and achievements are then determined in function of the new dominant group. If I have to read today that your government commissioner apparently supports this theory, and still pleads for a review of our constitutional separation between Church and State, then the veils should fall in front of your government. Mrs Haouach is a government Commissioner for the Institute for Equality between Women and Men (IVGM). So she is supposed to be neutral, but in essence she turns out to be a real activist who misuses her function to press her own political views and her own Islamic beliefs with her public office. Mrs. Haouach is not ready for her test piece. She runs from one incident to another. On the Muslim women's forum, she argued in favour of forming a political Islamic lobby. She founded Bruxelloise et voilée to promote the headscarf, the symbol of the oppression of women. Your liberal example, Professor Etienne Vermeersch, once said that whoever wears the headscarf represents the Koran and the Sharia and is absolutely not neutral in public office. Apparently, she is now questioning the separation between Church and State. Prime Minister, her resume might be made of concrete, her neutrality is made of cardboard. There's only one solution: forward her. Will you do that, yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u11	Prime Minister, Minister, the Commissioner for Government announced last night that she did not wish to question the principle of separation between Church and State and equal treatment between citizens. As a group, we take note of that position, and that is the only right position. And yes, she probably didn't mean for this to happen. And yes, she's also been unnecessarily provoked. But yes, and she acknowledged that, she communicated clumsyly. From a government commissioner, from any institution, we expect restraint and caution in public communication. Colleagues, there must be room for religious experience, private and public. As there should be room for the exercise of other rights and freedoms. These rights and freedoms must also be balanced and respect each other. Anyone who has the right to such rights and freedoms cannot escape the rules which the State imposes on him or her. Everyone has the right to, but also the duty to, equal treatment. Rightly so, there is a demographic challenge, but it is not adapting our standards and values to that demographic evolution. The challenge is how to keep all people together in this increasingly diverse society. This presupposes consultation, reciprocity, respect for the standards and values that we have in our society for centuries. In polarized times, Prime Minister, it is the mission of the government and its representatives to bring these people together and keep them together. My question to you is: how do we achieve this coherence and how can we prevent communication from compromising that coherence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u12	Mr Prime Minister, a few weeks ago I questioned you about Ihsane Haouach and today I am standing here again, this time because of her remarks. I quote: "The discussion is not we question the separation of Church and State, it is how you rhyme it with a change in demography." In other words, Mrs Haouach believes that the principle of neutrality should be adapted to the rules of Islam. I was hoping for a strong signal from the government, but what I read in the press this morning doesn't give me much hope. After a Facebook message from Mrs Haouach indicating that she may have expressed herself somewhat unhappy, everything seems forgotten and forgiven. I'm not going along with that. In another interview for the European Forum of Muslim Women she made a few harsh statements, in which she hopes to achieve more Islamic rules through politics. Prime Minister, it is a first in our country's history: a government commissioner who openly promotes an ideology that runs counter to everything that our liberal democracy stands for. I am looking at all the government parties to finally give a strong signal. Prime Minister, do you think Mrs Haouach's attitude is still compatible with her duties? I expect a clear signal from you. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u13	Prime Minister, Secretary of State, a diverse society with different cultures and communities to live together means efforts for everyone to make this a success story. That's not obvious. In our country we have known a number of principles for almost two hundred years and they allow us to live together in a diverse society. These are constitutionally anchored principles, such as the separation of Church and State, the neutrality of government, neutral officials. They are fundamental principles for us that are important for us to be able to live together in a diverse society. Of course, there is also the individual choice of every citizen to be who he wants to be, to have the faith he wants to have, to have the culture he wants to have. In the public forum, there is, of course, a tension between the two at some point. That is worth a proper social debate. It is worth a fundamental debate that we must have in order to enable this diverse society. That debate sometimes deserves better than what I have seen in recent weeks from one side to the other. That deserves a proper debate in this hemisphere. Mr De Roover is right that we should be able to do this in this hemisphere. However, I also read the interview of the government commissioner in Le Soir this weekend. It gives the impression that certain principles should be adapted to demographic change. That is where I want a clear position from the government. The Liberals cannot, of course, accept that. The constitutional principles must remain. If we interfere with this, a diverse society is not possible either. We must therefore ensure that these principles are preserved. Can you confirm that the government's position is also that we will guard those borders? In view of the fuss, has it been agreed with Mrs Haouach to avoid this sort of thing in the future? Of course, this cannot happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u14	Madam President, Prime Minister, Secretary of State, today's debate should be a fundamental debate and not a debate around a person. The Government Commissioner to the Institute for Gender Equality clarified her remarks yesterday and, above all, that is what we are interested in here, the government has made it clear that she spoke in her personal capacity. Of which act. This should allow us to put ourselves back in a genuine debate of ideas, a debate on freedoms, our freedoms, a debate that calls for collective reflection with respect for democratic values. And I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a moral obligation to compel ourselves to have a debate on values. We cannot accept that fundamental principles, such as freedoms, secularism, impartiality of the State, separation of the Church and the State, inclusive neutrality or not, are diverted and mobilized to serve extremes, to serve political interests, to serve causes that do not respect fundamental rights, to stigmatize groups of people because of their faith, skin colour or sexual orientation. A debate of this importance cannot be held on Twitter. This is certainly not our conception of democratic debate. Turning to the interview with the Commissioner of the Government, I would like to know, Madam Secretary of State, how you perceive her statements. What operational framework do you intend to remind him, remembering that his main task is to carry out the tasks entrusted to him by the law in accordance with the general principle of impartiality of the State?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u15	Prime Minister, Secretary of State, this weekend, Haouach, the government commissioner at the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, spoke after several weeks of unrest in the press and on social media, as well as after a difficult meeting of the Institute's Board of Directors, which made a lot of noise. During these agitated weeks, Mrs Haouach's legitimacy was widely debated and often questioned, because she was wearing a scarf. In this context, Prime Minister, you recalled here that Mrs Haouach had been selected for her professional profile and because of her CV - I quote - "concrete". However, by speaking this weekend in the press, she made a remark that strongly challenged us, stating that the principle of separation between the Church and the State could be changed according to demographics. Such reasoning is obviously not acceptable to us. I would like to take this opportunity to recall that environmentalists consider the separation of churches and the state to be one of the founding principles of our democracy. Without it, individual freedom is impossible, as is equality between citizens. It is truly essential to stress this and to remember that these struggles for freedoms, for emancipation, for equality are at the heart of environmental struggles. Including in some difficult cases, I think our line has always been very clear in the House. It was also important to recall that, for us, each of these struggles must obviously be clearly distracted from all religious conservatism. Since then, Mrs Haouach has made her remarks clear - and that's very good! Nevertheless, it seems essential to me, Prime Minister and Secretary of State, to hear you speak today about your position on this founding concept of our individual freedoms and our fight for equality and emancipation, namely that of the separation of churches and the state. I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions in an important debate on a fundamental issue, namely the separation of Church and State. I have three elements of response in that broad debate. Firstly, the separation between Church and State in our country is fundamental. There can be no doubt about that. Mr Dallemagne, as you said, this is a debate of principle. What binds us as Belgians is not an entirely made-up conception of what is good or even less a religious interpretation, for example, in relation to that. What really binds us in our country is our citizenship rooted in a Constitution: the social contract between us, to which all Belgians must adhere. Our Constitution is very clear: equality between men and women is established in Article 11a. The Institute for Gender Equality plays an important role in this area. Moreover, in addition to freedom of worship, our Constitution also anchors the separation between Church and State. That is a fundamental principle. In our country, you have the right and the freedom to practice religion or belief in the way you wish. Whether you are unbelieving, liberal, atheist or agnostic, you have every freedom in it. You have the freedom to do so within the limits of the law. Religious or philosophical regulations cannot lead in any way to the law. These basic democratic values do not tolerate any relativism. It is precisely these basic values that enable us to be a society in all its diversity, in which we can live together in a peaceful way, regardless of one's origin, regardless of one's ideas and regardless of one's philosophical or religious way of looking at life. This diversity has always characterized our country and is particularly dear to us. I also refer in this connection to the joint statement of the representatives of the cults and secularism of 13 June 2018 in which they explicitly confirm together: "The separation of the Church and the State, the primacy of the rule of law over religious law are unalterable values over which we cannot compromise." Let it be clear, the government renounces any suggestion that it should be reviewed. There is no place for relativism in this domain. I would like to make a second point. It is clear that fundamental rights are under pressure in the broad sense. We must not close our eyes to that. There is not only a discussion about the separation of church and state, it is also about other fundamental rights, about LGBTIs and combating discrimination. I hope that everyone who has spoken here today about the protection of fundamental rights also understands that these fundamental rights form a whole. It is not a question of pick and choose in our Constitution, to decide what is important or not. I hope that everyone who stood here understands that they are all equally important and that they cannot be made into a 3 Suisses catalogue. Our Constitution is comprehensive, our social contract with the whole of fundamental rights that we all need to protect and strengthen together. Finally, I would like to talk about the importance of serenity. With regard specifically to the task and mission of a Commissioner of Government, allow me to draw this red line. The Code of Ethics for Public Agents is very clear: a commissioner of government must exercise his role without fuelling any prejudice or stereotype either in one direction or in another direction. Impartiality is an essential part of this. The government will therefore not accept any violation of impartiality. This means that last weekend's passage cannot be repeated. There is no room for new incidents or new controversy in that domain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u17	Madam President, representatives of the people, I am pleased with the statements made in Mrs Haouach's Saturday interview. I quote: "I never wanted to question the principle of the separation of churches and the state or the application of this principle. This principle is a foundation of our democracy in the same way as freedom of conscience, the equality of citizens before the law and the neutrality of the State. These principles are the shields of our freedoms." Mrs Haouach clearly and rightly confirms that there is no doubt about the separation between Church and State. It goes without saying that my vision, as a member of the government, is to enshrine my work in the respect of the founding principles of the State, and in the defence of fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. This has always been the case and will always be the case. Mrs Haouach assured me during a conversation that this also applies to her. Ms. Haouach's interview took place in her personal capacity. As Secretary of State, I assess the Commissioner of the Government on the basis of her mission of attending with an advisory voice at the meetings of the Board of Directors and bringing an appeal against decisions that would be contrary to the statutes, the law or the general interest. It has been said earlier that "Ms. Haouach has a concrete resume". His skills have already been demonstrated on several occasions at Board meetings, before and during this controversy. I hope that we can now move on to the post-controversy period. A call for serenity and constructive work was addressed to all members of the Board of Directors. I wish to reiterate this call here before you. Mrs Haouach's quote was unfortunate, but has been sufficiently clarified for me. She has stressed that she no longer wishes to give public statements. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I understand why Mrs Haouach wanted to respond after weeks of attacks on and insinuations around her person. I am also deeply concerned about this political climate, which seems to exclude some citizens from society, who have the money to justify themselves more or have an automatic suspicion on them. I guarantee that I will continue to defend the rights and freedoms of every person, every woman regardless of what she wants to wear or does not want to wear. Human rights are not à la carte according to our political orientations or according to the options we prefer to support. Living together requires an unconditional defence of all rights, every day, and that is what I am committed to here today. I remain convinced that in order to work on the real social problems, it is not always useful to be the most present in the newspapers or the most noisy on Twitter. Making every debate a piece of shit isn't good for anything. I will end by repeating to you, dear Members of Parliament and dear Members of Parliament, that the separation of churches and the state is not negotiable and will never be. Bearing this in mind, I invite you to put us back to work to build a more just and supportive society. Thank you! Merci!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u18	Prime Minister, have you ever heard of the concept of takiyyah? I can only advise you to look up a few things about it. Mrs Ihsane Haouach is a very sensible woman, which is confirmed by her academic nobility letters. She is well aware of what she says when she says that Muslims must join forces to put pressure on our political institutions and our democratic values. She is well aware of what she says when she says that demographics can bring about changes in our freedoms and our democratic values and must evolve along with population change and demographic evolution. Mr Prime Minister, Madam Secretary of State, who do you think would fool if you said here that Mrs Haouach didn't mean to, that there was clumsy communication and that she shouldn't do it again? She may think it and she may carry it out, rather than say it again in the press, otherwise you may find yourself in trouble here. At least Mrs. Haouach is honest, she's coming out of what she's standing for. You do not, Prime Minister. The only thing you're doing is breaking even more of our freedoms by locking people up against this Islamization in prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u19	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Madam Secretary of State, I take note of the denials of the Commissioner of the Government, who therefore did not say what she did not mean. However, I would like to stress that these fundamental principles and freedoms are non-negotiable for us. There is no renunciation possible. There is no room for accommodation in relation to these fundamental principles because of them our freedoms, applicable to everyone, in our society. This is what makes it possible to "make society": when we share a foundation of common values that we defend. I would like to warn against any deviation from this principle and to tell you that sometimes we feel very alone, especially in relation to those who have generally defended these fundamental values with us. I therefore call on everyone to take stock of the seriousness of this situation and to ensure that, together, we defend, in the future, a society of solidarity, of course, but which respects the rights and freedoms of each of its members.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, I must tell you that your answer is extremely disappointing. First of all, you still do not recognize that Mrs Haouach represents the government from the moment she represents you at the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. It is precisely in this respect that it must respect the principle of State neutrality. Rather than convince her of this need, what do you say today? You say that she spoke in her personal capacity on matters directly related to her position, and that from now on she will no longer make a public statement. Then you tell us that the doubt about his statements, whether or not he is committed to the principle of neutrality, has now been dispelled by his statement yesterday on Facebook. Forgive me, but the Commissioner has not yet clarified what she has said about the principle of neutrality and secularism, that is, fundamentalism. In addition, she also said that she regretted the absence, today, of a political lobby that would be able to put pressure on measures that go precisely towards neutrality but also towards the mix between men and women. There are two things to remember, Madam Secretary of State. First, neutrality is essential and that is why we will continue to submit our text for the inclusion of the secularism of the State in the Constitution. Secondly, the Commissioner must explain herself not on Facebook but to parliamentarians. That is precisely why we have tabled a point of order to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u21	Prime Minister, you have referred to the social contract, to citizenship, to the Constitution. You have indeed referred to this fundamental debate in principle. We are at a crossroads today on the model of society that we want to build together in a diverse society where everyone is a responsible citizen with equal rights. I cannot content myself with your answer, Madam Secretary of State. You sent a yellow card. You said it was the last time. I wish you'd sent me a red card. You talk all the time about a concrete curriculum vitae, but the question is not the professional quality of this lady. The question is that already in 2017, it was blaming the Court of Justice of the European Union because it allowed the ban on veils in companies. It also contradicted the Constitutional Court. She wanted to change the words they had said because they were compromising on her job today. I do not think she has a place as Commissioner of Government at the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. Women and men deserve better government control over the Institute's functions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u22	Madam Secretary of State, I do not know if you can read Dutch, but here is something wonderful, which applies to you and your government commissioner. It says here, "With the headscarf on the barricade." Do you see it? Can you read it? I will translate that in due course. I'm reading something interesting in there. Mr Bouchez of the MR, whom I found the last man standing in the liberal world, states: "Mrs Haouach remains a mockery of the neutrality of the State and is not in her place." I didn't hear that from you guys. That's my opinion, too. I believe that even her excuses cannot be accepted and not just because of the taqiya, which means that a Islam believer may save his own skin and lie to unbelievers. Her apologies cannot be accepted either because of recidivism. It's not the first accident. It's a pile-up of accidents. I won't talk about the policy of apartheid and bathing seasons. It is the announcement of a new catastrophe. Madam Secretary, if you want to save your own skin, sacrifice your government commissioner. That would be very sensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u23	Prime Minister, you say that passages as published in the newspaper should no longer be repeated. However, they reflect her real vision, regardless of whether she says it or not. A government commissioner in office who openly promotes an ideology is at odds with everything that our liberal democracy stands for. Today you are sending a very dangerous signal to our people and to our future generations. I speak from experience. Our offspring will judge you. I'll never accept it. The N-VA will never accept it. Neutrality must be demonstrated by its appearance. Either she takes off her headscarf during the performance of her duties, or we ask her to resign. Punt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u24	Prime Minister, Secretary of State, the reaffirmation of fundamental values as unalterable is important. The reminder that fundamental rights are universal rights and that they leave no room for discrimination, whatever the engine, is also very important. Having said that, I would remind you that we are tabling a text that will require a major public debate on the revision of the Constitution. This debate should be conducted calmly on the basis of the founding character of values. Some rightly recalled the importance of never compromising the defence of our individual freedoms. I stress that it is a shame to have had to see that the same people were not at the meeting when we were defending equal rights for same-sex couples, the universality of fundamental values.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u25	Prime Minister, Madam Secretary of State, it was important for us today to hear you reaffirm the fundamental principle of separation between churches and the state, your commitment to our individual freedoms and absolute equality among all citizens. It was important, you did it unambiguously and I thank you for that. However, I would like to point out that I regret some of the comments made here today but also earlier on social networks, in particular the personal attacks on the Commissioner since the first day. We do politics here and not pujadism against people. I would remind you that while the debate on secularism, on the separation of the state and the churches, on individual freedom is fundamental, it must be done without any bad faith, any political game and any overbidding, which have animated it for too long in recent weeks. Several colleagues have said today that we are calling for a return of serenity – as you have said, Prime Minister and Secretary of State – and that is how we will defend our individual freedoms and equality. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u26	Madam President, Minister, today I wanted to take up a question which has been raised many times, including by my colleagues Catherine Fonck and Georges Dallemagne, but which is becoming particularly important as vaccination increases and the share of our fellow citizens who are double or simply vaccinated is actually at a significant rate. We must also be able to greet him, including from the opposition benches. However, the concern is now gaining in those same professions that we have rightly applauded, which deserve, just as legitimately, to continue to be supported and valued, i.e. the nursing staff of institutions for the care of the elderly and the disabled or acting in a hospital setting. More than in other professions, there is a fairly large proportion of reluctance among caregivers, at the very least challenging. Indeed, how can we convince the last resistors to accept vaccination for themselves and for the community, so that life can resume in all its facets, when those who are on the front line and who are active in the medical sector bear witness to their greatest reserves? This means that today we are not talking about policies in this regard, but about scientists, infectious scientists, epidemiologists, biologists... saying that the debate may have to open on the issue of making vaccination mandatory for these personnel who are in the front line, with an audience that, usually because they frequent them, is itself more fragile. Some even claim - but I am not competent to judge the validity of this statement - that this vaccine would be the safest in history, to repeat what has been said recently in the press. I wanted to know your intention to make sure, not that the principle was trampled on....
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u27	Mr Minister, obviously Belgium will not be a European football champion - it's a shame, but that's how it is - but perhaps it will be a world champion in vaccination. In this context, it was worthwhile, first of all, to congratulate you and also to thank all the people who contributed to this significant part of success for Belgium. Today, 80% of adults received their first injection. The operation is continuing. Nevertheless, caution should be exercised. Indeed, we see the reappearance of variants. In addition, some time has already elapsed between the first doses administered at the end of 2020 and last January, sometimes massively, in the institutions. I think, of course, of the older people. We know with certainty that this vaccination fades over time. Hence some concerns. Mr Minister, in view of these considerations and given the legitimate prudence that we must express in this context, I would have liked to know whether, at the interdepartmental conference, you had already mentioned the possibility of a supplementary vaccination, perhaps a third, and protocols that would significantly increase the immunity of people who have already been vaccinated. Could you tell us more about this? This issue is already being addressed by the governments of some neighbouring countries. I am thinking of France and the United Kingdom. It would therefore be very interesting to know whether this issue was addressed within the government and, of course, the regional executive. Do you have sufficient stock? Do you integrate any new procedures by involving general practitioners more significantly? [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to address Mr Prévot. Despite the success of our vaccination campaign, it is true that the rate of vaccination in different care facilities is much lower than it should be. It's a serious problem. The personal choice to be vaccinated or not is an important value, but if this choice implies that a care facility can no longer guarantee a sufficient level of protection, then we have a serious problem for patient safety. I have therefore proposed to my colleagues, the Ministers of Health of the federated entities, to develop a tangible, concrete and ambitious action plan, a joint action plan of the Interministerial Conference on Public Health in close collaboration with professional associations, the various cupola organisations and the social partners. A crucial step in such a common action plan is transparency on the vaccination rate of care workers in each care institution, nursing home, hospital, and sector. I will therefore propose to publish vaccination rates for all individual institutions. Thus, the public can learn about it. For if you entrust an elderly person, such as your father or mother, to a nursing home, you have the right to know how many staff members are vaccinated or not. I have the right that the public has the right to this transparency. The same applies, of course, to hospitals and, mutatis mutandis, it will also be necessary to work on the sectors. I will propose a joint action plan in close collaboration and consultation with all actors on the ground. It will be a plan of the interdepartmental conference. In response to Mr. Scourneau's question, it is true that a booster vaccination phase could potentially begin before the end of this year, at least for people at risk. However, studies are still under way to assess the need for a third injection. It is still possible that the immunity of a complete vaccination schedule will last long enough to make this third injection superfluous in the short term. The findings of this study are expected by September or October at the earliest. There is no evidence at this stage to determine whether vaccines available in their current composition could be used for this purpose or whether new formulations will need to be developed to counter new variants of the virus. Pharmaceutical laboratories, including Pfizer&BioNTech, are currently developing vaccines with adapted compositions. Taking into account this information known at this stage and the size of the population and target group to be vaccinated and the characteristics of the next generation of vaccines, the task force has drafted a blueprint to prepare for the additional phases of vaccination. This paper explores avenues for organizing subsequent phases of covid-19 vaccination. This study paper is very extensive. Since my time here is limited, I can tell you that this document has been published. It is downloadable on infocoronavirus.be in the category of reviews of the task force, site on which you can consult the very detailed blueprint that we already have available to prepare a third injection and subsequent phases of vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm going to be honest with you, the words you've just made are a strong and new announcement. By making the decision to create a mechanism for the publication of staff vaccination rates in health care institutions and bringing this rate to the general public, you will generate an induced effect, as is sometimes known at the university level, with a Ranking that induces the feeling that some institutions would take more seriously than others this problem of vaccinated personnel to treat the patientel probably at risk. This is probably a way to avoid making vaccination compulsory at this stage and to be able at the same time to ensure that each institution also assumes the factual situation allowing each of the patients to be cared for or not knowingly. I'll keep an eye on how you plan to operationalize things. Sometimes there is a lot of goodwill in the directions of (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answers. They are an extension of my esteemed colleague's question. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the dates you are planning for the eventual reorganization may be somewhat late given that the vaccination centres have already announced their closure. Perhaps it would be unfortunate, because of foreclosure, to find ourselves in a situation – and above all out of respect for all those people who have invested in these vaccination centres – where one could no longer intervene with the same logistical support. I imagine that under these circumstances, general practitioners will have a more important role to play. We'll pay attention to it. You have the confidence of our group to find the most appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u31	Minister, from 13 August the CST will enter into force, better known as the Covid Safe Ticket. It only applies to mass events from 5,000 visitors, so for example for mega festivals like Pukkelpop. This means that each person present has a covid safe passport or has a PCR test or a quick test. So someone who hasn't been tested doesn't get in, it can't be safer. However, we remain left with an important question. Why is this temporary measure not applied at the same time for the entire cultural, sports and youth sector, including concerts in our smaller concert halls, our churches and cathedrals, our opera houses, our sports halls and youth homes? The fear is that the deltavirus will postpone new political decisions in favour of cultural experience, sport and youth. However, the Covid Safe Ticket offers the solution. Even now festivals, concerts and other events are likely to be cancelled in the autumn, simply because of the lasting uncertainty. The sector is still bleeding, you know that. What solution does the government offer in the short term, especially before the summer recess for one of our most affected sectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u32	To begin with, I would like to reiterate that the Covid Safe Ticket is an application that will interpret naked data, without a doubt, on the European corona certificate in the light of our own Belgian rules to give access to major events. Technically this Covid Safe Ticket is already ready this week, but also a good legal basis is needed to use it. That presupposes a cooperation agreement. That cooperation agreement will be presented here and debated, as will all the other parliaments of all the sub-entities of this country. For the sake of clarity, Mr Briers, it is not the case that the sport sector is excluded from this. The consultation committee's intention, on the basis of which the cooperation agreement will be submitted to the parliaments, is to use the Covid Safe Ticket for access to mass events with more than 5,000 participants from 13 August, but we also want to make it possible as a test, as an experiment for smaller events. It will therefore not only be possible for events with more than 5,000 participants. As an experiment we will also create the possibility to do this for smaller events. It is a misunderstanding that this does not apply to sporting events. A football match in a large stadium with more than 5,000 visitors is also included in this definition. I agree with you that the Covid Safe Ticket at this time of great uncertainty about what awaits us is the perfect instrument for organising our freedom. It is the perfect tool to protect ourselves and also to give opportunities to the event sector. Then I'm also talking about events in sport, culture and relaxation. Of course, I have to work within the political support I can create for this. You know that there are different views on this. In the current state of affairs, this is preferred for large events. I follow your view that this would be very good for a lot of events, but that is the subject of a political debate. I would like to point out that we really cannot use this instrument if there is no proper legal framework, because it is about sensitive personal data. That framework requires parliamentary work. Madam President, I am addressing this Assembly, but also all the other assemblies in this country. We cannot wait until 13 August for this cooperation agreement. We need to get that sooner. If we want to give the smaller events the opportunity to use this as test or practice, then the cooperation agreement should be ready by the end of July. This will undoubtedly require a great deal of parliamentary debate and work in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u33	Minister, your speaking time was over, but come on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. I know that you, the Prime Minister and our Minister for the Interior, each time by virtue of his or her duties, are in favour of relaxation, and support a measure which applies not only to large mass events, but also to small cultural, sports and other events. I also know that one or two parties in our coalition are not directly in favour of this temporary measure. In the past month, these parties have passionately defended the interests of the artist. Now is the time to show even stronger that you are really behind the artists, sportsmen and young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u35	Madam Secretary, I've been to various actions of postal people in the last month. Both in Huizingen and in Kortenberg the employees have stopped because of too high a workload. The job's too heavy. I've heard stories about Rudi, among other things, who has to work 11 hours a day and has only been paid 7.36 hours. We just figured out how much he's making per hour. That's less than nine euros an hour. This week we read in the newspaper that the ex-CEO, Mr Van Avermaet, gets 5.5 million in cash, not in consumer cheques, while people are working their asses off. While the mailmen are dragging mail bags, the CEOs are filling their pockets with money. We know from the time of appointment that Mr Van Avermaet was not the right man in the right place for bpost. Meanwhile, in the United States, he was suspected of illegal price fixing and risked ten years in prison. In September last year, I asked your predecessor, Mr De Backer, a question about Mr Van Avermaet. Mr De Backer replied: "If the CEO makes a serious mistake, this could lead to immediate dismissal without any compensation." Madam Secretary, were you aware of Mr Van Avermaet's dismissal allowance? What is the government's position? Are you prepared to recover the dismissal allowance? Will the next CEO get one of those dismissals?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u36	Madam Secretary, at the beginning of 2020 Jean-Paul Van Avermaet took over the reins as the new CEO of Bpost. Only a few months later, it became clear that Mr Van Avermaet's choice had failed. The former G4S cluster manager was already mentioned in April 2020 as one of the main suspects in the file on price fixing, one of the potential disadvantaged parties being the Belgian government. With Danny Vandormael, the CEO of Seris, who is also suspected in the file, Mr Van Avermaet sat alternately as chairman of the BVBO. The only difference is that Mr.Vandormael was already fired a few days after the start of the investigation in June 2020, something that did not happen to Mr.Van Avermaet at all. However, that is still not the top priority of the dossier. The highlight is the central date in the study: 17 September 2019, even before the start of Mr Van Avermaet at bpost. In March 2021, he was fired by the pressure of Parliament. However, it turns out that Mr Van Avermaet will receive or have already received a discharge payment of EUR 500 000. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Were we aware of the file on price fixing in the security sector before Mr Van Avermaet joined bpost? Do you think it is possible that a CEO who is suspected of having harmed the government will receive a discharge allowance after being dismissed for a gross error, knowing that the board members blame him for a lack of competence, integrity and transparency? Finally, will you apply a safeguard clause in the contract of the new CEO?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u37	Mrs Vindevoghel, Mrs Dewulf, your questions are correct and I would therefore like to clarify the matter. I'll give you the chronology first. On 14 March 2021, the contract with Mr Van Avermaet was terminated. A month later, on April 19, 2021, bpost was subpoenaed by Mr Van Avermaet. For the general meeting of 12 May 2021, the previous Management Board, after having obtained mature consideration and legal advice, took the decision to reach a friendly settlement. The friendly settlement was signed on 10 June 2021. Bpost informed me that they also consulted a renowned expert office at the time of signing the contract with Mr Van Avermaet. You refer to a clause, which you call a safeguard clause. That clause could have avoided this. But that wasn't a common practice at the time. I can assure you this will change. These are the facts. bpost is an autonomous, listed company. I will stick to these facts, but add my own opinion now. Firstly, I find such an amicable settlement regrettable. I want to make that very clear. As you said, every day thousands of postmen and other employees of bpost give the best of themselves. For them, but also for me, this story has a bitter aftertaste. But bpost is an autonomous company. The previous board of directors decided and chose to proceed to an amicable settlement to close a court case, in order to protect the company in the best possible way, according to them and their advisers, so that the new board of directors and the new CEO would no longer be charged with this. Legal proceedings would take a very long time. This would create uncertainty as to the final cost for the company, given the legal conflict. This also avoided reputational damage and internal unrest within the company. In the context of this settlement, bpost is contractually bound to a confidentiality obligation and can also not disclose any substantive information. That could only feed the other side. So I'm not gonna risk it either. As far as the amount is concerned, please refer to amounts in the press. But I can add that this will be made public in the remuneration report for 2021, as it should be. That will appear next year. That amount is a compromise. You should know that Mr Van Avermaet claimed a much higher amount. This amount corresponds to a cancellation fee of 12 months, as stated in the contract. The amount has already been paid out. This is a decision of the previous board of directors, not the new one, because it is still looking for a new CEO at the moment. How's that going? Well, a headhunt office has been appointed that will provide support for that search. That is a different office than what was involved in the search and appointment of Mr Van Avermaet. Bpost's Board of Directors has urged the current headhunter to carry out a thorough analysis of all candidates, with a comprehensive screening and also a background check, called forensic check, of the top candidates to stop going through scenarios such as what we are discussing here today, in the future. The contract with the new CEO will certainly contain clauses regarding transparency, the relationship of trust with the board and the impact on the company's reputation. I can assure you that I insist that a special clause is indeed included in the contract, and I assume that people will learn from the past as well. That clause will have to be better protected by bpost and the Belgian state in view of the future. This can be done, for example, by having the CEO declare that there are no disputes or investigations pending against him or her at the time of signing the contract. You will understand that this is also the subject of legal consultation between the parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u38	Madam Secretary, when I think of all those postmen now, I suspect those people are very angry. They've been working so hard all year long for a low wage, because they're paid badly. The fact that someone like Mr. Van Avermaet leaves with such a large sum is hallucinating. If a regular postman makes a mistake, and for example doesn't put an ad sheet in the mailbox, he gets a form 9. If he gets a couple of times a Form 9, he might lose his job. The fact that the former CEO, who made such serious mistakes, is getting rid of them is incomprehensible to the ordinary postal people. I really hope that when you appoint the new CEO you will listen to the staff and that it will be someone who will defend the workers and their interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u39	Madam Secretary, how is it possible that such a failure has occurred? On the board of directors of bpost, there are still board members who chose Mr Van Avermaet and who do not want to see that they have made a mistake in their choice. They still decide on the future of bpost. Typical Belgium again. The court has not yet ruled in Mr Van Avermaet's case whether he is guilty or innocent, and yet the former CEO of Bpost received a large sum of money. It's a total disgrace. Hopefully a better choice will be made with the new CEO. But there are also concerns about that now. The board members who used to be part of the board of directors are working for an external candidate. It must be someone who knows the company well, a sustainable employer who has to take up his role, who has the ability to run the company. The postal company has already suffered enough image damage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u40	Madam President, Minister, bullets in the head in broad daylight in Amsterdam. That is how it gets close, because organized crime is getting stronger and more brutal. In three years' time, the number of magistrates, politicians, journalists and lawyers doubled to receive protection. There has been a long, long-standing warning of liquidations. On September 4, 2018, three years ago, and unfortunately also a number of grenade attacks and arson attacks, there was a reading in De Tijd, and I quote literally: "There are no liquidations in broad daylight on the street, as is the case in the Netherlands, but it is only a matter of time before Antwerp becomes the case." Federal Attorney Frédéric Van Leeuw is also clear, and I think we agree that he can be sure. I quote again: 'People really have no idea how violent organised crime has become. We need to commemorate our entire security culture. If we put ten people under protection in our country today, the whole service will be on its gums. In the Netherlands they are much further away there, because the facts have forced them to do so. We do not have to wait until it is too late." Hence, Minister, this clear question. Our country must act urgently. What are you gonna do? Are you also prepared to commemorate the culture of security and will there finally be a real, thorough plan to tackle organised crime?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u41	Madam President, Minister, terrible news from the Netherlands this week, because a known crime reporter is shot in broad daylight and in the centre of Amsterdam. We must pay attention to what we are saying today, because nothing is certain yet, but for the author of this cowardly attack one of the most notorious drug criminals in the Netherlands is being looked at. The fact that such an attack can happen naturally causes shock waves among our northern neighbours, but here in Belgium, too, nobody leaves that untouched. According to VTM News, the Flemish Association of Journalists says that threats against journalists are becoming more and more common among us. That aspect of this matter, the threat to free journalism, is very worrying, because our democracy is also threatened. A second aspect is that organized crime, with drug crime in particular, is becoming more and more active, including in our country. There are regular reports of attacks in residential neighborhoods and accounts within the drug environment. Fortunately, we can sometimes also hear the good news of a number of successes, such as large drug seizures in our ports or recently the impressive results of Sky ECC. Some say that we cannot win the war on drugs, which is a worrying message, because drug-related crime is putting our rule of law at risk and putting innocent people, citizens, at risk as well, in a spiral of unacceptable violence. We know that the fight against drugs will be difficult, but as a government, of course, we must take everything out of the box and make sufficient resources available. I know that when you took office as Minister of Justice, you made that fight a priority. Mr President, can you explain once again here in the Chamber what is the approach of you and the government to organized crime, and in particular the confusion about drugs? Do you know yourself about threats against journalists in our country? What is the extent of that problem? How do police and justice deal with such threats?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u42	Minister, yesterday the Netherlands was shocked by an attack on a crime reporter. I use the term spooked and not surprised, since we're not surprised. In recent years, the drug mafia has become increasingly ruthless and ruthless. We have seen this for a long time, not only in the Netherlands but also in Belgium. In Antwerp, neighborhood residents are all too often alarmed by bullet rules and grenade impacts. Here too, never before have so many magistrates, journalists, lawyers, politicians and policemen been protected, because they were threatened in their duties by the drug mafia, just because they did their job. The war on drugs failed in recent years and turned out to be mainly a slogan. Hardly any resources were turned against it and the result was that the user remained behind with a criminal record and without treatment, while the great drug lords, who earn millions, could continue to sow fear and terror in our cities. Yesterday, I heard the mayor of Antwerp swinging at almost every drug user. I am glad that the government is making the switch from a war on drugs to a war on dealers. This policy does not always blame the drug user, but focuses on prevention, harm reduction and intensive guidance for the problem users. At the same time, policy is accelerating the fight against organized drug gangs and international drug criminality. We saw you do that with complete conviction in Operation Sky, beyond the slogans. Take your hat off before that. It is absolutely necessary to move a gear up, because in a rule of law, everyone must be able to be safe and do their job. Lawyers should be able to defend their clients, researchers should be able to investigate and journalists should be able to write documents without fear of their lives. Minister, how will you move even higher so that we can guarantee everyone's safety? After all, everyone must be able to continue to do their job safely, especially in the further handling of Operation Sky.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u43	Yesterday we read in Het Laatste Nieuws: "How the tolerance of a joint has led to nothing-gentle violence in the Netherlands: from tolerated hashish to blood red cocaine." That's a Dutch study. The Netherlands has been too lax for too long. Crime is now everywhere, resulting in violence. When it rains in the Netherlands, it drips in Belgium. Federal Attorney Frédéric Van Leeuw was clear today. He says he is not surprised and that 65 people are already protected in Belgium. He underlines that what we urgently need now is action. Urgent. According to the Attorney General, we urgently need to commemorate our security culture. You will certainly argue later that you are investing in the Justice Department with additional resources and additional people. That is good, Minister, because justice and police have been fighting unequally for far too long. But is that enough? Shall we come up with that? No, we need a global coordinated approach. I could have put my question to the Minister of Finance, to the Minister of the Interior, to the Minister of Economy. I miss that global approach of the government, in the coalition agreement and in the various policy papers. What has been announced - and I am thinking of the ban on ports in December - has not yet been implemented. However, there is the Power Plan of the previous government. There is. That's waiting for sophistication. The suggestions are ahead of us. But the government doesn't do anything about it. What are some government parties up to? In Brussels they want to set up user areas, where the government wants to facilitate the use of banned hard drugs. So you're gonna be okay. I'll come back to the beginning. Toleration policy leads to unsatisfying violence. My questions to you, Minister, are very clear. We are also experiencing an increase in violence, unfortunately. The federal prosecutor's appeal was very clear: action is now needed. What are you waiting for?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what took place on Tuesday evening at the Lange Leidsedwarsstraat in Amsterdam is appalling. After a lawyer was shot in 2019, this time a renowned journalist was targeted. We all hope he survives. Criminals do that for one purpose, create a climate of fear and make people bow to terror. In our country, too, the drug mafia is increasingly involved with grenade attacks in Antwerp. In our country, too, lawyers are afraid. In our country, too, journalists are threatened. We will never accept that the free press and the rule of law, two foundations of our democracy, are threatened by those narcoterrorists. The head of the snake is in the Netherlands, but the body runs through Antwerp and our country. From day 1 onwards, the fight against organised crime is the fight of the entire government. Organised crime was hit on 9 March 2021 with the roll-up of the Sky network. The federal prosecutor and the director of the federal judicial police asked me in November 2020, one month after my appointment, for additional staff and additional resources. We immediately delivered 61 extra people to the Justice Department with the government. The Minister of the Interior provided a reinforcement of the FGP Antwerp. High-tech material led to a struggle with equal weapons. Colleagues, that is only the first step. We must now tackle the networks on all fronts. Mrs De Wit, a first front is a coordinated approach to organised crime. With our Streamplan XXL we ensure enhanced cooperation between all partners. We have learned from the evaluation of the first Power Plan. That is why we will now take better action. First of all, we do that, by a port attorney, who's in charge of the direction. Secondly, we do that, with local and federal police, working in operational teams. Thirdly, we do so through criminal investigations that affect the criminals in their portfolio. Recently, 5 million euros of assets of the so-called gang were forfeited. This coordinated approach will bring out many more dossiers. It is precisely for this reason that we, with this government, provide 165 additional staff at Justice, providing a structural investment of EUR 8.5 million. Strengthening existing services and letting services cooperate better is much better than setting up yet another new agency. Let us learn from the Netherlands. A new agency was set up there. That led to a competition with national police. Professor Fijnaut calls that foundation in De Standaard today a mistake. A second front is the security of our ports. We ensure better security of port terminals with stricter rules. Each container will be scanned thanks to the efforts of the Minister of Finance. There's gonna be a port ban on drug criminals. The Council of State's opinion on the draft law that we have prepared is positive. This approach is not limited to the port of Antwerp. The ports of Zeebrugge and Ghent will also be better protected. We also do not lose sight of the hinterland, because it is not only about the scam, it is also about ecstacylabos in the Kempen and Limburg. A third front is the collection of data. Anyone who wonders why data retention with respect for privacy is so important will get the answer here. It is vital that detectives be able to listen with criminals after approval by an investigative judge. That's why we're working out a new data retention law and investing 23 million euros extra in data interception. A fourth front is international cooperation. For Operation Sky, we worked closely with European allies Europol and Eurojust. With UNODC, we tackle the problems in the source countries. We do not accept that the Gulf States are free ports for top criminals. That is why we are in close contact with those countries to conclude extradition agreements with them. Finally, I come to Mr Segers' question. There is no drug market without drug users. But the idea that only punishing will solve the problem is a false idea. Mrs. De Wit, even in Antwerp there is a Free Clinic, with a program around spray exchange. Instead of pointing to Brussels, you look more closely at Antwerp and other cities. In many cities there are drug follow-up rooms that want to get addicts back on the right path through relief. That approach reduces the recidivism, and we want to extend that approach to the rest of the country. Colleagues, I come to my conclusion. The fight against organised crime is not an obvious battle. We are faced with a billion-dollar business that makes money in the face of public health. Yet we are achieving results. This year, a record of 54 tons of cocaine has been seized. Five xtc labs have been rolled up. 253 people were arrested in the Sky file alone, including for corruption: city officials, hospital staff, lawyers, police officers, customs officers and public prosecutors. Let us not be mistaken about our opponent. We can only achieve results by working together at all levels, locally, regionally and federally, and by fighting together to stop the narcoterror.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad to hear that you are not going to sit down, but above all I hope that it will not be just words. It must be said that your words are not always followed by deeds. Just think of the announcement of the sexual penal code in April, which would be dealt with in an urgent manner before the recess. This is now being postponed again, probably because there is no agreement. Please let it not just be an announcement policy, but trade and above all free up sufficient financial resources. I hope you won't wait in this file for innocent victims to fall. I will follow your Power Plan XXL and its implementation very closely. You can certainly count on the support of the Flemish Interest for the rapid effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u46	Of course, Minister, I am very pleased with the extra resources the government is making available, including the extra staff. It certainly comes down to working together, with Justice, federal and local police, assistance, prevention, but also internationally. This organised crime is, by definition, cross-border. I agree with you that we must continue to act hard. It is not just about young people who hope to earn a penny quickly and thereby throw away their lives, bribes by dock workers or brutal street violence, but also about billions of criminal money circulating and having a destabilising effect on the economy. It is mainly about people's lives who are being put at risk. All this is unacceptable. This government will continue to fight and will free up resources and staff to fight this battle. You will have the full support of our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u47	Mr. Secretary, forward stands for a war on dealers. That's a war with a focus on the mafia, rather than the occasional drug user. That is the battle we must fight if we want our country to be truly safer, if we want the Antwerp people not to be alarmed by night-time bullets or grenade explosions, if we want everyone to be able to do their job with peace of mind to curb the drug mafia. That is what you are doing, and that is what your answer shows very much. This is particularly evident from your actions. With Operation Sky, we won a battle against the Mafia, but if we want to win the war against the Mafia, we will also have to protect our policemen, our magistrates, our journalists. Then we must also continue to strengthen our police forces, as you point out, with resources and people. You also mentioned the integrated teams, which I am particularly pleased with. As a follow-up, I would also like to call for another passage from the coalition agreement, in particular for the multidisciplinary investigation teams specifically focused on the fight against the drug mafia. I wish you every success with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. First of all, squirt swap is something other than a user room, but we're definitely still having that discussion. I hear you saying a lot about the power plan. It would be nice if you did it effectively this time, instead of having it recorded in the newspaper. What you call a power plan XXL is called extra light on the ground, if I may believe the signals. So, do something about that. Do you know this book? It allows drug criminals to speak. They like to come to our country. The odds are small, the punishments are low and people get out early. We need to do something about that. We have a ten-point plan. We proposed it yesterday, on July 7, 2021. Do something with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u49	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, people want to know if what they eat is safe. This concern is heightened in periods such as now, when there is PFAS. In our country, the BFSA, our watchdog, ensures that our food is safe. In the PFOS file, the BFSA says soothingly that our food is safe, but it is based on standards of 13 years ago. Europe said in September last year that these standards are obsolete and should be up to a thousand times stricter. A thousand times. You will perhaps answer me that it takes time to convert that warning from Europe and those standards to Belgian standards. Minister Vandenbroucke told us that it would be okay in the middle of next year or at the end of next year. I do not understand that we have to wait more than two years for such standards to be transposed. I do not understand why it is necessary to wait two years to sensitize companies, to prepare our labs, to have the BFSA carefully communicate about the standards and about our food safety. Why can't we switch faster when we see that our neighbour Holland is now done with standards in this area and will soon apply them? Mr Minister, can you explain why you have the BFSA communicate that everything is fine, even though we don't really know that. I do not understand why we have to wait until the end of 2022 before we have safe standards, nor why the government and the BFSA fail to implement a policy that protects our food and thus our health, before there is another scandal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u50	Madam President, Minister, there have been serious concerns about the PFOS scandal in Zwijndrecht for several weeks now. However, there was a reassuring message from the BFSA, our food safety agency, about the quality of our food in the store. Afterwards, that reassuring message turned out to be based on outdated limits, as the BFSA based itself on thirteen-year-old European standards. Thirteen years is a century in scientific terms. However, last year, Europe issued a new opinion which is hundreds of times stricter than the previous one and on the basis of which the Scientific Committee of the same Food Safety Agency published an emergency opinion setting new limits. It seems to me that the message to the people was at least misleading. Why does the BFSA base its communication on those old standards? If people can't count on proper information from the government anymore, where should we go? Mr Minister, can you assure me that the food that is in the store, that we eat every day and that people present to their children, is safe every day?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u51	Minister, no worrying PFOS values were found in agricultural products in the Zwijndrecht region. That was the reassuring message from the BFSA last week. For farmers, who have been living in uncertainty for weeks, that was, of course, a great relief. The reaction of one of the fruit growers in the region was therefore striking. He said the message gave perspective because the BFSA would never say something like that if it wasn't absolutely certain. However, it turns out that the BFSA was based on totally outdated standards. A year ago, the European Food Safety Authority published an opinion on a new standard, which is as much as 238 times stricter. That's unbelievable. The BFSA tried to defend itself yesterday and said that it cannot conduct a policy based on an opinion, but the current standards are also based on an opinion, although an opinion of thirteen years ago. So it is nonsense that the BFSA cannot tighten its standards. Minister, I have three questions for you. Will you make all measurement data public so that we can compare them ourselves with the latest scientific standards? Will you force the BFSA to apply the latest scientific standards and thus adjust its action limits? Finally, there is talk that farmers themselves will have to bear the cost of additional analyses, on top of the expected loss of income. That cannot be the case for us, of course. I asked you a question about this three weeks ago, but you did not answer it at the time. So I ask the question again today. Will you fully compensate farmers if there are problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u52	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you know, as I do, that the PFAS have been an integral part of the current situation for several weeks, with a major pollution in the PFOS in Zwijndrecht, near Antwerp, which has been a pollution for several decades. Last week, AFSCA also invited itself in the news as it published news that might have been reassuring. According to the Agency, the levels of PFOS observed in meat, milk and eggs produced in the area do not exceed the hazard threshold. Learning this news was a relief for local people and producers – you can easily imagine it. However, in establishing its verdict, the AFSCA used a threshold of danger set by the European Food Safety Agency thirteen years ago. At the time, 150 nanograms of PFOS were discussed per kilogram of body weight per day. This threshold was revised in 2020 to 0.63 nanograms. So it's a hundred times tighter. It is known that this affects health, the endocrine system, that it can lead to malformations, multiple cancers, neurological disorders, or even a decrease in vaccine response. This is what is likely to happen with the PFOS in Zwijndrecht and for the future Zwijndrecht. Minister, how is it possible that the PSAB did not take into account existing standards? Lack of rigour is here to play with people's confidence. It's also about playing with health. An interdepartmental conference on health was held today. What measures have been mentioned? PFAS are widely present in food packaging and pesticides. This is a worrying situation. The dangers associated with these substances are too great for us to let our population be exposed to them. We have to act, Minister. What are your actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u53	Minister, the problems of PFAS and PFOS have already been outlined in detail. We receive PFOS through our food and the role of the BFSA, the agency responsible for monitoring our food safety, is therefore very important. Now it appears that there are problems. While the BFSA has been screening PFAS and PFOS for more than ten years, the standards used to determine the alert thresholds appear to be quite outdated. Apparently, the science already knew that, but the BFSA wasn't followed. Last week we questioned the Minister for Health about the problem and he also indicated that the standards applied are outdated. He also added this to my grave concern that there was a problem with the BFSA's labs. Apparently, they can't detect the lower concentrations of PFAS and PFOS. That's what makes me frown the eyebrows. Minister, what are we actually doing at the moment, if we are using outdated standards for the increased controls in Zwijndrecht? What conclusions can we draw from this? Why has the BFSA not followed the latest scientific findings? Do we actually have equipment that can detect contemporary concentrations of PFAS and PFOS? Are our installations even up-to-date? Today there was an inter-ministerial conference on PFOS with different levels of policy. Minister Demir has indicated that she wants to put the issue of PFOS on the European agenda. I would have liked to have heard from you what specific proposals you made during that meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u54	Minister, I am standing here with a very big feeling of déjà vu. Three weeks ago, I was standing here asking questions about the PFOS file. I asked you to clarify and give certainty to the inhabitants and farmers around the 3M farm, because there was great concern. I also asked questions about the role of the BFSA. I asked why the latest opinion of 2020 on the accepted standards for PFOS has not yet been applied in Belgium. You then informed us that the BFSA itself defined action limits in the absence of standards at European level. But what does it turn out to be? The standards that the BFSA now uses are old standards, from 2008. These standards are drastically higher than the new standards that Europe has already defined last year. So they are now using strongly outdated standards. They are 250 to 1,000 times less stringent than the one Europe announced last year. This seems to be a failure of the BFSA and that is unacceptable, because it concerns our health and our food safety. You announced on 1 July that you would carry out a specific sampling campaign in a radius of 15 kilometres around the farm. Measuring is knowing. That's a good move. But then, of course, we want the results to be known quickly and communicated quickly. There must therefore be sufficient laboratory capacity and sufficient resources. Minister, we have been more than a month since the PFOS bomb exploded. And yet there is still a great deal of concern and uncertainty. How will you ensure sufficient laboratory capacity and resources for the BFSA? When will farmers ultimately get the results? When will we know that our food is effectively safe? When will the BFSA apply the latest standards? What support measures will you provide for the affected farmers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u55	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, farmers and hobby gardeners in a wide radius around the 3M plant are concerned. They can still eat the eggs and the vegetables, but is that safe? The BFSA has analysed samples of meat, eggs and milk in a radius of fifteen kilometers around the 3M factory. The results of the analysis are lower than the standards. However, that is not difficult. These are not the latest standards. In 2008, the standard was 150 nanograms; in 2016 it was reduced to 20 nanograms; in 2020 the standard in Europe was further reduced to 0.63 nanograms. Minister, how is it possible that pollution has been under the radar for so long? Why were the latest standards not used for analysis of the samples? Do you believe that the old standards are sufficient for the analyses? What values have been established in the analyses, by the way? Do you believe that the food that comes from the 3M plant area is harmless to public health? Or do you believe that additional steps are needed to ensure the safety of the food chain? Last but not least, who will be responsible for the adverse effects and the danger to food safety and public health? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, as I said at a previous sitting, I continue to follow very closely the pollution of the environment caused by PFOS in Zwijndrecht. First of all, I would like to reiterate the responsibility of the various authorities in this area. Environmental pollution issues fall within the competence of the Regions. It is therefore the Flemish Region which is responsible for soil and water pollution in Zwijndrecht. I am responsible for the safety of the food chain and will therefore reply only in this respect. I hear and read several of you stigmatize the standards in the press that the BFSA uses in its monitoring. I would therefore like to draw your attention to a few elements. The European Commission has exclusive competence to set standards. It is the only body empowered to set harmonised standards for products and services. These standards will then apply to all Member States. As far as the PFAS is concerned, as you know, no standards have yet been established at European level. In the absence of European standards, the BFSA set action limits in 2008 on the basis of which the Agency can carry out its audit mission. The BFSA did not wait for the articles in the press about Zwijndrecht to check for PFAS. Since 2008, 450 samples of food have been analysed throughout Belgium. They were all lower than the action limits defined by the BFSA. On 3 June 2021, the BFSA read in the press that there was an environmental pollution in Zwijndrecht. I immediately wrote to the European Commission to say that it was necessary to have harmonised standards quickly. The Commission has undertaken to initiate a rapid procedure to adopt standards. On the basis of the information provided by the European Commission, a draft with standards could be submitted for approval in December 2021. As for the role of the AFSCA, it would be wrong to say that it would not have had a proactive approach in this area. On the contrary, as I have already said, it itself set limits for action several years ago in order to be able to carry out its monitoring task because of the lack of European legal standards. These limits of action do not exist in our neighbours, in France, the Netherlands, Luxembourg or even Germany. Furthermore, on the basis of the latest opinion of EFSA (the European Food Safety Authority), an opinion was requested from the Scientific Committee of AFSCA. This notice was published on 1 July. It includes a series of recommendations that AFSCA immediately implemented. On the first recommendation, in agreement with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, I asked AFSCA to launch an additional monitoring. This monitoring targets 37 farms located within 15 km of the Zwijndrecht site. The analyses will focus on eggs, edible offal, farmed meat and milk. The results are expected by mid-July. As regards the second recommendation, background monitoring to determine the normal PFAS content of food produced outside a contaminated area will also be launched this week. As for the third recommendation, we are awaiting regional inventories of other potentially controlled areas. In conclusion, in good agreement with my firm, the AFSCA acted proactively and in a very reactive manner to implement the recommendations of the SICOM. On the other hand, it is not its responsibility to define the standards itself. To take an image that will speak to everyone: it is not a police officer who is asked to write the Road Traffic Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u57	Minister, you say that the BFSA has reacted proactively and that there will be additional monitoring, but just as after the fipronil crisis, the BFSA has not proactively communicated. You can say that the communication was in order, but Minister Vandenbroucke said at the committee meeting on Tuesday that the communication was based on a document from 2017. That 2017 document states on page 28 that PFOS standards are based on 2008 standards. If the BFSA then declares that everything is okay, I do not call that proactive communication. Since we have based ourselves on old standards, it cannot be said that our food is safe. I hope, Minister, that we will be able to carry on this in depth in committee next Tuesday. I ask that you bring representatives of the BFSA so that the agency can provide us with the figures. Then, following the audits, which we have already discussed extensively here, we can evaluate whether there has been thorough and proactive communication, because I do not agree with you on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u58	Minister, I am pleased that you are taking the advice of the Scientific Committee of the BFSA and that you or the BFSA are working on it. However, I do have a problem with the fact that such, I call it almost reckless, has been communicated. The scientific basis for the communication is thirteen years old, but it is said that everything is in order. I can't do that. The population is entitled to clear scientific advice. If an opinion cannot be delivered, it must also be communicated transparently. At the same time, the BFSA must make it clear that it will do what the latest science requires as soon as possible. I really hope, since several communication problems have already occurred, that the BFSA will adhere to them on another occasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u59	I asked you three questions. I didn't really get an answer to three questions. You have tried to hide behind Europe. You say there is nothing you can do until legal standards are laid down at European level. That argument just doesn't make any sense. You yourself say that the BFSA has already established its own action limits, without those European standards. The BFSA can therefore apply more stringent limits now. We therefore demand that this be done. The measurement data of the BFSA must be made public as soon as possible. You didn't answer that. I deeply regret that. What's stopping you? I asked a clear question about compensation for the farmers affected. You did not answer that question either. That's really disturbing. It is unacceptable that farmers will somehow have to pay for what is going on here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u60	Minister, I insist, but I am deeply concerned about the problem of PFAS and PFOS. I would like to reiterate that we can all act together. In fact, last week, unanimously – and I thank my colleagues again for that – we voted in favour of this PFAS motion for a resolution, with several requests. Among these is the demand for national labelling, which would be a European first. The measures taken in recent years by many European countries in terms of analysis, risk prevention and the search for alternatives show us that it is possible to meet the challenge before us. Today, we can't wait any longer. Together, federal, communities and regions, it is up to us to join forces to be the pioneers in the fight against the PFAS and to live up to our responsibilities to protect the environment and the health of all Belgians. That is what is needed for tomorrow!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u61	Mr Minister, I too have not received an answer to all my questions, but I am sure that we will be able to have a good debate on Tuesday. It is indeed regrettable that there are no European thresholds. I also hope that Minister Demir's proposal to place this on the European agenda and, above all, to commit concrete actions to it will be supported by many Member States. I also hope that you will urge your colleagues in the various European countries to do so. I also propose that you provide Parliament with a report on the detection capacity of our labs, so that we know what these labs can and cannot do and we can get a clear view of it. Everyone must play their full role here, not only at the Flemish level, but also at the federal level. The BFSA is about food safety. We need to be able to count on that. That role must be taken seriously. If scientific research shows that lower levels of PFAS and PFOS can be harmful, then it needs to be clearly and clearly communicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is a good thing that additional sampling is taking place and there is a proactive response. It is important that results are now achieved quickly and that there is clear and transparent communication with the affected farmers. I am still hungry for my question as to whether financial support will be provided for the affected farmers. I hope this will be looked at. I also remain concerned about the communication of the BFSA. It's not the first time I've expressed that concern. From the press release it seems as if there is nothing going on, but I am not 100% sure. I'd rather wait for the results. I think more attention should be paid to communication. It appears that we are using standards that are 13 years old, which are therefore obsolete and that new standards need to be introduced as a matter of urgency. So we need to work on this communication. Flanders is the leader in the field of vaccinations. Belgium should also take a leading role at European level in order to pursue harmonised European standards as soon as possible. Our public health is entitled to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u63	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply, but it is too often the case that food safety is taking place in this country. I have already asked questions in the past about abuses in slaughterhouses, including the images. You'll remember that. Local authorities and public authorities have been aware of the pollution for years, but they did not intervene, and now it turns out that 3M has been draining polluted rainwater for years without being tapped. It is high time for a powerful action, the people responsible have to accept their responsibilities and pay for cleaning up their mess. Minister, it is also your job and your responsibility to ensure the safety of the food chain. Take responsibility and take care of these new standards. In the case of Flemish Interest, citizens must not again suffer from mispolicy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u64	This concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u65	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 July 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 July 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u66	I have received amendments to the bill on temporary support measures due to the VOCID-19 pandemic, No. 2070/1. I have received amendments to the draft law providing temporary support measures as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic, No. 2070/1. I propose that you refer these amendments to the committee (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). I propose that these amendments be sent to the committee (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u67	Colleagues, I now propose to deal with the motions tabled, namely a motion of order from DéFI, signed by Mr. De Smet and Mrs Rohonyi, and a point of order from the N-VA, signed by Mr. From Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to refer to the honourable Member who spoke just now about the PFOS issue, who quite rightly said that we hope that the committee will be able to discuss it in greater depth and that the BFSA will be able to examine it thoroughly. That is a very fair question. That is also the normal parliamentary work, so that should be possible. On the question of government Commissioner Ihsane Haouach, statements were made by the government in the debate just now, and the question remains whether the lady concerned wishes to comply with them. The answer cannot, of course, be given by the Prime Minister or the Secretary of State. They can say what the space of performance is for them. But it is important that we measure the statements made by the person concerned against them. But that is a theoretical exercise, when we ourselves cannot hear her through the normal way of democratic control work. A question from our group in committee on this matter was unfortunately rejected by the majority this week. The argument of one of the majority parties was that an actua debate would be held here in plenary. We didn't have that actua debate. There was a round of questions with two minutes and one minute reply, but that does not, of course, offer the opportunity to hear the person concerned, as I said at the time. We now know the framework outlined by the government. I assume that is also a strict framework. It is therefore quite natural that we should be able to measure the attitude of the Commissioner for Government. I would also like to say, and that is not a detail, that a chairman of a government party believes that the statement via Facebook by the person concerned is not sufficient. I do not want to take a preliminary view of whether or not that statement is sufficient, I simply want to measure it with the comments of that person himself. There is also a reasonable margin of principle, Madam President. There is the fact that we all use social media, which is a good way to communicate with the public. But the social media are not an alternative to a parliamentary debate. I regret that shift. On the one hand, it is said that a particular person, a government commissioner, will not be questioned in Parliament. On the other hand, a communication on Facebook is used as an argument to settle that debate. We can't accept that. It is, of course, up to the committee and not to this body to regulate the work of a committee. That is why I made my question very clear in the sense that the Chamber would ask the chairman of the committee in question to convene a meeting as soon as possible before the recess, of course, I know, in order to exercise the right of parliamentary scrutiny. I trust, ladies and gentlemen, that we can formulate this question unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we expected much from the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. In particular, I noted from their reply that Ms. Haouach had not spoken on behalf of the government, but on her personal behalf. We're not fools! Ms. Haouach spoke on issues that are directly related to her function, a function of authority that is more than that, and thus engages the government as a whole. Indeed, Mrs. Haouach is a good representative of the government. She is the delegate of the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities to the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. In fact, the Council of State has reaffirmed this quite recently. In its judgment, the Council of State states that the post of Commissioner is a position of trust. It is in this capacity that the Commissioner has the power to block decisions, if she considers them to be contrary to the public interest or the law. But it also has a duty to respect the principle of neutrality in actions and appearances. Finally, this is a pure application of our Constitution, but also of the Code of Ethics for Public Agents, as the Prime Minister admitted earlier. I was curious and went to see what this Code specifically provides for. He says: "Public agents, including government commissioners, are at the service of all citizens, without discrimination of any kind. In their attitude or behaviour, they refrain from manifesting prejudice or stereotypes. They are also bound by a duty of impartiality." It must be noted that this requirement has not been met, nor has the principle of neutrality been met. It was not respected in appearances because of the ostentatious wearing of a religious sign in the framework of a function of authority, but also and above all, today, in acts. This is the most serious element. That is what is fundamentally a problem for us. In fact, Mrs Haouach has made remarks which aim to adapt or rather to soften the principle of State neutrality or to combat measures which merely result from the same principle. This language is militant. It feeds the mix between neutrality and discrimination, which is extremely dangerous. Why? Because it can undermine all efforts made for decades to protect minorities. That is why the explanations that we had to receive from the Prime Minister, but also from the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, were fundamental. They were to allow us to know whether the Commissioner still enjoys the confidence of the government that is responsible to this Parliament today. We were in the framework of our parliamentary scrutiny. If the Prime Minister has reiterated the importance of the principle of neutrality and, therefore, will ensure that there are no further such incidents, the Secretary of State, for her part, has greatly minimized the seriousness of the public statements made. These statements are all the more dangerous and unacceptable as they deny the commitment made by the government in its agreement and for which it has obtained the confidence of the same Parliament. I quote: "It is committed to reducing all forms of discrimination, including inequalities that penalize women, but also to pursuing a proactive policy that will tackle structural and historical imbalances." Instead, the delegate of a member of the government intended to strengthen these imbalances. It's just unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why our group believes that the Commissioner absolutely must be heard. This is part of our parliamentary oversight mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u70	Madam President, I shall confine myself to the procedure. I do not intend to repeat the substance of the debate. I hear that all the arguments that have just been put forward are repeated. At the end of his speech, Mr De Roover also said that it was not the intention to regulate the work of a committee in plenary. It is actually asked that the plenary should decide what should happen in the womb of a committee. In this way, however, the Chamber would move away from the rule that it is the committees that regulate their work. I understand that the question for a hearing was raised during the course of this week and that the committee has had a negative view of it and referred to the topical debate this afternoon. I understand that this question is repeated, but it must be repeated in committee. The committee should be able to consider and decide whether a hearing is to be held on the basis of new elements. It is actually asked that you, Madam President, tell the chairman of the committee that the plenary asks that the committee organise a debate on this matter. We would therefore abandon the principle that each committee itself regulates its work. That's my opinion. I have no objection to you acting as a post office box and simply giving the question to the chairman of the committee, but if the plenary says that the committee should organise that debate, then we can arrange all possible debates in committees in the future, and I do not think that is the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u71	Madam President, I agree with Mr Dewael. In substance, the Prime Minister has made a very detailed assessment of the situation. I won't go so far as to say that he whistled the end of recreation, but almost. In any case, he has reframed things precisely and we have confidence in the head of government. He said there'd be no slipping. We believe that the responsibility for the conduct of an agent is the responsibility of the principal and not of the agent. That is why, in committee, we wanted the principal and the representative to be heard. As this was not the Commission's wish, we abstained. In this case, the question is to ask the committee to take a decision on the matter. It is the competence of the committee. For our part, the clear development of the Prime Minister is enough, on the understanding that no more slipping will be tolerated. That's what the Prime Minister himself said. Therefore, we remain within this framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u72	Madam President, I wanted to agree with Mr Dewael's point of form and procedure. It is the parliamentary committees that regulate their work. On the substance, I should like to point out that this debate has already been discussed this week in the Committee on Health, which then expressed itself - as Mr Piedboeuf pointed out - clearly rejecting this request. In addition, a topical debate was held this afternoon with Prime Minister and Secretary of State Sarah Schlitz, both of whom clarified this issue as well as the government's commitments and values. It also seemed essential to us. Moreover, there was no new evidence on the merits. We therefore do not see why we should resume hearings or invite the Commissioner of the Government to do so, especially since it is the government that is politically responsible and that has made a clear statement this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u73	I agree with Mr Dewael. Saying that this committee should come together is beyond our competence. However, this is a request. Of course, the Chamber can ask for this, which is no problem at all, but it is the committee that has to organise its work. This House can, however, make a request to that committee, in that sense the order of business has also been established. We do not impose an obligation, because otherwise we would fall out of the role that has been assigned to us. So I am right, but that is not an argument against the text we have tabled. Mr Vanden Burre, that there would be no new fact, is, of course, at odds with the whole of this session. It also runs counter to the Facebook message, two facts that took place after the committee meeting to which you referred. It's new data. The parliamentary control that we can exercise here in the hemisphere vis-à-vis the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State has taken place. We have that freedom. This is not a citizen, by the way. I would find it a very bad thing if we were to invite citizens to a committee to answer. However, this is a government commissioner. The only option that exists is not here in plenary, but we cannot invite the person concerned to ask her questions. The only way to do that is the one we're suggesting. Mr Piedboeuf, it is not a question of trusting the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State, the question is whether we can and want to work within that framework. That's a whole different thing. We have heard here what government policy is, and that is a fine measure that we can use. As a Parliament, however, we must have the opportunity to check whether this criterion is accepted, not only by the government but also by the person concerned. Finally, I can only call on colleagues not to see statements in the media or even in social media as an alternative to normal parliamentary control of what I believe is an important phenomenon. Otherwise, we would not have had a day-long commotion about this in the media, your President would not have expressed himself very strongly, there would have been no critical questions asked, and the government would not have spoken out as it has done. It's not about a bagatel. Parliamentary control is cut by half if the possibility of suggesting to the committee is not given.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u74	Madam Chair, I am not going to lengthen the discussion. I repeat that the Secretary of State had the responsibility to designate who she wanted. She did, and we said what we thought at the time. We've had another debate on that. The principal is responsible for his agent and it is the principal's responsibility to answer. Today, there was an answer. We can think of what we want, but the Prime Minister said there was a slip and there will be no more. We remain confident in the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u75	Madam Chair, I will not speak on the motion that was tabled by my colleagues at the N-VA. I didn't drop it off. I would just like to clarify the purpose of the motion tabled on behalf of our group. This motion is a request to ensure that Members of Parliament are able to hear, as soon as possible, the Government Commissioner at the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, before the parliamentary holidays. I would therefore like to reassure Mr Dewael. I fully understand his concern. This is a request to Parliament to ensure that a hearing is held in committee. Then the committee, within the framework of its order of business, is free to determine the procedure for the hearing of Mrs Haouach, which will have to be done on the basis of the answers we have obtained today from the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State, but also of the "clarifications" which have been brought by Mrs Haouach on Facebook because Facebook is not a channel of parliamentary control, as we should hear it and as the Constitution intends. This occurred after Tuesday's Health Committee, when a request for hearing had actually been made. This request was refused, but it was refused without regard to the elements that have occurred in the meantime. It is therefore within the framework of our parliamentary oversight mission that we believe that the committee must be able to look at Mrs Haouach's hearing in order to clarify her remarks and to check whether she is still capable of performing her function properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u76	A first order motion was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover and reads as follows: "The provisional committee agenda for the week of 12 July 2021 was validated by the meeting of the Conference of Presidents of 7 July 2021. This provisional agenda was sent to Members of this House yesterday. In the light of recent developments and the new elements in the dossier concerning Government Commissioner Haouach, in particular her own statements and the numerous responses from various government members, we ask the Chamber to ask the Chairman of the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities to convene the Committee without delay in order to hear from Government Commissioner Haouach." A first point of order was tabled by Mr. Peter De Roover and reads as follows: "At its meeting on 7 July 2021, the Conference of Presidents approved the provisional agenda for the week of 12 July 2021. This provisional agenda was distributed yesterday to the members of our Assembly. In view of the recent developments and developments in this matter concerning the Haouach government commissioner, in particular her own statements and the countless reactions to these statements by various members of the government, we ask the House to ask the chairman of the Health and Equality Commission for an opportunity to convene the commission without delay in order to be able to hear the Haouach government commissioner." I propose that the chairmen take a decision on this motion. I propose that the chairmen of the political groups vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u77	A second point of order was tabled by Mr. François De Smet and Ms. Sophie Rohonyi and reads as follows: "The Chamber, After hearing the explanations of the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity on the comments of Ihsane Haouach, Government Commissioner at the Institute for Gender Equality, published in Le Soir on 3 July 2021, - having regard to Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives; - having regard to the Royal Decree of 17 May 2021 appointing Mrs Ihsane Haouach as Commissioner of the Government to the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men; - having regard to the public statements of Ihsane Haouach, Government Commissioner at the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, in the newspaper Le Soir of 3 July 2021; Whereas the Office of the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity stated that Ms. Ihsane Haouach does not represent the Institute for Gender Equality or even the Federal Government; - Whereas, in the light of Ms. Ihsane Haouach's position, her public statements are indeed binding on the federal government; - Whereas, in the terms of the Government's agreement, the Government commits itself "with determination to reduce all forms of discrimination, in particular the inequalities which penalise women", but also that the Government intends to pursue "an active policy on gender equality and a proactive policy that will tackle structural and historical imbalances"; - Whereas Mrs Ihsane Haouach's remarks are likely to undermine the principle of neutrality of the civil service, which has been understood by constitutional tradition as exclusive in appearance for decades; - Whereas, under the terms of the Royal Decree of 17 May 2021, the training and professional and associative experience of Mrs Ihsane Haouach enable her to attest to her knowledge and experience in matters of public administration and gender equality; - Whereas Mrs Ihsane Haouach performs a function of devolution of public authority which imposes respect for the principle of neutrality; - Whereas, at the request of Mrs Ihsane Haouach to be heard in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities of 6 July 2021, the parties of the federal majority refused to grant this legitimate request; - Considering that the House of Representatives is the heart of democracy which is responsible for the control of the federal government through political control and control of the policy of the ministers and secretary of state; the authors of this point of order request that the members of the House of Representatives be able to hear, as soon as possible, Ms. Ihsane Haouach, Commissioner of the Government at the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, following the statements made in the press of 3 July 2021, and in all cases before the parliamentary holidays." A second order of business was tabled by Mr François De Smet and Ms Sophie Rohonyi and reads as follows: "The Chamber, - heard the presentation by the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity of the statements made by Ms Ihsane Haouach, Government Commissioner at the Institute for Gender Equality, published in the newspaper Le Soir of 3 July 2021, - having regard to Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives, - having regard to the Royal Decree of 17 May 2021 appointing Ms Ihsane Haouach as Government Commissioner at the Institute for Gender Equality; - having regard to the public statements made by Ms Ihsane Haouach, Government Commissioner at the Institute for Gender Equality, in the newspaper Le Soir of 3 July 2021; - whereas the Cabinet of the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity has stated that Mrs Ihsane Haouach does not represent either the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men or the Federal Government; - whereas, in the light of Mrs Ihsane Haouach's position, her public statements do bind the federal government; - whereas, in accordance with the terms of the government agreement, the Government undertakes "to combat all forms of discrimination, including against women" and "to pursue an active gender policy and a voluntarist gender policy that tackles structural and historical imbalances"; - whereas the statements made by Mrs Ihsane Haouach undermine the principle of the neutrality of public office, which, in the tradition of the Constitution, has not allowed any outward signs for decades; - whereas, in accordance with the terms of the Royal Decree of 17 May 2021, Ms Ihsane Haouach's training and professional and association experience demonstrate that there is knowledge and experience in public administration as well as gender equality; - whereas Mrs Ihsane Haouach exercises a function of public authority which implies respect for the principle of neutrality; - whereas during the discussion in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities of 6 July 2021 of the request to hear Mrs Ihsane Haouach, the federal majority parties refused to accept that legitimate request; - whereas the Chamber of Representatives is at the heart of democracy and is responsible for overseeing the federal government through political control and monitoring of the policies of Ministers and State Secretarys; Ask the authors of this motion that Members of Parliament should be able to hear as soon as possible, and in any case before the parliamentary recess, Ms Ihsane Haouach, Government Commissioner at the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, following the statements published in the press on 3 July 2021." I propose that the chairmen take a decision on this motion. I propose that the chairmen of the political groups vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u78	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u79	- 1789: Goedele Liekens, Marianne Verhaert, Michel De Maegd - 1469: Ahmed Laaouej, Christophe Lacroix, Hugues Bayet, Malik Ben Accour - 1780: Samuel Cogolati, Wouter De Vriendt, Guillaume Defosse, Simon Moutquin, Dieter Vanbesien, Séverine de Laveleye, Claire Hugon, Marie-Colline Leroy, Kristof Calvo, Julie Song Els Van Hoof, Georges Dallemagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u80	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1789/6) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1789/6) The title was changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution condemning arbitrary detentions in "rehabilitation camps" and supporting international and European initiatives to protect Uighurs and other Turkish Muslim minorities". The title was changed by the Committee to "Proposal for a resolution on the condemnation of arbitrary detention in "reeducation camps" and to support international and European initiatives to protect the Uighurs and the other ethnic-Turkish Muslim minorities." The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u81	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u82	Madam President, this motion for a resolution deals with an extremely important matter. The news that reaches us about the population in question is extremely alarming. The problem with regimes like Chinese is classic: the information always comes indirectly and is difficult to verify. That is why it was extremely important that we had interesting and substantively strong hearings on this issue. There can be no doubt that things are happening there that must provoke everyone's disgust. One of the questions we addressed was whether there is a formal genocide here. We need to be careful about that word, not out of pudeur, but because such a term has a meaning, including international law, and we need to be careful not to hollow out that meaning by using the word carelessly. That clarity has given us the hearings. That is for a part the strength of regimes like the Chinese, which make very clear, clear statements always difficult, not to say impossible. Those hearings have allowed some adjustments to be made to the original text, so that it is less susceptible to criticism. I think there was a rather large consensus on the substance - the discussion was about a number of wordings - with the exception of colleagues from the Labour Party, PTB, for which Mr De Vuyst spoke. I shall perhaps surprise the PVDA colleagues by saying that I found their statements particularly useful. I will not be easy to get rid of by saying that they have made themselves known as palades of the Chinese regime. After all, it is always a good thing that there are votes against in a debate. This also challenges the authors of the motion for a resolution and those who tried to improve the text to stay sharp in the discussion. I find it surprising that PVDA's strong tendency to be critical is not the same in every debate. The party here has adopted an attitude that is in stark contrast to the attitude it takes in similar cases when it concerns other parts of the world. If I were to express the suspicion that a certain sympathy for the regime over there has been the cause of the other attitude, I might be on slippery ice. Really far-fetched isn't possible. This means that the vote may not be unanimous in the future, and I regret that. Maybe the fellow comrades will change their minds. Then the debate in plenary still made sense. The N-VA Group will support the improved text as amended. My sense of realism teaches me that its effect may be limited, even though we note that the representatives of that country have followed the texts and work very closely. It doesn't leave them completely indifferent. Hopefully, this will be a small step towards finding a solution, even if it is far away, and we will be able to contribute at least to the group of countries expressing our opposition to this very serious and fundamental violation of human rights. The message would be more powerful if it were delivered unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am particularly moved and proud to be able to intervene one last time in what has really been a journey of the combatant to have crimes against humanity recognised, but also the serious risk of genocide against the Uighur community in China. We are all part of this generation that grew up with the slogan "Never again!", in reference, of course, to the Shoah. I would remind you, for example, that just 20 years ago, during an examination at primary school, the teacher asked us to analyse a song, namely "Born in Leidenstadt in 17th, which asked the following question: "On the ruins of a battlefield, would I have been better or worse than these people, had I been German? (...) Have I heard the cry of the wind? We'll never know what we really have in our stomachs. (...) The soul of a brave or an accomplice or a executioner?" These questions, ladies and gentlemen, we will never really be able to answer them with certainty. No, we don't know, we don't know what we would have done instead of a German in 1940-1945, instead of a South African during apartheid. On the other hand, there is one question that we can answer today: what are we doing here and now in the face of the worst crimes against humanity of the 21st century? I am obviously aiming at the internment, the arbitrary detention of more than a million completely innocent Uighurs, in concentration camps in Xinjiang, held by the Chinese communist regime. I am obviously targeting these campaigns of torture, forced labour and systematic rape of Uighur women. I obviously aim and accuse, I accuse China of these forced separations of children torn from their parents to be re-educated to Han, i.e. the ethnic majority in China. And it is in order to respond to these crimes that we are gathered today one last time, to mark a historic vote, to send a very strong signal to Beijing since our democratic assembly in Belgium and to say "Stop!", stop the atrocities because, yes, in Belgium, we must be among those who resist rather than the sheep in the flock. I am proud that our country can vote on this text tonight - I hope unanimously, as Mr De Roover said - and I hope that we can be proud of Belgium, which will become the sixth country in the world, after Canada, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Lithuania and the Czech Republic, to recognize this serious risk of genocide against the Uighurs. I also appeal to colleagues at the PTB. I think that tonight we can send a very strong signal to Beijing if we decide to vote unanimously on this text. It's not too late. You can still choose the camp of human dignity, human rights, equality. This question is not a question of the left or the right, but a question of justice, a basic question of freedom. Human beings are not confined simply because of their religion, simply because of their ethnic minority. It's out of the question. That is appalling and we must make it clear unanimously this evening, at the end of this vote. Words are important, colleagues. We have never really discussed the origins, the genealogy of these terms of "crime against humanity" and "genocide". I confess that I spent my night yesterday reading a book from Raphael Lemkin's chamber library. He's one of the greatest jurists of the 20th century. He is of Polish Jewish origin and lived the Shoah. He saw his family eliminated. It was he who forged the notion of genocide that did not exist until then. His colleague Hersch Lauterpacht, also of Jewish and Polish origin, professor of international law at Cambridge, forged the concept of crime against humanity. It is also interesting and important because it makes our debate more relevant to return to the sources of these basic terms and concepts of contemporary international law, which is now in force. A coincidence, a coincidence, both Hersch Lauterpacht and Raphaël Lemkin came from the same town of Lemberg formerly in Poland, now in Ukraine. Both lived under German occupation. Lemberg is not a corner like the others. Maybe it's a city you've never really heard of. Lemberg was then under the jurisdiction of one of the worst Nazi leaders, Hans Frank, born in 1900, former personal lawyer of Adolphe Hitler, governor general of occupied Poland. It was from Lemberg that Hans Frank announced the final solution in 1942. He also found himself in Nuremberg in 1946 tried and sentenced for crimes against humanity. Why summon the memoirs of these two jurists, Raphaël Lemkin and Hersch Lauterpacht? I think it is important to go beyond the technical, legal and legal reality of international law which has occupied us a great deal, that is true, and which is also the honour of our work in committee during two whole days of hearings. I think it is also important to pay tribute to the true intentions of those authors who have changed the course of the history of international law. It is true that, often, in our fight for the recognition of the Uighur genocide, we have come across critical questions from people who did not see murders in Xinjiang, who even said there was no genocide. Some even went further and told us: "Be careful, you risk getting rid of the notion of genocide by talking about genocide in Xinjiang!" I want to say, let's go back to the sources of law! Read Raphaël Lemkin again and what he said in the 1940s: "In general, genocide does not necessarily mean the immediate destruction of a nation except when it is carried out by mass murders. Rather, this term of genocide means a coordinated plan of various actions aimed at the destruction of essential foundations of the life of ethnic groups with the aim of exterminating these groups themselves. The aim of such a plan is to disintegrate the social and cultural institutions, the language, the national feelings, the religion and the economic life of these groups." It is true, as I readily acknowledge, that the terms of the 1948 Convention, the first adopted under the aegis of the United Nations, which punishes and prevents this crime of genocide, are more restrictive. As several lawyers have pointed out, as well as several reports of independent academics, international human rights NGOs, the crimes we are talking about in Xinjiang against the Uighur community all constitute the crime of genocide as described with the criteria listed in Article 2 of the 1948 UN Convention. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the response of this House, the response of our Parliament, must be unequivocal and absolutely clear. By destroying mosques, Uighur culture and language, the family ties of men, women and children, by imprisoning for life intellectual, academic and cultural leaders, yes, China kills the soul and heart of the Uighur people. It's not just a cultural genocide. It is also biological and physical, attacking women through forced sterilization campaigns. A recent report indicates that the birth rate among the Uighur population fell by 48.74 per cent between 2017 and 2019. It's never seen, nowhere else on earth! In the words of Vanessa Frangville, professor of Chinese Studies at the ULB and director of the EAST (ULB Centre fort East Asian Studies), if we do nothing, if we do not act today as parliamentarians, the Uighur people will be struck off the map in a generation. That is why we are meeting in plenary to send this very strong signal to Beijing. For yes, it would be contrary to morals as well as international law to limit ourselves to simply expressing our deepest concerns. No! The planned and intentional destruction of an ethnic minority has a name in international law. You must dare call a cat a cat. Yes, this is indeed a serious risk of ongoing genocide. To say it is good; to do it is better. I confess that it is our pride to be able to defend this text, which – again – was drawn up with different political parties, beyond the traditional lines. Why is Parliament acting in the circumstances? It is true that in Nuremberg it was a first for an international jurisdiction. Despite all the good intentions of the international community in 1946, as I know, other international tribunals have been established, as evidenced by the trial of the Rwandan genocide in 1994 and the Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. But let us be clear: in the case we are dealing with today, in the case of Xinjiang, where the Uighurs are victims of China's ultra-repressive policy, it will certainly never be possible to sue Xi Jinping, head of the Chinese communist regime, before an international jurisdiction. We must say things flatly, in a transparent way in the Belgian Parliament: the reason is simply that China has the right of veto in the Security Council. It rejected the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court of The Hague, as well as that of the International Court of Justice. It is therefore impossible to imagine that one day a major trial will be held in The Hague for crimes against humanity and genocide. That is why, once again, we must, as elected representatives of the Belgian people, as parliamentarians, as democratic representatives of a free country, dare to speak out this strong word, dare to take on our responsibilities both moral, ethical and legal under the 1948 Convention and dare to denounce this ongoing genocide. I would like to conclude by recalling that words are not enough. On the one hand, you cannot condemn the implausible, denounce crimes against humanity and, on the other, act as if nothing were happening and prosecute the business as usual with China. You cannot sacrifice the fundamental values of the European Union on the altar of international trade through increasingly extensive investments with China. This is the first reminder: the freezing of this investment agreement signed in December between the European Union and China, without any binding reference to international law and human rights. We are now making it clear here in the Belgian Parliament that this investment agreement between the European Union and China is onbespreekbaar as long as there is no binding reference to human rights and the prohibition of forced labour. The second call, the second concrete action, the second lever that we can activate this evening, at the end of the vote, is the end of the extradition agreements signed with the European countries to China. An individual who faces torture and the death penalty is not extradited to such a country. There is a third important appeal that we can make, which also has its full meaning. We sometimes have the impression that all this is happening thousands of kilometres away, when we know that several Western multinationals are benefiting from these absolutely abysmal industrial scales of forced labour and slavery, in the twenty-first century, of the Uighurs in China. We say, once again very frankly, through this resolution, stop imports of forced labour products into the chains of slavery in China. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end my speech without recognizing, with great gratitude, but also modesty, the enormous support given by these improbable fellow travellers, first of all from the Uighur community of Belgium. I know they're watching us from the gallery. I am moved to see Ekber, to see Ablimit Tursun, to see also this woman who had the courage to come and testify before our committee, Qelbinur Sidiq, a refugee in the Netherlands who has experienced the horror of these concentration camps in China. I am moved to see them again with us today, in the gallery, who have been fighting for years to ensure that these atrocities are finally recognized. It is important to pay tribute to them. I am thinking of President Adullam, Professor Vanessa Frangville, Dilnur Reyhan of the Uighur Institute of Europe in Paris. I'm also thinking about all these young people. What has struck me most during this fight for the recognition of the Uighur genocide, in recent months, it is all these young people who have mobilized in the four corners of the country, in Verviers, in Liège. These young people from the Uighurs minority, the second or third generation, are fighting for dignity. Young people from Tournai took leave from high school to attend parliamentary debates. These young people force the respect and admiration of our democratic assembly. Thank you from the bottom of the heart to all these workers' ankles of human dignity. Today, we pay tribute to you. This conviction in humanity and diversity no matter your skin colour, ethnicity, religion, gender is the greatness of our country. This evening Belgium, our small country, will be a little bigger because we dared to save a little humanity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u84	Madam President, in turn, I would like to express my group's pride in having been able to contribute to the emergence of this important text. We were among the first to be seriously concerned about the situation of this Uighur minority in China. Let me begin by recalling that this mainly Muslim population represents 25 million people living in the Xinjiang Autonomous Region. I also recall that the situation of Kazakhs and other Turkish peoples in this autonomous region of north-western China is equally worrying. For months, human rights organizations, including Human Rights Watch, have been accusing China of having interned at least one million Muslims in this region in what it calls political rehabilitation camps. I remember a dinner we had with the Chinese ambassador – the chairman of the committee and other colleagues – at which we collectively interviewed the ambassador about these camps. He explained to us that it was a way to educate very disadvantaged populations so that they could have easier access to employment. In the light of the revelations of these elements – which have become public since then – the cynicism of this reply that was made to us at the time by the Chinese ambassador is measured. It is hardly surprising that Beijing denies this figure of a million people and, as I have just said, speaks of vocational training centres, the aim being to help these people find employment and to keep them away, according to Chinese propaganda, from extremism and terrorism. As has obviously been done by previous colleagues, I would also like to point out that Uighur women would also be subjected to forced sterilization. That is what Mrs Sidik confirmed when she was heard by our Committee on Foreign Affairs. It was absolutely upsetting. She recounted facts that were all more unspeakable than each other. All of this, therefore, is, according to the experts who have come to share their impressive academic analyses and skills on this issue, evidence of China's ferocious will to harm a population by seeking to remove the identity of this group. This is called forced acculturation. Of course, we would like to thank these witnesses and experts once again for all the enlightenments and brilliant analyses they have given us and which have guided us in a very substantial way in our work, so that we can deliver to this House a text which seems to us to be in line with the gravity of the situation. While we obviously welcome the positions taken by our country within the United Nations and the European Union, we believe that, bilaterally, this situation must also be a priority. Beyond the shared findings, action must be taken to put in place mechanisms that will allow us to gather sufficient evidence to objectiveize a firm and solid approach rooted in recognized legal principles. We must also act with the Chinese authorities to remind them that our country cannot accept that the rights of a minority are so and so brutally violated and, moreover, that the physical, psychological and cultural integrity of the members of that minority is violated. For all of these composite and interconnected elements lead us indeed to fear - and that is the profound meaning of the text that we are voting for today - a serious risk of genocide. These practices also constitute violations of many human rights, including the prohibition of forced labour, freedom of religion, freedom of expression, the right to privacy, and the prohibition of arbitrary detention, which are enshrined in customary international law. For the Socialist Party, it is by having a firm and solid approach, based on recognized legal principles, pointing out the right qualifications and legal consequences of human rights violations against these people by China, that we can act most effectively. The very existence of these serious and systematic violations of peremptory norms of international law leads to specific obligations for Belgium. They stem from the international responsibility of States, and this was fully explained by one of the experts interviewed by the Commission. Indeed, as Belgians and as Europeans, we sit in international bodies. We must therefore condemn these various violations of international law, those crimes of persecution and these massive violations of human rights, which can indeed constitute crimes against humanity. China has received criticism and sanctions for these acts from almost all over the world for the purpose of political rehabilitation, and we, too, must take appropriate measures, in cooperation with other States, stakeholders of the Genocide Convention, to prevent any risk of genocide. This is our overriding responsibility. We must call for the establishment of an independent international commission of inquiry, in order to establish in the most precise manner the relevant facts and legal qualifications. Finally, we must ensure that we do not provide any assistance in maintaining the situation resulting from violations of the rights of the Uighur population. This has immense implications for our bilateral relations with China. It will therefore also be a matter of ensuring that trade between Belgium and China cannot, in any way, contribute to the violation of the rights of this minority, and I am thinking in particular here of the prohibition of forced labour, which has already prompted several large companies to review or reconsider their production relations with China. As I have already said in committee, it is therefore imperative that we move as quickly as possible towards a binding legislative framework on due diligence at Belgian and European level. My group is also defending a text on this subject and will be very attentive to its good development in Parliament. It will also be necessary to remain more than vigilant about the negotiation of the EU-China investment agreement. Respect for human rights must remain a top priority. This is obviously part of our most essential missions in the concert of nations but also in the field of international relations. I would like to conclude, Madam President, with your permission, by speaking to our colleagues in the PTB. I would like to remind them that human rights are universal rights. They are not variable geometry. They must be defended everywhere and all the time. Even if China's opponents used these brutal attacks against the Uighurs to gain points against China, that would not change the facts. These concentration camps exist. Forced labour exists. Forced sterilizations exist. Killings exist. The process of acculturation is indisputable. Yes, a vote other than a unanimous vote today would, I think, be morally condemned before history. It is the responsibility of all of us to send a strong and clear signal by a unanimous vote, earlier on this text which, once again, is historic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposals before us address human rights violations against Uighur and other ethnic minorities in the Xinjiang region. We have spent a great deal of time in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, including hearings with experts on the criteria for recognition of genocide, but also with a direct witness, which of course none of us, Members of Parliament, have left untouched. I must confess that it was a pity that the proposal was finally chased by the committee, almost with the carwatts, with very little respect for the opposition. An amendment tabled at 11 o'clock almost rewrote the whole proposal. The members of the committee, at least the members of the opposition, were asked to examine and process everything within an hour. Such an approach is unworthy of a resolution of this kind, which is very important, as any statement here has already endorsed. However, that will obviously be a problem for the current majority. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make a number of points on the substance. Our group strongly condemns the systematic human rights violations against the Uighurs, in particular their detention in concentration camps, where they are indoctrinated to swear allegiance to the Chinese Communist Party and also become victims of torture, inhuman treatment, executions and organ robbery. Ladies and gentlemen, these are totalitarian practices which can be expected from a state which is at least culturally communist. Under Xi Jinping, the Chinese regime is moving on a fast train to a steel-hard dictatorship, which is committed to full submission or even extermination of ethnic or cultural minorities, such as the Uighurs, but also of Tibetans and Falun Gong supporters. Chinese citizens are closely kept in line with all kinds of social credit systems and espionage. There is no room for political dissidents. There is no longer any question of Hong Kong's constitutional sovereignty or democracy. China is not only despotic in its own country, but also in the region it is moving towards annexation of Taiwan by military means in the long term and is taking the South China Sea on a rotten voyage for the benefit of the Chinese naval bases. All this, ladies and gentlemen, to demonstrate the aggressive way in which China operates. Recently, some of our MEPs, and even members of our committee such as Mr Cogolati, were blacklisted in Beijing. Pure political harassment against critical foreign voices, thus, which China constantly dismisses as undermining its sovereignty and interference in internal affairs. Chinese sovereignty now extends a great deal. What we are all discussing here on minority human rights is more than justified. But did this really fall out of the sky? Have we not had a major problem with Beijing for much longer that no one dared name and address? From the outset, my party, the Flemish Interest, raised not only China's increasingly aggressive policy, but also its economic influence. Because it is also a great threat to our parts. We can say a great deal about the damaging and unfair competition of the Chinese manufacturing industry, or the counterfeiting industry, and the takeovers of our strategic sectors. However, it would lead us too far at the moment and distract us too far from the essence of what we are talking about today. But it is economically that this government is showing a considerable amount of gullibility. We see that in the investment agreement that is being discussed at European level, but also the extradition treaty with China recently ratified by this Parliament, the eyebrows are frowning. In view of the human rights violations against minorities and critics of the regime that have already been widely demonstrated here, it is, in our view, madness to conclude an extradition treaty with that dictatorship that is mentioned. International organisations, human rights experts and persecuted minorities and activists fleeing China indicate that they are extremely concerned about this type of extradition agreement. We know that Beijing is using this kind of treaties as a stick behind the door to assert its legal position all over the world and to keep dissidents, even abroad, in their grip. The diplomatic guarantees given by China in this respect obviously offer little certainty, as experts also confirm. China, like the liberalisation of its market and fair free trade, keeps breaking its promises. Colleagues, however well-intentioned, the amendments to this proposal will only suspend the extradition treaty if the situation worsens. That is what the proposal says. Now, ladies and gentlemen, what needs to be done so that you do not return Chinese nationals to such a regime? Is there really any need for further evidence of what is going on to dare to suspend this kind of treaties? I know it is in the Treaty, but I fear, with the majority parties who signed this resolution and who also confirmed the ratification of the extradition treaty earlier this year, that this will probably remain a dead letter. I hope it will not be, but practice gives us little hope in this respect. The positive treatment of China was mainly the case in the initial proposal of the Open Vld. That was very strange. China's pussy treatment, which is still reflected in the text as amended, is probably part of our Prime Minister's Beijing policy. But in what world do we live as political parties, including the liberals, make positive relations with a communist dictatorship a spearhead? This, in our view, says a great deal about the erosion of our values and the fact that they have long ceased to be defended as they should be by the parties who use them. One thing is for sure, ladies and gentlemen, one cannot trust communist dictatorships. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude by saying that our group will support this resolution because of the continuing violations of human rights against minorities. The recognition and condemnation of a silent genocide against the Uighur ethnic minorities with all the atrocities associated with it is, in our view, a proper assessment of what is going on in Xinjiang. A strong signal is therefore needed. At the same time, we ask that this government stop paying lip service and finally, together with a strong condemnation in this regard, adapt the politics of appeal to the reality and need of the Western world. The policy of cooperation and openness seems to have never helped to liberalise or democratize China, quite the contrary. Our party is in favour of a hard line against China, otherwise we risk being fooled again. Finally, I would like to explain the amendment that we are retabled today. The amended proposal referring to 'Uygurs and other ethnic-Turkish Muslim minorities' is too limited for us. We want to replace the title with 'all minorities'. Non-Muslim minorities are also being persecuted in China and confronted with forced organ extractions, so-called education camps and other methods of persecution. We are thinking very clearly of the Falun Gongaanghangers and the Christians. We hope that this amendment will still be approved by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too am pleased that this resolution is before us. I hope, of course, that it will be adopted unanimously. However, we have taken our time for this resolution. It doesn't make sense that this was dragged on a trot. We have given a week, including the opposition, to review the amendments. It is sometimes said that I am optimistic or naive when I say that I can have an impact on world politics in the federal parliament of a small country like Belgium. I am aware, of course, that major powers such as Russia and China will not immediately bind if we condemn human rights violations, but the signal we are sending today is indeed being heard. First of all, this is at least a recognition of the suffering of the people of the Uighurs. I say to the Uighurs who are now in the public gallery: we acknowledge your suffering, we know what is happening and we will take action. Of course that signal is not only heard by the people of the Uighurs, of course also by China. China reacted as if bitten by a wasp. China warned against a possible deterioration in bilateral relations and demanded that we correct this error immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, there is only one answer to that, namely that it is never wrong to condemn the persecution and abuse of thousands of people. It is never wrong to demand that human rights violations be stopped immediately. We must not be intimidated, even if China may impose new sanctions on us, whether or not against our Parliament, in what context I commend Mr Cogolati for his perseverance. Human rights are universal. A plea for human rights is not interference in an internal matter. I am quite a supporter of the UN's Responsibility to Protect Doctrine, which states that in the event of human rights violations which are not committed by the national authorities of that country, it is the responsibility of another country to act against them and to ensure that further inhumanities are prevented. That is what we are doing today. This can be seen in the world, because it is becoming increasingly clear that China is out of line with the Uighur minority. The masks are falling off. Eyes are opening. We have heard the sad figures a few times. Hundreds of thousands of Uighurs were deported to camps and forced into forced labour. 1.8 to 3 million Uighurs are held at random in so-called re-education centres, where they have to deal with food shortages, torture, abuse and sexual abuse. Almost 1 million children, including babies, would be separated from their parents. Women should be abortioned or sterilized in the camps. That's horrible. I am therefore pleased that, at least in committee, we have come to a consensus text with a very strong message. It is also explicitly recognised that there is a serious risk of genocide against the Uighur minority and that we must do everything we can to prevent it. This is not just about words and general condemnations, we are also calling for action. Our group had its own resolution, which was also laid down in the Senate by Mr Sabine de Bethune. We are in favour not only of diplomatic pressure but also of the financial and economic aspects of this human rights crisis. Of course, China is one of the largest cotton producers in the world. The Uighur Autonomous Community alone provides 20% of world cotton production. There is a risk that we will also be wearing cotton clothes from this region today. Over the past week, the French court has also opened an investigation into five major fashion groups, which may have benefited from cotton produced in Xinjiang. These are the well-known fashion companies we all know from our big shopping streets: Bershka, Uniqlo to the Spanish parent company of fashion chain Zara. We must continue to play a leading role there so that companies do not become complicit in these gross violations of human rights. We have included a number of very clear issues. On the one hand, we must tackle them at European Union level, with, for example, strict import restrictions. On the other hand, if nothing happens, we must examine additional measures to ensure that we do not consume or use products produced by forced labour. Of course, we are in favour of a structural solution at European level on due diligence and duty of care. However, a strong and supportive national framework may also be developed. I am also pleased that hearings are about to begin in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. This will be a very important tool to prevent forced labour and such violations of the right to work. We must also ensure that our postal heads in the countries where the violations are taking place are responsive and that those countries continue to be called upon to do so. They must carry out checks on that supply chain to ensure that human rights violations are not committed directly or indirectly. I am pleased that several companies have decided to boycott production from Xinjiang, which is well known, such as H&M, Nike and Adidas. That is a very important signal. It is only by pulling together and by a combination of economic and diplomatic pressure that we are hitting China where it really hurts, namely in the financial and economic field. In this way, we really make it clear that it is about a horrific oppression that must stop immediately. We are sending that signal very clearly with the motion for a resolution. It is not naive, but sends a clear signal and makes a world of difference, both for the Uighurs and for China, that finds that there are many countries that no longer tolerate the situation and that it touches them in the wallet. I would like to thank everyone for their good cooperation and I hope that the motion for a resolution will be accepted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you today, on the day this resolution is discussed, that the PTB disapproves of China's handling of the situation in Xinjiang. The country has been facing jihadist movements and terrorist attacks in that province for years. Between 1992 and 2013, a series of deadly attacks took place and claimed the lives of hundreds of people. Faced with this, the Chinese authorities have chosen a very repressive approach. According to a Chinese report of March 2019, there have been at least 43,000 Uighurs convicted of terrorism and illegal activities in Xinjiang since 2014. This is a disproportionate figure for a population of 10 million Uighurs. There would also be hundreds of thousands of other Uighurs forced to follow deradicalization programs. This is an unacceptable situation for us. In a letter dated 1 November 2019, a dozen United Nations experts are also very critical of the application of Chinese anti-terrorist laws in Xinjiang. I quote: "We are aware of the many security challenges facing China and the duty of the state to ensure the safety and security of the population, including through preventive approaches. However, we are gravely concerned that the measures provided for in the anti-terrorism law to achieve this objective are neither necessary nor proportionate. The disproportionate action of the authorities focused on the repression of minority rights may increase any security risk." That said, ladies and gentlemen, we must not be naive. Behind the sudden interest of some Western governments in the fate of the Uighurs, there are clearly other interests. China's economic and technological advances clearly threaten the dominance of the United States and Western countries at the global level. The NATO military alliance and the European Union call China a "systemic rival". The recent NATO and G7 summits have confirmed this attitude with fairly clear statements in this regard. Each war is preceded by a demonization of the adversary. Today, the same methods are used by American imperialism, which has a long history of black and grey propaganda against countries that oppose its interests. We remember the lies about the weapons of mass destruction that preceded the war in Iraq or the lies that were used to justify the war in Libya, to name only those two countries that have become fields of ruins following so-called humanitarian interventions and have seen their living conditions fall back decades. How can we believe those who bombed Muslim populations in the Middle East destroying their states, with hundreds of thousands of deaths and millions of refugees, and who now claim to defend Muslims in China? Palestinians have been under military occupation and apartheid for decades without any real sanctions being imposed against Israel. The Federal Parliament even rejected a resolution last year calling for sanctions to be imposed on the State of Israel as long as it continues to violate dozens of UN resolutions and international law. Yemen is the scene of a serious military aggression by a coalition led by Saudi Arabia since 2014, described by the United Nations as the worst humanitarian crisis in the world, and Western governments have undertaken nothing in consequence against their Saudi ally. In India, the nationalist party of Narendra Modi has been pursuing a policy of systematic persecution against Muslims for years and is building camps in the State of Assam to deport Muslim populations from which it has withdrawn Indian nationality. None of these situations bring strong interventions or campaigns on the part of Western states. Israel, Saudi Arabia and India, on the contrary, remain close allies of the United States and the West. The PTB is fighting for respect for human rights against Islamophobia and oppression of minorities and against war. We are not in line with the logic of the cold war in which we are evolving today. On the contrary, we need a broad movement that defends dialogue and peace, which is why our group will abstain from this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed taken the time to draw up a strong proposal for a resolution on the subject. The Members of Parliament of Flemish Interest seem to have forgotten that there was a week to review the amended text. Today, at least, Parliament will send a strong signal. I had hoped that we could do so unanimously, but the previous group has clearly indicated that it is looking at human rights with a certain selectivity. It remains unclear to me why it remains so difficult for the PVDA colleagues to call a camp a camp. It is true, we are talking about China, a great power. But as an elected Liberal MEP, nothing or nobody will restrict my freedom of speech, especially when it comes to human rights. It is also open to the Chinese Parliament to adopt resolutions or make statements if it is concerned about sailing in the European Union or Belgium. In the end, it is the states that have to act as a kind of watchdog on the international stage. Respect for parliamentary freedom is not a one-way street. In the Chamber we adopt many resolutions. We are doing this because human rights are at the heart of our Belgian domestic and foreign policy. Today it is no different and we will do the same for the human rights of the Uighur community. A few weeks ago, during the hearings, we listened to Mrs Sidik's courageous testimony, a testimony that went through marrow and bone. That testimony is extremely important to encourage other Uighur women to dare speak out about the atrocities committed against their community. Those who commit rape, sexual abuse and torture must and will be punished for this. My group is committed to this and we will always be committed to it. Freedom is central to liberal democracies: free to believe, free to speak his language, free to have sexual rights in his own body and as a woman. The sexual and reproductive rights of women are protected internationally. They're getting pressure all the time. With our motion for a resolution, Mr Liekens and I are clearly addressing the crimes against Uighur women. We had noticed that these were hardly raised by other national parliaments. Colleagues, never again, that is the promise made by our ancestors, a promise that rests on each of us today. It rests on our shoulders to ensure that the past does not repeat itself. We need an international investigation, a UN rapporteur and access to international observers and independent experts. We should not approve this text in the idealistic hope that something will change tomorrow, but in order to remain faithful to our values and to preserve our own legitimacy and credibility. Of course, we must not be blind to one of the greatest human rights violations of this era. There is a duty to prevent history from repeating itself. On the basis of this prevention obligation, our country must act, all the states of the world must act. If each national parliament follows us in this, if we can persuade each national government to do what we ask our government to do in this resolution, then we can do something for the Uighurs. Finally, I would like to highlight a part of the text that has not yet been sufficiently highlighted. China is a global superpower, but it is becoming increasingly hard and hostile. It is not just about the Uighurs, it is also about democracy in Hong Kong, the rising pressure on Taiwan and so much more. We regret this, because so many global challenges can only be solved by working together. We therefore call in our proposal for the dialogue to continue. It is only through diplomacy and dialogue that we can build a strong, safe and peaceful future together. We have different ideas and visions, but human rights are universal. My request to China is clear, namely to grant access to objective UN bodies and to engage in dialogue. We can achieve so much by working together, but this can only be done if international law and international standards are respected. Today we can give a strong and above all effective signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u89	The rise of the People's Republic of China in world politics is actually one of the biggest global changes since the fall of the Berlin Wall. China's growing importance in international relations also poses many challenges. Relations with China in the coming years will take place in two dimensions. First and foremost, China will increasingly shape economic, environmental, social and political developments and challenges. China is therefore a world power, which we cannot isolate, nor ignore, and therefore a permanent dialogue seems necessary. Secondly, conflicts of interest and value are increasing. China is not only a superpower with which dialogue will probably remain necessary, but at the same time an economic competitor and an antagonist in terms of ideology and society organisation. The Front Group will resolutely defend the European model of democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms linked to social market economy, while the Chinese model is clearly based on authoritarianism and state capitalism. The present proposal for a resolution deals precisely with large-scale human rights violations, particularly against the Uighurs, within that authoritarian framework. We note with great concern that the political situation and the civil rights situation in China has deteriorated steadily in recent years. The judiciary is not independent and the Chinese Communist Party has significantly strengthened its control over all segments of society. Fundamental rights and freedoms such as freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of association, freedom of demonstration and freedom of religion are severely restricted. The media are used for opinion control and digital techniques are used for social surveillance. The area of civil society is getting smaller and smaller. In addition, serious violations of human rights, especially in the Xinjiang region and in relation to Tibet and other ethnic minorities, which were perhaps less addressed in the hearing, but of course also important, as well as the suppression of dissident opinions. As we have learned from the hearings with legal experts, but also from the very compelling testimony, and as the reports of human rights organisations, whose investigations are very reliable, show, there are very serious violations of human rights in the Xinjiang region. Uighurs and other residents are arrested and detained for no reason in criminal camps, abused, exploited and raped. The violations are so serious that there are crimes against humanity, but also a serious risk of genocide. The other speakers have explained how we reached that conclusion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Acknowledging this as a Parliament is very important, because it is important that we, society, give the signal that we do not accept it and will never accept it. Colleagues of the PVDA, it is a pity that you will not support this resolution. I have heard the explanation, especially about the role of the United States, although the resolution is about China. How is it that your party stands up for labour rights all over the world, but at the same time is refusing to stand up to the forced labour that the Uighurs must undergo. This forced labour is undoubtedly demonstrated by international human rights organisations, which you consider to be reliable in other human rights violations. However, when it comes to China, choose to ignore all reports from those organizations. How can your party stand up for international law, for example in the conflict between Israel and Palestine, but look the other way when renowned lawyers come to our committee to explain how international law is being harmed? For example, Professor Dubuisson has explained very clearly that there is a clear violation of the International Convention on the Elimination of Any Form of Racial Discrimination. Do you then believe so sacredly in communist ideology that you are no longer even able to see the excesses of ideology, namely that the pursuit of absolute and total equality suppresses freedom? That is exactly what is happening in China. There, freedom of expression, freedom of association, freedom of religion and freedom of demonstration are being horribly suppressed. Freedom is an essential part of a democracy. After all, it is one of the three pillars needed for democracy. Without freedom, there is no democracy, but there is a dictatorship. Moreover, it is frightening for me to read the explanation of the PVDA in the press. After all, it is an exact copy of China's response to our resolution, namely that we do not interfere with the internal affairs of another state. However, China has to deal with the internal affairs of our State, because that is of course not the way the world works. All the countries of the world are inextricably linked and silent by trade flows and exchanges between individuals, refusing to say anything about our relations with China, looking away from what is happening and pretending nothing is going on, there are two words: guilty negligence. We qualify human rights violations as a serious risk of genocide, and so it is also necessary to act, because Article 1 of the 1948 Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide requires all parties to take preventive measures. Diplomatic pressure is needed, but not enough. Targeted sanctions against persons involved in human rights violations are necessary, but not sufficient. The prevention of the extradition of persons who may be tortured is therefore of the utmost importance, and that is also what the government is requested to do. In addition, the government is also asked to review the bilateral extradition treaty with China, especially if the situation worsens. It is also important to act through our economic relations, which is why we believe that the adoption of the EU-China investment agreement should be frozen on 30 December, especially as long as the Chinese sanctions against European individuals and bodies that raise human rights violations, such as our colleague, continue to apply. It is also important to insist on binding and enforceable agreements on social, environmental and climate rights, human rights and labour rights. If it ever comes to that, Belgium will only accept the EU-China investment agreement if the standards are binding and enforceable. Almost every month we have to read in the press that goods from the Xinjiang region and made in forced labour end up in the European internal market. By allowing that, we are also maintaining the system. That is why the motion for a resolution calls for a European-wide campaign for strict import restrictions to ban goods made in forced labour in the European internal market. Pending action at European level, the government is asked to examine what measures can be taken at national level against imports of products related to serious human rights violations, such as forced labour or child labour. This may be possible under Article 36 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. In this respect, the duty of care of businesses is also important. The motion for a resolution therefore calls on the government to play a leading role in the development of a European legislative framework on the obligation of care and to develop a national framework for this purpose. We have tabled a proposal for this, together with colleagues from the PS. Madam President, our group will of course support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u90	Madam President, I welcome the adoption – which I hope is as broad as possible – of an important text, which has been taken up by Mr Cogolati in particular. It is important to be able to describe the great crimes that are committed around the world – in this case, they are committed in China – in a fair and correct manner. We have done serious work on this issue in the Committee on External Relations. This "crime against humanity" and this "serious risk of genocide" are qualifications that seem to me to be quite up to the stakes that are taking place in Xinjiang today. This text already has an impact and an importance. We see this in the threats and intimidation we receive from China. Contrary to what our colleague from the PTB says, it is not easy to point the finger at crimes committed in China, human rights abuses. This may also be why it took a little time because these crimes have been committed for a number of years. On the contrary, we are worried every time we point out the problems that are happening in this vast country. We know there will be intimidation, we know there will be risks of retaliation, some other countries have already known it at their expense. Today we are showing courage in the face of these crimes committed by the Chinese regime today. These crimes concern a large population. One seeks to eradicate one's identity, one's culture, one's religion, one's habits. It is also a crime that probably prefigures the way in which China intends to organize social order and relations in its own country, but also international relations. This authoritarianism, this desire to change the paradigm at the political level, to finally erase democracy, concern not only China but also its vision of the world. No, it is not easy to speak to China and I cannot accept the deeply shocking argument of the PTB that it is a matter of demonizing China, which would be a prefiguration of the war that Europe and the United States want to wage against it. That's a pretty grotesque argument! We are not waging any war against China. His will is that of great power. For my part, I welcome the wish of each country to become one, but then it must be in compliance with the long-standing rules of the United Nations, involving respect for human rights and the way in which we all work together to protect the dignity and freedom of every individual in every corner of the planet. This is certainly not the case with China today. This motion for a resolution has an essential political significance, but it also has an economic dimension. Our group will support all efforts to develop a binding legislative framework to define the responsibility of companies wishing to trade with China, in particular with Xinjiang, avoiding products from that region that would result from forced labour. These measures seem important to me for the future. We will remain attentive to the establishment of a binding framework in this regard. I also rely heavily on Belgian diplomacy to implement and follow up on this resolution. Indeed, this text seems to me to be essential, clear and courageous. Our Parliament can be proud of that. We are acting to ensure that in the future the dignity and freedoms of these people are respected. I also hope that China will hear this message and that it will not be content with words of opposition, telling us that what we have investigated and received reports about does not exist. It would be a tragic mistake on his part. I therefore hope that it will hear the message from the Belgian Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too am proud to be part of a courageous Parliament tonight. Courageous because the situation of the Uighurs in China is unacceptable. The People's Republic of China and its Government once again show us that their priority is not the protection of human rights. Amnesty International reported on the inhumane, dramatic situation in the Xinjiang region (murder, torture, inhuman treatment, ban on leaving the territory, abusive surveillance system, forced labour, etc.) Unfortunately, the list is too long to mention in its entirety here. The Human Rights Watch report of 19 April 2021 is equally overwhelming, especially when one discovers that the Uighur population is not the only population to be persecuted by the Chinese authorities. According to the report, Chinese leaders are responsible for widespread and systematic policies of mass detention, torture and cultural persecution among other crimes that can obviously be considered crimes against humanity. Beijing claims to offer "professional" training and "deradicalization". This rhetoric cannot obscure the sad reality of what is happening in these camps and must be condemned by the entire international scene. In this regard, we welcome the fact that the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights should also follow up and report on the situation in Xinjiang. However, while such actions by the United Nations are welcome, they should not prevent States from taking strong action. The Director of Human Rights Watch in China said that "it is increasingly clear that a coordinated international response is needed to put an end to the crimes against humanity committed by China", although China is a powerful State that is now difficult to circumvent - and we recognize that - in international and commercial relations. Ladies and gentlemen, we are very pleased to see this motion for a resolution come to fruition. First of all, we welcome the fact that this motion for a resolution takes into account a multitude of national, European and international responses. My group remains convinced that one way to ensure respect for human rights in the world remains the implementation of existing international legal tools. It is in this context that the Government's request to continue its efforts in the bilateral dialogue with China to promote the ratification of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and other tools remains necessary. Moreover, we find that the solution is unfortunately often economic. That is why we understand and encourage the implementation of the government's request to freeze the approval of the EU-China Comprehensive Investment Agreement on 30 December 2020, as long as the Chinese sanctions are in force. Our government must also be able to put pressure on all levels of power, and on all bodies. We therefore support Belgium in its efforts to the European Union and the United Nations. We have, I must say, been particularly outraged by the fact that the spokesman for Chinese diplomacy, Zhao Lijan, called on Belgium to "immediately correct its error", denouncing one of our colleagues, Mr Cogolati, who is still on the list of European personalities targeted by Chinese sanctions. This Chinese intimidation of one of our colleagues is outrageous. It shows how unwilling Xi Jinping's regime is to take strong steps to respect the fundamental rights of the Uighurs in its territory. I would even add, to the attention of my colleagues in the PTB, that this fact alone, this intimidation alone, would have deserved a strong unanimity of the whole House. I regret that this cannot be the case. [[Applause]] For all these reasons, our group will strongly support this motion for a resolution, hoping that all the measures requested of the Government will be implemented by the Belgian Government. We also hope that the only party that has abstained will eventually go beyond its current geopolitical viewpoint and ideologies. Indeed, we do not negotiate with human rights, let alone with crimes against humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u92	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u93	* * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u94	The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u95	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u96	Katja Gabriels, Khalil Aouasti, Philippe Goffin, Cécile Thibaut, Koen Geens, Ben Segers, Stefaan Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u97	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs De Wit, who refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u98	Madam President, I will take the floor briefly on this bill. It's actually a bill. I think it was initially intended to call it a draft, but it has become a legislative proposal. The difficult points have been taken out and it has been dealt with with with urgency by the Chamber. The reason I am taking the floor is because we abstained from this bill. Maybe that's gonna take a word of explanation. Firstly, as far as urgency is concerned, we wonder whether this proposal was really urgent or whether the urgency was created. That is a formal aspect. It happens often, I believe, that the urgency is created. Secondly, this is a legislative proposal containing various provisions. It's going very wide. We agree with most of the provisions. The evaluation of the family courts, for example. We are, of course, in favour of it taking place. The period considered may be a little too wide, but we are voting in favour of it. The reason why we are abstaining is actually because of two provisions. Firstly, Article 3 is about the cross-border. A small correction has been made to this bill, but we were opposed in principle. So we maintain that principled attitude for this version. Secondly, because of the last provisions of this bill, concerning the recruitment of additional magistrates and staff in Brussels in connection with the process of attacks. We naturally want this process to proceed in the right way. These recruitments may be necessary, but we know that problems have been in Brussels for many years now. A measurement of the workload has been requested for many years, but it has not yet been done. We also know that an audit is being requested in Brussels, but we still have no results. Now we see that ad hoc magistrates and staff are recruited outside the framework. That is why we will abstain from this proposal. It contains a number of interesting provisions, for example on the database of judgments and judgments. This is a very important legislative proposal that we adopted in the previous legislature at the initiative of Mr Verherstraeten in both the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But apparently that's a little out of date by now. Unfortunately, because this is a very important project for the Justice Department. This is now being postponed again. Unfortunately, we have to go along with it because we are faced with facts. We hope, of course, that steps will be taken in the right direction so that, if a new project is to come, it can be completed quickly. These are the reasons why we are abstaining from this bill, which was originally a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u99	Madam President, Minister, our group has no problem with the substance of this proposal for an urgent resolution on justice. But we have to be honest, in a number of cases, we are dealing with alleged urgent provisions. Not all of them, I admit, but I'll get back to you in a minute. We have no problem supporting the urgency of the requested amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, as well as the amendments to the Civil Code. Of course, we also have no problem with setting up the temporary establishment plan in view of the assistance process on the attacks of 22 March 2016. After all, even if this process does not start until September 2022, we are well aware that it will not be self-evident in the field to find quickly enough magistrates and clerks. We do not, of course, have any problem with the office allowance granted to the judicial staff for teleworking in the context of the current health crisis, for which you, quite rightly, are creating a legal basis here. I must say, Minister, that as far as the urgency is concerned, I can also understand the amendment to the law of 30 July 2013 on the introduction of the family and youth courts. That evaluation will be postponed to September 2023. Indeed, 2020 was absolutely not a normal year of operation, for the sake of corona, certainly not for family and youth courts and indeed cannot provide a proper basis for such an evaluation. That's right. Minister, I have some experience in the field and I can say that this is no longer the case for 2021, where the situation is more or less normal. The evaluation could take place in 2022. I therefore regret the delay to September 2023. I believe that there are a number of problems on the ground that will emerge in the evaluation. It may be useful to work on this and to introduce concrete solutions. Our group also feels that the requested postponement is not so much a matter of the covid crisis as of the fact that no university institution in this country is prepared to respond to the public tender you have launched. I really don't understand this. Perhaps the conditions imposed were far too strict, I cannot judge, but for a university it must be an interesting and challenging task to be able to make an evaluation and also an educational task, which may be linked to interesting and useful proposals for improvement. Another matter with regard to the urgency with which we have difficulty is the amendments to the Court's Code. We do not have any comments in substance, but I do not see why this should be voted on. I also particularly regret that the publication of judgments and judgments is being postponed again. However, this could be a particularly useful information bank in the field, especially for judges, lawyers, students, universities and so on. Minister, I would really like to urge you to quickly address the gaps in the law of 5 May 2019 that prevent the creation of a high-quality database of judgments and judgments today. This seems to require a new legal framework, but please give the various stakeholders you want to involve the task of doing this quickly and thoroughly and preferably within a clear timetable. Let me take a look outside the borders of the Member States and perhaps give you a great deal of useful and useful information, with which I repeat what I said in committee. The homework should not be performed from scratch. Once again, the people on the ground will be very grateful to you. With regard to the content of the legislative proposal/draft, our group has no reservations, no comments and no criticism. We shall therefore support this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u100	Madam President, I will make a brief intervention. We are now accustomed to receiving texts that contain different provisions in which there is "drinking and eating". It is also a way of slipping provisions that are not acceptable in the middle of provisions that go in the right direction, which can blur the tracks. This is still the case with this bill. I'll start with the positive. A provision creates a temporary framework for the recruitment of staff to deal with the Brussels bombings. This is an important trial that requires strengthened human resources. We support this strengthening even if we prefer respect for legal frameworks, even in normal times. We also support the granting of a telework bonus to judicial staff, which seems to be the least we can do. Secondly, I note two points, in my negative view, which we cannot support. The proposal contains a technical correction made necessary by the increase in road fines. My group has voted against this new unjust tax, hidden behind the name "administrative costs". We are therefore necessarily against this new provision. Another provision adapts the Judicial Code following the recently passed law which allows magistrates who wish to do so to work up to 75 years instead of 73 years. Again, my group cannot support this reform, which aims to fill the gaps in the judiciary by seeking retired judges. The sector doesn't want it. Most importantly, the judges want the necessary staff to be engaged in accordance with legal frameworks. My group and I have made this request many times. In conclusion, there is good and bad in this text. That is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u101	Madam President, I would like to respond briefly to the speeches made by my fellow Members. First of all, I would like to say to the chairman of our committee that Rules 9, 10 and 11, in which we recruit magistrates, are absolutely necessary in order for the second Assisenhof to work in Brussels so that we can start and complete the process of the attacks properly. If we did not replace those magistrates before the court of first instance and the court of appeal of Brussels, we might have to close certain chambers. Of course, we cannot afford to do that, partly in view of the current situation in Brussels. Just think of what happened recently at the Antwerp appeal court in the Julie Van Espen case, when a chamber was closed. There is no way we can afford such things. That is why we absolutely insist on the adoption of Articles 9, 10 and 11. It is indeed a bill and not a bill. Initially, we had planned to bring a bill to the Chamber. The Council of State was asked to give the opinion in good time before 24 June, but that did not get to us in time. That's why we chose a bill. Indeed, most of the provisions must be dealt with urgently because the entry into force of certain matters must be postponed. Mrs Dillen, it is true that there is one provision that escapes that urgency, in particular the amendment of the Code of Justice. But in dealing with the previous law, we had, after the intervention of colleague Geens, Promised to correct an oblivion in another text. We have therefore kept our word on this. As regards Mr Dillen's comment on the database, which is not only useful, it is also necessary. Good work has been done. However, further monitoring has shown that the 2019 law does not provide for a source database, an original database of all judgments and judgments. A source database could then be used to publish. The Data Protection Authority has pointed this out to us. Hence the need for a new law. Over the past few months, the three lectures have worked hard on corrections. They reached an agreement on 19 May. The intention now is to submit that new draft to the Council of State, to the Data Protection Authority and then to Parliament. That's a matter of law. A second matter is the technical side. Once such a database exists and judgments and judgments are published, we want this to be done with respect for the people mentioned in it. This means that judgments and judgments must be anonymised and pseudonymised. This presupposes that the magistrate must be technically able to fix this without excessive workload. I conclude with Mr Boukili's remarks, particularly those concerning the Judicial Code. Mr Boukili, what we are doing here is at the explicit request of the magistrate, but at the same time, as I explained in the Committee on Justice, we are going to increase the number of staff in my department by the end of 2022, at a rate of 1,400. In addition, more than 800 judges and administrative staff will be engaged to strengthen justice. So it is not a question of opposing each other, what we are doing here is in combination with the strengthening of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u102	I would just like to make a small correction: when I say that the magistrates are against, I am simply relaying the opinion of the Association of Trade Union Judges (ASM), which has positioned itself against this provision. Not all judges are seeking justice, although I welcome the recruitment of judges, who are so necessary for the functioning of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u103	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u104	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2084/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2084/4) The title has been amended by the Commission in "Proposal for a law on urgent provisions in the field of justice". The title was changed by the committee to "legislative proposal containing urgent provisions on justice." The bill has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u105	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u106	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mrs Thibaut and Mrs Verhelst, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u107	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, our group welcomes the fact that companies will now be able to be created on a purely digital basis. We naturally also welcome further digitisation of the notarial profession. But in our view, this draft law is also one of the missed opportunities. There has long been dissatisfaction with the moderate speed and manner in which companies are set up in Belgium, as well as with the compulsory intervention of notaries in the creation of limited liability companies and associated costs. Certainly a standard company should be able to be set up much faster and cheaper. In a number of EU countries, a company can be set up in one day without any problems. Think of our guide countries The Netherlands and France; in our southern neighbors there is no compulsory intervention by a notary for the creation of companies. The present reform could not at least have been used to put the mandatory intervention of notaries and the associated costs at the expense of standard settings. That could have made our country a lot more entrepreneurial. A few weeks ago, in Knack, there was once again a disenchanting article about the exuberant profit margins of the notaries. Over the years, notaries have been taking up more and more ground and their intervention is becoming compulsory for more and more issues. Minister, many of your predecessors have already bitten their teeth on a reform of that protected profession. It is therefore really a missed opportunity that the proposed transposition has not been used to change the mandatory and rather expensive intervention of notaries in the creation of companies. You surprised us during the discussion in the Committee on Justice and threw us in the face, Minister, that the N-VA was apparently suddenly against the notary. It wasn't very correct and even a little false to hang that perception. It seems that you are allowed to leave balloons in the press and criticize the high fees paid by notaries for the purchase of their own first home; on the other hand, we should not ask ourselves in this house any questions about the compulsory intervention of a notary in the formation of companies. Speaking of double standards! For the sake of clarity, for many legal acts such as company statutes, we do not question the intervention of notaries at all, but for example the creation of standard companies with standard statutes. Anyone who wants to set up such a company quickly and cheaply must, in our opinion, have the best chance of doing so by the government. We want to give start-ups and small businesses every opportunity to take action, especially as they become increasingly competitive in a single European market. So we dare to question the financial threshold of the compulsory involvement of a notary in setting up standard companies. Anyone who, on the other hand, would like to receive some quality advice when setting up his company can of course ask for advice and pay a price for professional advice. However, that may be the advice of a notary, a lawyer or an accountant. It is therefore particularly sad that you, as a so-called dark blue liberal, stand in the way of maintaining such a financially significant threshold for the creation of a company. With this draft law you are clearly opting for a conservative solution. The notary's opinion, which is rather a letter of praise to you, therefore strengthens us in the belief that perhaps this is not the best way to achieve modernisation. It is perhaps true that for once we are among the predecessors for the transposition of European directives. However, this may also be due to the fact that other countries have made more fundamental and bold choices in facilitating fast and inexpensive ways for the digital creation of a company. For the reasons I have just mentioned, and because of the missed opportunities, we will abstain in the vote on the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u108	Madam President, I will not repeat the debate in committee here, but I would like to make a few comments. Mrs Houtmeyers, you refer, first of all, to the article in Knack on the notary. I would like to point out that the article concerned only the remuneration of property transactions and did not refer to the cost of setting up a company. Secondly, the reason why I am surprised at the attitude of the N-VA is that, as a result of the establishment of the Code of Companies and Associations, there has been a debate on the role of a notary in this field. At least your party didn't get up to ask what you're asking. Maybe that has something to do with moving insight. At least I noticed that you didn't ask at the time, and now you did. Thirdly, can there be a debate on this? Yes, that can be done, but European legislation in this area must be taken into account, which requires that the formation of a company requires either an authentic instrument or an audit by an administration or a judicial authority. The claim that a company can be created digitally without any intervention is not in line with Europe's rules. That's why I intervened in that sense. With what is now going on, we are taking an important step, as we will be one of the first countries in Europe, partly thanks to the efforts of the notary, where companies will be able to be created entirely digitally from 1 August 2021. This will certainly help to simplify entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u109	Mr Minister, you are indeed referring to the article in Knack, which I myself referred to. Why can it be questioned for the purchase of a private home, but cannot it be questioned for the creation of a simple company? You point out that we had no problem with this in the previous legislature. In the previous legislature, we were part of the government and had to compromise. In my view, this makes it clear once again that N-VA as a party can indeed compromise. For us, the advantages of the new Code of Companies and Associations weighed far more than the few drawbacks we saw in it at the time. When we adopted that code, we made this very clear both in committee and in plenary. You say that a notary should act as a fraud check. The question arises as to whether the notary is the only one who can carry out a fraud check. Other, even better or more independent bodies might do the same. I am thinking here of company courts or public prosecutors, as is the case in France. Is France so much more susceptible to fraud? Maybe we can make that invention, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u110	You seem to be a great supporter of the French model, but I am told that if a company in France is not established through a notary, but through the courts, then a very long way is chosen to set up a company. I do not want to put aside the notary to choose a path that will make things much slower, much less efficient and much more bureaucratic. I am absolutely not prepared to do that. Any other discussion I would like to have, but I am not prepared to take a step backwards and take the French path in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u111	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u112	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2047/9) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2047/9) Directive (EU) 2017/1132 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 amending Directive (EU) 2017/1132 as regards the use of digital instruments and processes in the framework of company law and amending the Code of Companies and Associations and the Law of 16 March 1803 on the settlement of notarial duties and various provisions following the transposition of Directive (EU) 2019/1151 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 amending Directive (EU) 2017/1132 as regards the use of digital instruments and processes under company law.' The title in Dutch was amended by the Committee in draft law amending the Code of Companies and Associations and the Law of 16 March 1803 regulating the notarial office and laying down various provisions following the transposition of Directive (EU) 2019/1151 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 amending Directive (EU) 2017/1132 as regards the use of digital instruments and processes under company law." The bill has 34 articles. The draft law has 34 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u113	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u114	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u115	André Flahaut, Benoit Piedboeuf, Cécile Thibaut, Servais Verherstraeten, Patrick Dewael, Bert Moyaers, Stefaan Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u116	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u117	Madam Chair, the purpose of this bill is to unblock a situation that has persisted for months now, namely the inability of Parliament to initiate recruitment procedures for clerks in Committee P and Committee R, since the conditions for applying for these jobs are very limited. You need a master's degree in law. We were forced to refuse candidates who were over-graduated but did not hold a master's degree in law. So we had to refuse them and stop the proceedings. The P and R Committees no longer have clerks. So there's a certain urgency. The committee has understood this and adopted this proposal unanimously, without a report. This will undoubtedly allow us to launch recruitment procedures very quickly, and so perhaps, in a few weeks or months' time, we will have clerks in these two organizations who are, for the time being, making a significant contribution in the light of the events that are taking place in some intelligence and security services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u118	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u119	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2064/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2064/3) The title has been amended by the Commission to "proposed law amending the Organic Law of 18 July 1991 on the Control of Police and Intelligence Services and the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis in order to broaden the conditions for the appointment of the respective clerks of the Standing Committee R and the Standing Committee P". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft legislation amending the Law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis in order to extend the conditions for the appointment of the respective Registrars of the Standing Committee I and of the Standing Committee P." The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u120	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u121	I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two draft laws. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u122	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Loones, who refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u123	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u124	We will proceed to the discussion of the clauses of Bill 2005. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2005/3) We have discussed the articles of the Bill No. 2005. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2005/3) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u125	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. We will proceed to the discussion of the clauses of Bill 2010. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2010/3) We have discussed the articles of the Bill No. 2010 on. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2010/3) The bill has five articles. The draft law contains 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u126	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u127	Madam President, Minister, what is the matter with your Public Health Office? It has been known for some time that it is messing around at the top of the FPS Public Health but those were only rumors, that was always said when we asked questions about them. On June 6th, however, De Standaard was in black and white: "The Federal Chief Public Health Officer is on sick leave after a second inadequate evaluation, in full effect of the corona crisis and with crucial reforms in prospect." In the special committee COVID-19, the same top official came to testify that things are not going so well at the FPS Health Department. There are too few staff, there are tensions between politics and civil service and within the FPS itself. A Flemish proverb says that where there is smoke there is fire. The opposition was therefore already somewhat suspicious when you replied to the question by the N-VA colleague that you would now answer for the thirty-fifth time that there is no audit at all, nor an evaluation, not at the FAGG, nor at the Public Health Office. Who, however, paints our surprise when we read the opposite in the newspaper? There was indeed an evaluation, a second inadequate one. We would like to ask once again, just to be sure, whether or not there was an evaluation. According to the press, there was clearly an evaluation, a second inadequate one. Either you weren't aware of this evaluation, or you're lying. I don't know what's bothering you the most, but for Flemish Interest, both options are equally bad. If you are not aware, then clearly something is going wrong in your administration and that is your responsibility. So no wonder there's also a lot going wrong in controlling the corona crisis. However, if, in response to questions from the opposition, you tell half truths or complete lies, that is a democratic problem, a problem for Parliament. Such a problem leads to a democratic deficit. If the committee asks for the Minister's presence to be called upon to provide text and explanations, then there is suddenly great consensus within Vivaldi. This is not an urgent problem; the opposition must interperate if it is to be so important. That is a pity, of course, because it could be different. There the Flemish interest is clearly different from the Vivaldi parties. The Flemish Interest would enter into dialogue with the opposition, openly and transparently, with all the cards on the table, out of respect for democracy, out of respect for Parliament, quod non at the Vivaldi parties. In full health crisis, it seems not a problem for the Vivaldi parties that the federal government, which is to manage and control the crisis, has become a powerless ship. Mr Jiroflée even dares to say that the government is doing well. No, the Vivaldi government is not doing well. The federal government that should tackle the health crisis firmly is a powerless ship. The president of the FPS has been subject to an inadequate evaluation twice so far. There are tensions within the public administration itself and with politics. That's not new. Your predecessor, Mrs De Block, was already able to experience this and already gave the first negative assessment. The official in question also admitted in the special committee COOVID-19 that there is indeed some tension and, above all, that there is a shortage of staff. In order to manage the crisis cell, we even had to reactivate a retired civil servant. It is therefore a problem which has existed for a long time, but which is not covered by a structural solution. Because of the corona crisis, that festering wound just started to fester a little more. The questions I have about the file are as follows. How is it that a top official like this, who has obtained an additional degree from the Vlerick Business School and a specialisation in internal audit at the University of Antwerp and who publishes on performance management in public administration, receives a second inadequate evaluation? What did he do with the first inadequate evaluation? What did the government do? Are there precedents in this or other federal government institutions and, above all, how to proceed? The fact that you and your party, as well as the rest of the Vivaldi parties, do not consider it important enough to submit texts and explanations in an additional committee meeting is a sign that nothing much will change. Instead of the wound being well-cleaned, she will continue to fester. However, you have announced major reforms within your department, but with this powerless ship you will be on the cliffs before and well at sea. That is why, Minister, I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Will Parliament have access to this file? When will Parliament have access to this evaluation dossier? What impact will this have on the much-needed health care reforms? Will you have a full audit carried out for the services under your jurisdiction, and in particular for the FPS Health and the FAGG?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u128	Madam President, Minister, it is through press releases that we have been informed that decisions have been taken on the functioning of Mr Auwers, top of the Public Health Office. So, in full resolution of the corona crisis, we note that the top public health official is on sick leave after a second inadequate evaluation, which also involves an improvement. According to the press. It now appears that Mr Auwers has been on sick leave for two weeks and that he has been temporarily replaced by Mr Mortier, Director-General, from the Department of Animal, Plant and Food. Thus, for the second time in the biggest crisis of the century, the Public Health Office will be without a management official. Powerless on the ship, the ship that already didn't have a political captain. It does not appear to have an official captain in the management of this crisis either. It was indeed in April last year that your predecessor, Mrs De Block, had given a negative assessment and put Mr Auwers on the sidelines. Now, the members of the covid committee who have access to the confidential information all know, like the government members, that there were effective functioning problems. There were problems with the purchase of mouth masks and also in the search for procurement opportunities to buy new mouth masks, and so on. Mr Auwers was replaced by Mr De Coster, who retired and sat there for too long. After all, he was planning to return to that pension as early as July. But so, Minister, it was very well known that there were problems of operation, by you and by Members of Parliament. The role and responsibility of the chairman of the FPS in such a crisis are enormous. Hence the interplay. After all, I would like to be clear about the nature and seriousness of the situation of Mr Auwers' operating problems and, above all, about the impact this has had on public health. I would also ask you to tell us who had knowledge within the government, what was said about it, from when and what the reactions were. I believe that you should clarify with Parliament the re-enactment of Mr Auwers' duties, the incidents, the evaluations, the period in which he effectively carried out another job and your role in it. To what extent did you communicate this with your government partners? In such a crisis, it is also very important that, when taking up the post, there should be follow-up, guidance, support and conditions for previous incidents and inadequate evaluations. I would have liked to have heard exactly what you did. It also seems special to me that a management official can continue to function after two negative assessments, especially in view of the state of the country and the responsibility he has. I would also like to ask you immediately whether there are any other operational problems within the FOD or within the FAGG. We've talked about that a lot. We all know the problems that have arisen in the crisis. Are there any operational problems that you would like to evaluate today, which you would like to do something about? We have often debated this in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities, in the Special Committee on COVID-19 and in the plenary. I have always asked you to carry out an audit of these very important federal organizations, in this case health care: the FAGG and the FOD. How come you always put that question next to you? How is it that your party and all the government parties in the Special Committee COVID-19 voted against the recommendation of the N-VA Group to set up that audit? If you were aware of such a problem, why not go along with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u129	Mr Auwers, the top official of the Federal Public Health Service, is currently ill after having not received a positive evaluation for a second time. That there were problems in the leadership of the Public Health Office appeared indirectly when in April last year, in full covid crisis, a retired official was asked to take over the helm. In August 2020, Ms De Block would have imposed an improvement path on Mr Auwers following a non-positive evaluation. Again, you would not be satisfied with the functioning of the top official. This situation raises serious questions about the functioning of Mr Auwers, but also about the functioning of the Public Health Office in general and, of course, its political responsibility. The ship is without a captain, and that's when we're still in the middle of a crisis. The Health Service's got a lot of flaws, too. We also heard this in the testimonies in the special committee COOVID-19. We heard in such a way that the FPS Public Health is really undermanned, a ship with few sailors. Key figures such as Mrs Quoilin van Sciensano, Mr Auwers himself and Mr Pardon told us how structural under-financing of successive governments, including the N-VA, actually outstripped the health administration. For example, the Public Health Emergency Service, which was to monitor international outbreaks, had fallen back on one person. Microbiologist Emmanuel André, who witnessed the first wave and approach, also spoke in the special committee COOVID-19 about the empty plateaus on the FPS Public Health. That policy of political savings on our public services is being paid today, on the one hand, by an administration that could not handle the crisis properly and, on the other hand, by the government, for millions of euros, we need expensive consultancy agencies such as KPMG and Deloitte. The question is also to what extent this is a political statement. Mrs. De Block never resigned, despite her crushing and heavy responsibility for destroying and not renewing the strategic stock of mouth masks. We know from the special committee COVID-19 that the administration sent several notes with proposals for the re-establishment of a new stock, but that De Block's cabinet did not make this a priority. On the contrary, they were in a blind budgetary orthodoxy of the Swedish government with the N-VA and they found EUR 100 million for an order mouth masks too much money. We all know the price we paid for that. Mr. Secretary, were you aware of the evaluation that your predecessor gave to Mr. Auwers? Did it have to do with the mouth mask saga, both destroying the mouth masks, not resetting the stock as well as letting the mouth masks order? Were conditions imposed on his functioning? Were those conditions met? What is the reason why you did not give Mr Auwers a positive assessment? In De Tijd we could read that Mr. Auwers was accused of not being a crisis manager. What problems do you identify with the Public Health Office? To what extent are they due to the dysfunction of Mr Auwers? We also read in the press that the Vivaldi government would have discussed the resignation of Mr Auwers in the formation of the government, but that they did not want to replace the fire department at the time of the fire. What measures have you taken or will you take to improve the situation in the FPS Health in the short and medium term? What additional budgets are provided for? How will you turn the Public Health Office into a strong public service that can really be active? In the meantime, were additional staff recruited or are you planning to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Auwers is a mandate holder as chairman of the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Security and Environment. Mandate holders shall be evaluated annually and, in accordance with the procedure established, a mid-term review of Mr Auwers has been carried out over the period 2020. The legislation clearly states who has access to that evaluation dossier: that is the holder of the management function itself, the director of the Staff and Organisation of the relevant public administration and the evaluators in this case, that my colleagues Van Quickenborne, Clarinval and Khattabi are the second evaluators to take over and myself. They have access to the personnel file in this form, but for the rest, the evaluation report is part of the personnel file and this is not covered by the public administration. I will therefore not be able to explain the substance of the matter. I can confirm what has appeared in the newspapers. The evaluation was not positive because it was concluded "to develop." That's not the same as a negative evaluation. I knew, of course, that the previous evaluation also decided that the evaluation would be 'to develop'. For the rest, I really cannot go into the content of a personnel file here. It is clear that this is about the evaluation of a mandate holder. So, Mrs Sneppe, for the 36th time, no, it's not an evaluation of the institution, that's something else. The institution is, of course, a very important institution at the moment of the crisis. We are also in the process of strengthening them in terms of staff and equipment. In the budget control 2021, an additional amount of EUR 8 million has been released for the Public Health Office. In fact, that should allow the recruitment of 65 full-time units. So the FOD is strengthened in terms of manpower. Of course we also look closely at the existing problems and we try to do our utmost to help the FPS move forward. I'm sure you can count on it. Mr Auwers is indeed on sick leave, as I said. He is currently being replaced by Mr Philippe Mortier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u131	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, although I am not very satisfied with it, but that may also be my fault. You say that the FOD is indeed not being evaluated and that you are already answering the questions about it for the thirty-six times. Maybe you should do some real work on an evaluation. You say that 65 full-time equivalents will be recruited, but the problem Mr Auwers raised in the special committee COOVID-19 was just that these vacancies will not be filled. There must be a reason why that doesn't happen. In addition to the fact that your answer was very short, you cannot give access to the file. I am, of course, very sorry about that and we will ask you again in order to have access to it. Parliamentary control must also be able to monitor how this evaluation is carried out. You also did not address the question of whether an audit would be organised. I'm sure you'll provide additional staff. We have seen that the Public Health Office is turning square, certainly in the current crisis. You will only do something about the shortage of staff, which will not be easy, but it will be something. However, you will not deal with the entire FOD. I think you're wrong about that. How can the ship sail in the right direction if, first of all, the tension between the captain and the shipping company is not resolved? Secondly, nothing is being done about the threat of mutiny among the sailors, even if there are few. Thirdly, the captain has left the ship, albeit temporarily. So my impression is that the ship of your government institution is doomed to walk on the cliffs, even with the new sailors. It is doomed to walk on the cliffs if no action is taken. So I repeat my request to have a thorough audit carried out, starting with the FPS Public Health and then extending the scope to the FAGG. During the corona crisis, a lot was dropped there too. For example, there was only one to name the saga with the DiaSorin tests, which came in the press. After the very recent report of the Court of Auditors, I recommend that you also examine Sciensano. To get an answer to my questions, I have a motion ready that I will file. In doing so, I urge Parliament, firstly, to have access as soon as possible to the evaluation file of the Federal Chief Public Health Officer and, secondly, to have a full audit of the services under the authority of the Minister of Health and in particular the FPS Health and the FAGG.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u132	Minister, I cannot get rid of the impression that you, who seem to me to be genuinely concerned about public health, would not be satisfied with this answer. I note that after five months or, in fact, after a year, the period in which the problem is known, a top official with a problem of operation, who is at the head of your main service and your main task, namely to get us out of the corona crisis and manage that corona crisis, is simply going on and that you think that the development of the person concerned or the improvement to be developed is a common fact. Why did you use that lateness? Why did you put the person concerned back on that important post from the beginning of the year? According to the press release, he's on sick leave, which you confirmed. To what extent, however, are we talking about forced sick leave and the result of the improvement process? To what extent is the person really sick? Mr. Secretary, you indicate that you are improving the functioning of the FPS. After all, you're recruiting. However, in February 2021, you filled out one third of the staff provided. That number is not enough to control the current crisis. The task of us Members of Parliament is to control you and the government. My question in the Committee on Health, to hear about the problems of functioning, the negative assessments and the improvement process of a top official, is an important one. Nevertheless, our question has been voted off. Nevertheless, you did not consider it necessary to come to Parliament, to explain the matter and to explain in all discretion about the dossier what you would effectively do about the problem in the short term and why you did not do something about it in time. Minister, you indicated that it was not a negative assessment, but an improvement to be developed. There was still a glimpse of improvement. However, this is a top job and it must also be done top. The Intensivist, the E.R., the nurse and the healthcare professional have done their job in this crisis top. That is also what the government should expect from whomever has a great deal of responsibility: input and guiding policy in this crisis. This top job includes professionalism and alert functioning. I am therefore still surprised that the majority of Members of this House are using the omerta principle. If I ask a fair question to get explanations in committee, they press the button to indicate that this is not necessary. Isn't this really worth a thorough investigation? Aren't our patients and caregivers worth going through this thoroughly? Do we really not think it is important to look at what is causing these difficulties and shortcomings in this crisis and what we can do about it? Is this a total lack of interest or is it apathy? Are there any jars that should stay covered? I do not like any of the three, Minister. This had to and could be better. I can't figure it out. Moreover, I firmly believe that colleagues cannot understand this either, especially those who were at the wheel of the special committee COOVID-19 and possessed all the confidential information. They know very well what went wrong. I am convinced that they, for our covid patients and our caregivers, would like to think along and dig deeper for all families who have suffered and died. They need to get that audit from the FOD and the FAGG. Mr Minister, I have therefore tabled a motion of recommendation based on two pillars, namely a thorough evaluation and audit of the FOD and the FAGG, but also ensuring that Parliament can do its job. When a Member of Parliament asks that a minister should come to Parliament and explain, that should also be done effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u133	Minister, I understand of course that you cannot go into the details of the personal elements, but at the same time, perhaps we could have found another way to discuss them. This is still a very important service, the Public Health FPS, which is now without a captain. In this sense, the answer you gave leaves me on my hunger. Today, it is time to learn the real lessons from this crisis. This is not a person's business, and I am convinced of that. That's the problem. I'd like to hear more from you about what you're asking Mr. Auwers to do. What is your vision of our public health service? How should it work? At the beginning of the crisis, this service was exsangued. The little we could have prepared to deal with this pandemic was not ready. The pandemic plan was not ready, the strategic stock had been destroyed and not renewed, under the responsibility of Ms. De Block. Finally, advice had to be sought elsewhere, in consultancy offices, etc. We must draw conclusions from this problem. We need a strong public service that can act, and be effective, to protect the population. Indeed, that is what has been missed. You say there are 65 full-time equivalents committed. This is a good thing, but is it enough in relation to all the tasks to be carried out? How much full time should we have? How many have not been lost in all these years of savings? In this context, I have tabled a motion of recommendation. Today it is time to really put an end to austerity, to invest in a strong public service that can act to protect the population, to take control of all public health problems, whether it is covid or other problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u134	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Dominiek Sneppe and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of the ladies Dominiek Sneppe, Kathleen Depoorter and Sofie Merckx and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - having regard to the testimony in the Special Committee COVID-19 of several senior officials within the Public Health Office on the tensions between the civil service and politics; - having regard to the testimony in the Special Committee COOVID-19 of several senior officials within the Public Health Office on the staff shortage; - having regard to the important mission of the Public Health Office, which is to control and manage the health crisis; - in view of the inadequate handling and many blunders during the corona crisis; asks the government - to give Parliament access as quickly as possible to the evaluation files of the Federal Chief Public Health Officer; - to have a full audit carried out for the services under the responsibility of the Minister of Health, and in particular for the FPS Health and the FAGG." A first motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Dominiek Sneppe and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Mrs Dominiek Sneppe, Ms Kathleen Depoorter and Ms Sofie Merckx and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - having regard to the testimony of several senior officials of the Public Health FPS in the special commission of VOCID-19 on tensions between the public administration and the political world; - having regard to the testimony of several senior officials of the Public Health FPS on the lack of staff in the Special Committee on VOCID-19; - given the important role of the Public Health FPS in managing and managing the health crisis; - in view of the shortcomings in the management of the coronavirus crisis and the numerous errors made during this crisis; asks the government - to give Parliament as soon as possible access to the evaluation files of the senior federal public health official; - to commission a full audit of the services under the authority of the Minister of Public Health and in particular the FPS Public Health and AFMPS." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Kathleen Depoorter and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of the ladies Dominiek Sneppe, Kathleen Depoorter and Sofie Merckx and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - having regard to the press releases on the functioning of Mr Tom Auwers, President of the Public Health Office, and in particular the incidents, inadequate evaluations, the decommissioning and the sick leave faced by this senior official under both Minister Vandenbroucke and Minister De Block; - having regard to the refusal of the majority parties in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities to bring the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities to explain the problem; - having heard the interplay of Mrs Depoorter; - having heard the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health; - having regard to the literally vital task of the Chairman of the Public Health Office as a captain on the ship and the impact of its functioning on a sound approach to the current health crisis and public health in general; - having regard to the importance of the optimum guarantee of parliamentary control and respect for the democratically elected representatives and the people they represent; - in view of the mistrust which may result from a lack of transparency among the population and the undermining of the social support for the measures taken to address the COOVID-19 crisis resulting from this; asks the government: - to have the FPS Public Health and the FAGG audited independently; - to closely monitor and ensure the continuity, management and proper functioning of the FPS Health and the FAGG in a sustainable manner; - to ensure that there is always sufficient respect within the government and public administrations for the acceptance of its measures by the public and the parliamentary control function of Members of Parliament; - ensure that the new political culture is one of mutual respect and constructive cooperation between majority and opposition, in a climate of maximum transparency." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Kathleen Depoorter and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu les interpellations de Mmes Dominiek Sneppe, Kathleen Depoorter et Sofie Merckx and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - having regard to the articles in the press concerning the operation of Mr Tom Auwers, President of the Public Health FPS, in particular the incidents, the insufficient reports of assessment, the lay-off and sick leave to which this senior official was confronted, both under Minister Frank Vandenbroucke and under Minister Maggie De Block; - having regard to the refusal of the parties of the majority in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities to require the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Public Health to come and explain this issue in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities; - having heard the inquiry of Mrs Depoorter; - having heard the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Public Health; - given the literally vital mission of the President of the FPS Public Health as master of the ship and the impact of its operation on an adequate approach to the health crisis and on the defence of public health in general; - given the importance of ensuring optimal parliamentary oversight and respect for the democratically elected representatives and the population they represent; - given the distrust that a lack of transparency can create among the population and the weakening of societal adherence to the resulting crisis management measures of the Covid 19; Asks the government: - submit the Public Health FPS and the AFMPS to an independent audit; - to monitor more closely and ensure the continuity, direction and proper functioning of the Public Health FPS and the AFMPS; - to ensure that within government and public services there is always sufficient respect for the public's adherence to its measures and for the parliamentary oversight function of Members of Parliament; - to ensure that the new political culture is mutually marked by respectful and constructive cooperation between the majority and the opposition, in a climate of maximum transparency." A third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sofie Merckx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of the ladies Dominiek Sneppe, Kathleen Depoorter and Sofie Merckx and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - considering that there have been long-standing problems in the Federal Public Service for Public Health with regard to understaffing and functioning; - having regard to the fact that as early as April 2020, in the middle of the corona crisis, retired official Christiaan Decoster was asked to take over the crisis policy; - having regard to the statements by Mrs Sophie Quoilin, Mr Auwers and Mr Pardon in the Special Committee on COVID-19 on the structural under-financing of successive health administrations; - having regard to the fact that there was only one person employed in the Public Health Emergency Department of the Public Health Office; - having regard to the statements made by Mr Emmanuel André in the special committee COOVID-19 on the plateaus on the Public Health Office. asks the federal government: - to move away from the budgetary orthodoxy on public health policy and federal administrations; - to invest in a strong public service, with sufficient capacity and resources to manage such crises." A third motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sofie Merckx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu les interpellations de Mmes Dominiek Sneppe, Kathleen Depoorter et Sofie Merckx and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - Whereas there have been problems with the Federal Public Health Service for a long time with regard to staff shortages and functioning; - in view of the fact that already in April 2020, in the midst of the covid's pandemic, Mr Christiaan Decoster, a retired official, was asked to resume the management of the crisis; - having regard to the testimony in Special Committee VOCID-19 of Ms Sophie Quelin, Mr Tom Auwers and Mr Paul Pardon regarding the structural underfunding of successive governments which has emptied the health administrations of their substance; - having regard to the fact that only one person worked in the Public Health Emergencies Department of the FPS Public Health; - having regard to the remarks made by Mr Emmanuel André in special commission VOCID-19 concerning empty plates at the SPF Public health asks the federal government: - to abandon budgetary orthodoxy concerning public health policy and federal public services; - to invest in a strong federal public service with sufficient capacity and means to deal with such crises." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Ms Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Wouter De Vriendt et Servais Verherstraeten. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u135	Madam President, I would like to ask the urgency of the simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u136	It's been noted. The motion will therefore be put to the vote today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u137	The Chamber must appoint an effective Dutch-speaking member – a member of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervision Board. The Chamber should appoint a Dutch-speaking effective member of the Office of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisons. Nominations were announced in plenary on 10 June 2021. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 10 June 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u138	The Chamber must appoint a Dutch-speaking effective member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. The Chamber should appoint a Dutch-speaking effective member of the Executive Board of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. Nominations were announced in plenary on 12 May 2021. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 12 May 2021. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 July 2021, I propose that you make these appointments during the plenary meeting on 15 July 2021. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 July 2021, I propose that these appointments be made at the plenary session of 15 July 2021. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Friday 9 July 2021 until Thursday 15 July 2021 at 4 p.m. Ballot papers and parliamentary documents are available in the General Secretariat. - Members may vote from Friday 9 July 2021 until Thursday 15 July 2021 at 4 p.m. The ballots and parliamentary documents are available to the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. - The ballot boxes will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday 15 July 2021 in Room 3. - The urnes with the ballots will be opened during the plenary session of Thursday 15 July 2021 in Room 3. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u139	Since the number of votes cast is insufficient, we must postpone the counting to the plenary meeting on 15 July 2021: - secret ballot on applications for naturalization (No. 2058/1) and - the appointment of alternate members in the context of the renewal of half of the terms of office of the commissions of appointment for the notariat (No. 1989/1). Since the number of votes cast is insufficient, we should postpone to the plenary session of 15 July 2021 to include: - of the secret ballot on naturalizations (No. 2058/1) and - the appointment of alternate members as part of the renewal of half of the mandates of the Notarial Appointment Committees (No. 1989/1). Members may vote until Thursday, 15 July 2021, at 4 p.m. Ballot papers and parliamentary documents are available in the General Secretariat. Members may vote until Thursday 15 July 2021 at 4 p.m. The ballots and parliamentary documents are available in the General Secretariat. I would remind you that: - only members may receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box; - the proposal for naturalization laws cannot be signed; - if the member does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant, the name of the applicant shall be deleted from the list given to him; - the ballot boxes will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday 15 July 2021. I would remind you that: - only members may receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box; - the proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed; - where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the person concerned from the list supplied to him; - the urns with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 15 July 2021. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u140	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that the following bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions: - Bill (Ms Nathalie Muylle and Maggie De Block) improving and refining the sui generis status of medical specialists in training, both in terms of social protection and labour law, No. 2089/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that the following legislative proposal be sent to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions: - legislative proposal (Mrs Nathalie Muylle and Mrs Maggie De Block) to improve and refine the sui generis status of medical specialists in training, both in the field of social protection and in the field of labour law, No. 2089/1. This bill had previously been referred to the Health and Equal Opportunities Committee. This bill was previously sent to the Health and Equal Opportunities Committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u141	The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill extending the scope of the Act of 24 December 2020 on voluntary work, No. 2094/1, was tabled. The Government requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law extending the scope of the law of 24 December 2020 on association work, No. 2094/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u142	Madam President, the urgency is invoked following the recent decision of the Consultation Committee on the calendar of facilitations in which sociocultural activities can be resumed under certain conditions. A first relaxation took effect from 8 May 2021. Further relaxations followed in June and as a result of the further evolution of the COOVID-19 pandemic, additional relaxations will follow in July. In the light of these decisions, it is necessary to provide the sector with legal certainty as to whether or not to apply the temporary arrangement of association work to the socio-cultural activities mentioned above before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u143	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u144	The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill on various urgent provisions in the field of health, No. 2097/1. The Government has also requested the urgency declaration, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on various urgent health provisions, No. 2097/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u145	Madam President, the urgency of the matter is raised because the draft contains provisions which are urgent for a number of reasons. For all the provisions taken into account in the draft, this urgency was recognised by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u146	Mr Secretary of State, there are certainly elements in the draft law that deserve urgency, but this urgency is of course mainly due to the lateness of the initiative, not so much because the recess suddenly appears. As a result, the quality of parliamentary work is impaired. If that is a one-time thing, we could live with it, but it happens all the time. The 48-hour rule has also not been taken into account. This is becoming a bad pattern. That is why we shall be voting against it symbolically, I suspect, because it will have no effect on the final result, although I understand that there are elements of urgency in it. I would really ask the government not to provoke urgency by doing its own homework late.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u147	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u148	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u149	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 30 June 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 30 June 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 153/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 153/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after Spain, France is now using an anti-approach bracelet in the fight against intra-family violence. This bracelet should be worn by the convicted ex-partner. As with an anklet, the device must be worn by it and can only be removed by an authorised representative. The victim should wear a reception box. As soon as the stalker gets too close, that person gets a message. When the perpetrator enters a restricted zone, the order services are automatically notified. In Spain, this system has already led to a significant reduction in some cases of intra-family violence and the number of murders of ex-partners. The question of introducing this bracelet is not new. At the end of 2019, it was already mentioned in the committee when two women were murdered by their ex-partner in a few days. Since then, this list has risen worryingly and remains silent about this much-needed initiative. Another initiative with an anti-stalking app, a pilot project in Ghent which ran until the end of May, is only a small step in the right direction, because the victims themselves need to press an emergency button. It is then in many cases too late for the emergency services to act. Minister Van Quickenborne said in committee that a parliamentary working group was set up for this purpose, which was only met twice by Corona and has now died silently. This is something that we see more with the Minister, a huge policy of announcements, a weekly good news show in different newspapers, but in the field and in Parliament it remains silent. The reform of sexual criminal law was also planned for Easter. This was moved to the summer recess and this week the pardoes were taken off the agenda. That is no longer serious. With this motion, we are asking the government finally to step up its efforts, to include this anti-approach bracelet in our legislation and to drastically reduce the time limit for sentencing, so that victims can be protected much more quickly and efficiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u151	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u152	Yes [[85]] Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u153	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda of 30 June 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 30 June 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 154/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Erik Gilissen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Albert Vicar. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 154/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Erik Gilissen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Albert Vicaire. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the government wants to require not only telecom providers, but also services such as WhatsApp, Telegram or Facebook Messenger to store and keep user data at the disposal of the court. In addition, more bodies will also have access to this data. A new draft law not only aims to gain access to the telecom metadata of almost the entire Belgian territory, but also to access the encrypted information in chat applications. At least that's how it was read in the press. The media seem to be well aware before Parliament of the content of the preliminary draft law to replace the data retention law destroyed by the Constitutional Court. The European Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court recently considered that the retention of communication data is contrary to the right to privacy. The so-called data retention law was therefore destroyed by the Constitutional Court on 24 April 2021. With this new bill, it seems that the government is not only ignoring this judgment, but is even going a lot further. The organisations that challenged the previous law before the Constitutional Court have already indicated that they will again take legal action against this new law. Keeping this data is not only a threat to privacy, but also a source of information for the fight against crimes such as terrorism, drug trafficking and so on, as well as for the detection of missing persons. But, of course, that should not be a free pass to ignore the right to privacy of all citizens. Moreover, the court has other pleas in law at its disposal. Billing data can still be requested from telecom operators without the new law. There are also camera images available in many busy places nowadays, which can be viewed. Of course, the Flemish Interest recognizes the usefulness of such data in the fight against various crimes, but calls for the development of a balanced legislative framework with regard to the privacy of citizens and based on the principle that one is innocent to prove otherwise. We also ask that the new legislation take account of the recent rulings of the Constitutional Court, and we have tabled a motion for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u155	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u156	Yes 87 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u157	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Four motions were tabled (MOT No. 157/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Dominiek Sneppe; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Katleen Depoorter; - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sofie Merckx; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre et Servais Verherstraeten. Four motions were tabled (MOT No. 157/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Dominiek Sneppe; - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Katleen Depoorter: - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sofie Merckx; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u158	Yes [[85]] Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 142 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u159	Vote on Amendment No 5 by Annick Ponthier cs on the inscription.(1789/7) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Annick Ponthier cs on the title.(1789/7) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u160	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u161	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u162	Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u163	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u164	Yes 105 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u165	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u166	Yes 116 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u167	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u168	Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u169	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u170	Yes 126 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u171	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u172	Yes 123 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-08-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip117x.u173	We must approve the agenda for next week's sittings. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's meetings. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Wednesday, July 14, 2021 at 10.15 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 14 July 2021 at 10.15 a.m.
