ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u1	Mr. Chair, Ms. de Laveleye, the IPBES Pandemic Report is a workshop report. This is not a full review or evaluation. This means that the workshop report and its recommendations or conclusions have not been reviewed, approved or endorsed by the IPBES plenary. However, the report is one of the most rigorous scientific reviews of the evidence and knowledge of the links between the pandemic and nature since the beginning of the covid-19 pandemic. Its conclusions can therefore be considered highly reliable, which means that Belgium could and should take into account its recommendations. The links between biodiversity and health form an integral part of the global biodiversity framework for post-2020, including the health benefits of biodiversity, the link with zoonoses and the impact of pharmaceuticals on biodiversity. The 24th meeting of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice of the Convention on Biological Diversity will be held at the end of April. The preparatory document on biodiversity and health is not yet available. It should include a report on the following actions currently being explored by the Convention secretariat: - the development of measurement indicators and scientific tools to measure progress in biodiversity and health; - the development of targeted approaches for disseminating information on the integration of biodiversity in the health sector, in particular in the context of the implementation of the overall communication strategy and the dissemination of information approaches; - the preparation of a draft global plan of action with strategies, programmes and national accounts for the integration of biodiversity and health linkages into policies in order to help the parties to integrate the links between biodiversity and health; - on the basis of the conclusions of the IPBES 'Pandemics and Biodiversity' report, Belgium should (...), which will be confirmed during the consultations planned for this dossier with regional colleagues and counterparts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u2	Thank you very much for that clarification, Mrs Khattabi. It seems to me that you have highlighted an important point, in the sense that the report is a workshop report and is therefore not a binding document. Belgium could and should take this into account. I think it will be very interesting for us parliamentarians to be able to follow the path of preparations between the federal state and the federated entities. We know that the government's goal is to come to COP15 with the highest possible ambitions. COP15 is an event that we cannot miss because it is crucial for the future of biodiversity and hence our health and well-being. We will discuss with you, prior to COP15, the positioning documents of Belgium. We have no doubt that they will be extremely interesting. Thank you for your answer, we will return to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we could perhaps discuss this point in the framework of the Rules of Procedure of our work. A first exchange of views is planned at the end of this afternoon's meeting. We will then be able to consider how to involve this committee and Parliament in this considerable work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u4	Madam Minister, road traffic emissions account for more than one fifth of all greenhouse gas emissions in this country. That is why the government wants to work on the decarbonisation of the fleet. As part of this ambition, the government agreement states that all new commercial vehicles should be greenhouse gas-free by 2026, but other measures should also contribute to a sustainable transformation of the transport system. In this context, you referred to the importance of consultation and cooperation at the committee meeting on 9 March. Madam Minister, one of the objectives of the National Energy and Climate Plan is to develop an inter-federal cooperation agreement on sustainable mobility. What's the timing of that? What are the specific priorities that should be included in that agreement for you? You also referred to consultation with your colleague, Mr Gilkinet, with the aim of taking the necessary initiatives to facilitate the transformation and decarbonisation of our transport system. Has that meeting taken place yet? If not, when will that happen? What initiatives do you think should be considered necessary and will therefore also be put on the table by you?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u5	Mr Raskin, given the increasing share of road transport emissions, I see the decarbonisation of road transport as an important policy priority. The government is committed to full decarbonisation of new commercial vehicles from 2026 onwards. The government agreement also stipulates that we will work with the Länder to phase out the sale of non-zero emissions cars in order to improve air quality, reduce the climate impact of our transport and encourage innovation in the car sector. The government is strongly committed to the further development of rail, the promotion of multimodality and the promotion of bicycle and velomobile use through the construction of a performant and safe cycling route network, as well as to the promotion of telework. Our mobility and production chains do not stop at national or regional borders. That is why, in a letter we signed with other Member States recently, we asked the European Commission to tighten up emission standards and introduce a phasing-out date at EU level for the sale of vehicles with internal combustion engines. Those measures are not on their own. An integrated decarbonisation of transport requires a coherent coordination of policies between the governments of our country. In the Inter-Ministerial Mobility Conference, the elaboration of an inter-federal cooperation agreement on sustainable mobility, provided for in the context of the National Energy and Climate Plan, appears to be a valuable lever to align the various policy instruments distributed. In view of the range of competences, the policy at different levels needs to be complemented and strengthened together. I will therefore make full use of strong federal measures to achieve the transition in the regions as well. In concrete terms, I am thinking of an inter-federal mobility agreement, which is important, in particular to align fiscal measures and standards with a shared, concrete medium-term vision. A homogeneous, ambitious and jointly designed policy framework will make it clearer and easier for citizens to adapt and become an ambitious dynamic. I am thinking, for example, of the increasing share of inter-regional transport in Belgium, such as increasing commuting and freight traffic between regions. So far no consensus has been found for the concrete elaboration of an inter-federal mobility agreement. In the coming weeks and months, the federal team will continue to pursue its own policy. For example, I will soon put a proposal for a decision on the government table in which I ask my fellow Members to develop all the federal climate policies and measures in the National Energy and Climate Plan, the government agreement, the policy papers and statements as soon as possible. In this context, I will consult with Minister Gilkinet to take concrete initiatives to facilitate the transformation and decarbonisation of our transport system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u6	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. You have given a number of concrete examples. You also indicate that in the coming weeks and months you will be implementing the federal levers. The timing remains a little vague, but we will come back to that in the future. You place the emphasis on joint and joint consultation. This is very important if we want to create sufficient support in the various regions in this country, which in turn is absolutely necessary to achieve results. I look forward to the outcome of that joint consultation. Once again, the timing I have asked for is not very specific. I will probably come back to that in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u7	Mr President, Minister, the facts are well known. In 2014, Climate Court brought a lawsuit against the four Belgian authorities responsible for climate policy. Between 16 and 26 March 2021, i.e. the last two weeks, the pleas were made in this case. The climate issue is about citizens asking for climate action. And let's face it, that's what's needed. Because, like 2014, 2020, the year in which the climate business started, was once again the hottest year since the beginning of the measurements in 1901. Ambitious measures are therefore needed to safeguard our future and that of our children. The federal and Brussels coalition agreements included ambitious climate goals, among others under green impulse, and our hope is of course that Flanders will follow those ambitions with the climate issue as a lever. The federal government agreement now states that the climate objectives will be translated into intermediate objectives and will be subject to an objective evaluation every year. That's what my questions are about. Firstly, what is the state of play of a specific action plan to achieve the 2030 targets? Secondly, what intermediate objectives will be set and how will these objectives be evaluated? Finally, how did you experience that first phase of the climate case?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u8	Mr President, my question has already been asked in plenary but I am pleased that the debate is continuing in committee. So I'll listen carefully to the exchanges and leave my place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u9	Madam Minister, the last of the climate case's ten days of hearing was held last Friday at the Brussels Court of First Instance. This case follows the subpoena on the grounds of the ASBL Klimaatzaak and addressed to the federal and regional climate ministers in April 2015. The position that climate policy in our country is evidence of non-compliance with respect for human rights and children's rights was defended by representatives of the ASBL. They demanded that sufficient measures be put in place to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 42 per cent in 2025 and 55 per cent in 2030 and that means be put in place to meet them. Minister, can we have your feedback on this matter? Proposals included in the "Fit for 55" package related to the Green Deal will be available in the coming months. However, their purpose was announced. Can we know your position on this matter? Have any means already been provided for the implementation of related initiatives? Finally, in the Netherlands, a trial similar to the Climate Affair forced the state to undertake a policy that was significantly favourable to climate conservation. Madam Minister, the verdict of the case should fall before the summer. In the event of an unfavourable verdict, could we hope that the demands of the approximately 62,000 citizens represented by the ASBL Klimaatzaak will be recognised and implemented? In advance, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u10	Mr President, Minister, the Belgian Climate Change case was finally launched this month. Due to the many delay manoeuvres of the Flemish government, especially former Minister Schauvliege of CD&V, it took six years for the concerned citizens of Climate Case to be able to defend their grievances. Climate case asks the court to establish a number of cases, for example that governments are responsible for climate change because they do not behave as good family fathers and harm the interests of citizens in the conduct of climate policy. Another example is that our governments violate fundamental rights, including the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. Climate case also calls on governments to take the necessary measures to reduce total annual greenhouse gas emissions by 48 % or at least 42 % by 2025, by 65% or at least 55 % by 2030, and net zero emissions by 2050. Before the start of the climate issue, you stated in a press release that you have initiated a reorientation of climate policy in which the federal government has a climate policy that is science-based. Furthermore, you write that the level of ambition follows from science. With that press release, you are actually saying that the switch has already taken place and you seem to be in favour of the climate issue. I was therefore very surprised when I read some of the arguments put forward by the federal government. I quote: 'Public authorities are not the first to be responsible for climate policy. It is only because citizens do not fulfil their responsibilities that public authorities are called upon." Another quote: "The judge cannot blame a legislative power not to act on climate, for example, when there is a pandemic." With these two arguments, the federal government is shifting responsibility entirely to the citizens and also abusing the current corona crisis in order not to pursue a decisive climate policy. In fact, I find both arguments shameful. I have a few questions about that. Do you support the argument that your lawyers put forward? Do you think the corona crisis is a good reason not to act on climate? Do you think that only the federal government can be called upon if citizens fail to fulfil their responsibilities? When you say that your climate policy will be science-based, will you further increase federal ambitions to 65% reduction by 2030? Will you also ensure that our climate objectives are aimed at preventing dangerous climate warming of 1.5 °C instead of a maximum of 2 °C? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u11	I propose that Mr Verduyckt should speak in the reply if he were to be present. Now we listen to the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u12	Colleagues, as you know, the case is still under way. Indeed, conclusions have already been presented on Friday, and we await judgment. It goes without saying that, for this reason, I will be very modest and cautious with my comments, but I can point out that the Federal Government has not disputed the admissibility of the request in any way and does not wish to evade its responsibility towards future generations. Mrs. Daems, may I ask if you were present during our lawyers' pleas? Perhaps not, otherwise you wouldn't take over the reporting of third parties. I have read in advance the slides and legal texts of the lawyers and received their feedback on the pleas. You're making a caricature of your interventions. It wouldn't do anyone any good except for you, perhaps. You are determined to form a front, while together we will face the challenge of this century. The substance of the matter is crystal clear. The climate issue is that governments should avoid dangerous climate change, primarily by sufficiently reducing greenhouse gas emissions. For example, the co-requirers put forward a reduction target of at least 55% in 2030. As you know, this reduction target is now shared by Europe, since its decision last December to reduce its emissions by at least 55% in Europe. We support the European targets for reducing emissions by at least 55% by 2030 and for climate neutrality by 2050, which will be anchored in the European climate change law. I look forward to June to the Commission's proposals to transpose these objectives into concrete legislation and to revise the European climate architecture accordingly. For the time being, it seems premature to translate the revised ambition upwards into a carbon budget and intermediate targets for Belgium. These will be the result of the sectoral legislation to be adopted at European level, and then the negotiations between the various entities concerned. In the coming months and years, I want to show above all in deeds, not words, that we prevent dangerous climate change and fully respect our duty to care for all living beings. More specifically, I will propose to the Council of Ministers to take a decision to commit government members to introduce federal climate policies and measures on the basis of the actions identified in the federal contribution to the National Energy and Climate Plan 2021-2030 and the announced initiatives in the Government Agreement. This decision should allow the mobilisation of all relevant actors, in particular the relevant ministers, the competent federal administrations, institutions and companies. I would like to conclude by saying that I take note of what is happening in the Climate Affair. We inherit a dossier where ambitions have undoubtedly not had the desired scope. I inherit this dossier, but I look to the future; the future is an ambition on a Belgian, European and international scale that is enhanced. It is towards this future that I look forward to. It is towards the implementation of the majority agreement that I will concentrate my efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u13	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. As policy makers, we are obliged to regularly answer the question of whether Belgium has sufficient climate policy to protect citizens from a warming rate of more than 1.5°C. If we do not do enough, it will have consequences for citizens, their health and their environment. At the end of last year, Europe has increased its gear. There is now a demand for a 55% reduction in CO2 emissions in the Member States by 2030, a policy that will take shape in the Fit for 55 Package. It is important for our country to cooperate proactively and constructively. This will require cooperation, as you said in your reply. After all, climate policy is not just a competence of you as a climate minister; it also covers other competences such as taxation, mobility and construction. There will also need to be cooperation with the other entities in our country. In other words, cooperation is the key word for me, because we still have a long way to go together. You want to look at our future and I am confident that you will manage this as a federal climate minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u14	The station in Kiewit has been moved. These are confusing times. Climate warming is a very serious matter. Many still do not know what the disruptive consequences can be for society if we do not stop that warming. I fully support the people involved in climate change. It remains to be seen whether the medicine used for this purpose is the right one. Maybe it's also a little out of frustration and wondering what the hell they can do now. Your ambition in that is to your credit. Some also say that it may be time to give nature or our planet a certain legal personality. It is of course a problem that the planet cannot stand up for itself. Others have to do that now. That's what we're establishing now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answers. First of all, as you have said, protection against global warming is essential. The target for the reduction of greenhouse gases by 55% for 2030 has been set and recalled. Climate policy is cross-cutting and cooperation between the federal and federated entities is essential. The objectives are reflected in your general policy note with the ambition you are aware of and have mentioned, but means must be used to achieve them. This is your responsibility, Minister. We will of course be at your side to ensure that these ambitions are achieved and that the means are found to match the ambitions displayed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u16	Madam Secretary, of course I was not present at that trial. I have read the coverage of the author David Van Reybrouck, a very renowned reporter, in which I have great faith. Are you saying he's lying, Madam Secretary? You did not respond to the arguments put forward by the Belgian State, on which he reported. Your answer is not enough for me. Your credibility is at stake here, too. If the lawyers of the Belgian State use arguments that shift all responsibility to citizens and abuse the corona crisis as an excuse not to take any further climate action, then you should correct this, despite all your rhetoric that this government has caused a turnaround and that this government listens to climate science and bases its policy on it? This is all undermined by the government's argument in this climate issue, and that is completely embarrassing to me. It is not about making fronts higher, but if you say one thing publicly and then something else in court, then I think it is my duty to address this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u17	This will undoubtedly be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u18	Minister, many associations and NGOs, including Youth For Climate, are rightly concerned about the impact of a trade treaty between the European Union and Mercosur on climate and biodiversity. Indeed, such a treaty clearly runs counter to the observations and recommendations made by scientists, in particular because it will only increase deforestation and greenhouse gas emissions. If the European Commission is currently working on an additional protocol specifically targeting deforestation and the Paris Agreement, it will obviously be necessary to ensure that it will be quite binding and will therefore effectively address climate issues and forest protection. Minister, what is your position with regard to this trade treaty between the European Union and Mercosur, including with regard to the additional protocol referred to, and more specifically with regard to its impact on climate and biodiversity? The chapter "Sustainable development" contains concerns about its non-binding nature. What steps could be taken to reassure the concerned Member States? Have you had any discussions on this with your European colleagues in charge of climate, environment and biodiversity? If so, what does it show? Have you been consulted on the current benchmarks of the agreement, particularly in relation to environmental standards?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u19	Mr Ben Achour, the conduct of negotiations on free trade agreements is the responsibility of Foreign Affairs. I follow this issue very closely and my administration is actively involved in intra-Belgian discussions on this subject. I have already answered Mrs Daems' questions and I indicated that this is indeed an agreement of the last century that does not support our ambitions in environmental and climate matters. The government agreement explicitly states that under the free trade agreements, the federal government will advocate taking into account the negative impact of deforestation, including the imposition of necessary environmental and sustainability standards. This applies particularly to the free trade agreement with the Mercosur countries, given the dramatic trends of deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon basin. Negotiations on the free trade agreement, including its sustainable development chapter, are closed. It is for this reason that Belgium, together with a number of European Member States, is actively advocating for binding guarantees for reducing deforestation and preserving biodiversity, for social standards to be respected, particularly in the agricultural sector, and for the precautionary principle to be strengthened. Without these additional guarantees, this agreement risks becoming a threat to biodiversity and climate, to our public health and to our own small-scale agriculture. There would also be, as you mentioned, social consequences that we cannot accept. I will remain and remain very attentive to the continuation of the negotiations. I will, like the government as a whole, ensure that any trade agreement ratified by Belgium fully incorporates high environmental standards, with a chapter on "sustainable development" highlighting the Paris Agreement as a binding basis of engagement for all parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u20	Madam Minister, I thank you for this response, full of voluntarism and vigilance, which I fully share, as well as my group. I have been very attentive to the evolution of this issue for several months, since I joined the House. I see this as a very serious threat and even as a form of contradiction with other principles that have been adopted at European and international level. We must therefore be very vigilant. Environmental impacts are direct in terms of deforestation and habitat destruction of local populations. Beyond that, there is a competition with our farmers which is totally unfair. At this point, I see no added value, except for new growth points. But I think it's no longer that way that we need to see the future of humanity. Extreme vigilance in the coming months! The additional protocol, in fact, will be decisive from the point of view of the eventual orientation of this Treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u21	Madam Minister, I read in De Standaard today that the EnergyVille CEO says that the energy change will also mean more comfort for people. He also says that within five years heat pumps, solar panels, charging stations and home batteries will all be normal elements in a house. We note that and that is how we come to the just transition. Your policy paper mentions the organisation of a national conference on the fair transition to meet the challenges for an inclusive climate transition. It also contains the following curious phrase: "It will serve as a basis for raising the issue of its importance during the Belgian Presidency of the European Union. To this end, in consultation with the Länder, work will be carried out, inter alia, with climate tables." We are, of course, thinking of the Dutch example. The Federal Council for Sustainable Development adopted an opinion on the organisation of such a national conference as early as November 2020, shortly after the government was formed. All governments should be represented and civil society representatives should have the opportunity to ask questions or make suggestions directly. What steps have you taken six months after the start of the government with regard to the organisation of the national conference, as included in the policy paper and the federal government agreement? Same thing for working with climate tables. Is there already a concrete view of the design, procedures, composition and objectives of the conference? What's the timing? Surely it is not intended to wait for the Belgian Presidency of the EU in the first part of 2024, so at the end of the legislature? To what extent is the organisation of this national conference consistent with the process of revision of the NEKP? I suppose that review project is ongoing. To what extent is the organisation in keeping with the allocation of the 2030 European Climate Goals between the Member States, the so-called "Effort Sharing Regulation," which, of course, is still under way, as you said earlier this morning?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u22	Madam Minister, in the coalition agreement and in your policy statement, you promised to organise a national conference on the just transition. The trade unions and the environmental movement demand that this conference and discussions on the just transition become a structural process, with periodic and long-term reflection and discussion on how to achieve a just transition. So I do not mean a one-day conference with all fine words, so that you can check this off your policy list, but a new form of structural consultation, a real process that may take one or two years, with specific discussions and working groups on specific aspects. The focus should be not only on employment, but also on energy poverty, the exit from fossil fuels, the reduction of our CO2 emissions and so on. At present there is very little or nothing known about the national conference, except that there will be one. Madam Secretary, how are you going to organise the National Conference on the Righteous Transition? What are the objectives? Who's gonna be involved? When will this take place? What topics will be discussed? Will this be about one limited meeting or do you choose a structural process of reflection and discussion over a longer period, with periodic consultations in different working groups or not? How can citizens make their voices heard and contribute to the national conference on the fair transition?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u23	This government has set ambitious climate targets. The participatory approach should be central to the definition of the transition to these objectives, as provided for in the government agreement. The various processes listed in the government agreement and in the National Energy and Climate Plan need to be carefully worked out, whether the conference on the fair transition, the climate tables or the dialogue with the mayors of the cities and municipalities of our country. The development of the various participatory processes is not yet complete, but in full development. I can already assure you that I will take into account the advice of the Federal Council for Sustainable Development and that policies to support the increase of the 2030 targets will be discussed with stakeholders. You can assume that I will not wait until the start of the Belgian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2024 to begin this work. I have read very carefully the Federal Council Opinion of 20 November 2020 on the organisation of a national conference on a fair transition to an environmentally sustainable economy and society for all. From an environmental point of view, the transition is a matter that no one is questioning. We need to reduce our greenhouse gases more and more quickly, protect and restore biodiversity and ecosystems, reduce soil, water and air pollution, as well as our consumption of raw materials and our production of waste. There is no scientific and political consensus on all of this without any discussion. We also know that the transition costs less than sitting still and that, regardless of its cost, a failed transition is not an option, simply because the conditions for the viability of humanity itself are at stake. However, compliance with the planetary boundary can be achieved in different ways. The transition can be just or unjust. In this context, we can boast of a long tradition of justice in our society, especially vis-à-vis the workers of the sectors involved in the transition, vis-à-vis companies and investors, vis-à-vis citizens and consumers, vis-à-vis future generations and the people of the rest of the world. In addition to an environmental ceiling, there is also a need for a social threshold, in particular do no harm and no one left behind. I believe that the link between the transition requirements and the requirements of social justice is the missing link that is currently paralysing our society against the transition. The Federal Council for Sustainable Development recommends organising a national conference on a fair transition, based on the guidelines of the International Labour Organisation, with the concept of fair transition as included in international agreements, such as the Paris Climate Agreement and other international declarations. This international framework is a necessity. The undesirable effects of the transition should indeed be avoided. It will also be important to involve the regions and their governments as well as civil society and citizens. The dialogue between civil society and government will be important for the process, as will the input of experts and scientists, of young people and of invisible weak or poorly represented population groups. The themes will be defined. This will contribute to a clear report delivered to all governments and stakeholders at the end of the process. The Federal Council for Sustainable Development has dealt with the following three themes of the International Labour Organisation: macroeconomic and growth policies, industrial and sectoral policies and skills development. It is my intention to consider whether we should also include other of the nine themes of the fair transition, as determined by the International Labour Organisation. As far as the climate tables and the strengthening of the federal part of the NEKP by 2023 are concerned, we have chosen to put the governance of the main federal climate measures on hold first. My proposal is currently being discussed within the government. After all, we want any debate with stakeholders to take place on the basis of a transparent reporting of the progress of federal climate policy. So it becomes clear what is already there and what may happen in addition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u24	Madam Minister, the participatory processes are apparently still being fully prepared. You referred to it again at the end of your reply. No one left behind . I hope so, because heat pumps, solar panels, charging stations and home batteries: I do not need to tell you what is currently happening in Flanders, where your fellow minister says that it is not now time to reform further. For example, there is today the whole debate on the capacity rate. I am very curious how everything within this participatory approach will flow together nicely. You're facing a heavy task.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u25	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. All you have said is that the participation processes are still under development. We don't know much about that, of course. You must be able today to indicate whether it is a one-off event or a longer process. I'm surprised this stays in the background. Let us be clear: it is important for us to organise a structural process, with periodic consultations and longer-term reflection. To achieve a just transition, a one-time event simply is not enough. A just transition must be the starting point or DNA of Belgian climate policy. With a one-time event, this is impossible to achieve.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u26	Madam Minister, by 3 July 2021 at the latest, all EU Member States are to transpose the European Directive of 5 June 2019 on the reduction of the effects of certain plastic products on the environment, the so-called Single-Use Plastics Directive (SUP) into national law. The Belgian transposition law was adopted in committee last year, but it has been deafeningly silent ever since. The law is still not on the agenda of the plenary. Many companies in the packaging sector are concerned and rightly ask for clarity. They must be able to prepare themselves in good time for the new rules. Today I have a single and very specific question. When will the government implement the European directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u27	Mr Raskin, I understand your impatience and, like our President, I have read your statements with great attention. But let me remind you that the accumulation of transposition delays is linked to a government crisis that has caused your political family. However, I can reassure you and assure you that the deadline for dispatch, in particular 3 July 2021, will be respected. A draft Royal Decree was submitted to the Interministerial Conference on Environment and will be discussed on 1 April 2021. This decision will then have to go through a number of further steps. It should be subject to the advice of the Federal Advisory Councils and that of the Finance Inspector, and it should be approved by the Secretary of State for the Budget and the Council of Ministers. It should be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion in order to be finally signed and published as KB.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u28	Madam Secretary, I think this is punishment. The impatience and legal uncertainty in which many companies find themselves would be the responsibility of my party, because the formation of government has taken too long. Excuse me, but that's a weakness offer. It's a criminal record. It's one of the schisms that runs right through your Vivaldiploeg. It appears to be a mini-wage law story, where the PS at the time tried in a devious way to weigh up the mere transposition of a European directive by going into gold plating and entering the territory of the Regions. The Council of State had to interfere, including the Legal Service of the Chamber. At that time we needed two readings and many amendments. But that wasn't supposed to benefit. It's your party that used her weight to push that PS story through. I understand this not so much from your explanation as such, but from the document in the newspaper to which you and the President refer. I understand that you have had to commit and will come up with a KB that will take the addition of the PS idea out of pure transposition. If that is correct, I am pleased that the sector is finally given the legal certainty it deserves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u29	Madam Minister, recently the European Commission reminded Belgium of its failure to comply with European air quality regulations and invited it to take the necessary steps to resolve these shortcomings within the next two months, otherwise the Commission could turn to the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Commission pointed out that, for a number of years, nitrogen dioxide (NO2) concentrations in several areas of our country have exceeded the threshold mentioned in the 2008 European Air Directive. In 2018, the European Commission already pointed out that Belgium was not persistently complying with its obligation relating to nitrogen dioxide (NO2) concentration thresholds and was transmitting a letter of formal notice, the first step in a procedure leading to financial sanctions. Minister, could we receive your feedback on this? Have you made contact with your relevant regional colleagues and other policy makers on this issue? If so, could we get information about this? More than 30 days have passed since the European Commission's injunction. Can we be informed of the measures envisaged to resolve the shortcomings mentioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u30	Mr Senesael, the reasoned opinion sent by the Commission, as you have said, comes in the context of an infringement procedure against Belgium concerning non-compliance with European air quality rules. This opinion follows a notice already issued in 2016 which was the subject of a first response by the three Regions. The infringements found relate to NOx concentrations and the number of annual exceedances tolerated in the Brussels area, in the Antwerp agglomeration and in the port area (still in Antwerp), as well as to the non-conformity of the positioning of the measuring stations in Brussels. The item was put on the agenda of the Interdepartmental Environment Commission on 1 April, at the request of the Brussels Region. Additional time will be requested in the light of data and other factual elements, such as the number of bodies concerned. You refer to the period of more than 30 days since the European Commission's injunction. All this is under discussion with the Regions, the latter being fully responsible for the implementation of Directive 2008/50/EC. As far as infringement proceedings are concerned, you will understand that at this stage I am refraining from prejudging the answers that will be given by my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u31	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Given the number of bodies involved, I can of course understand that an additional period of time will be requested. I understand that on 1 April - I hope it is not a fish - was chosen for the meeting of the bodies concerned. I'm just drawing your attention so that you're on this large enough plane that concerns all these instances, that you're an informed pilot and that you can take all the actors involved into your positive wake. Indeed, we should not be pointed out by the European Commission. I'm sure you're as aware of it as I am, if not more.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u32	Mr President, Minister, you are of course also active in the European forum with your colleagues. European Ministers for the Environment also hold regular meetings. There was an important meeting on 18 March 2021. Following this meeting, you welcomed the adoption of the conclusions in the strategy for the sustainability of chemicals, in particular a new European strategy on chemicals. As announced in the federal government agreement, this strategy seems to meet the challenges of protecting the environment and human health, in particular for vulnerable populations. Madam Minister, you immediately used this to launch a fair transition towards sustainable, green and climate-neutral chemistry, ensuring the adaptation of our chemical industry. The new strategy is part of zero waste's EU ambition for a poison-free environment and pursues a dual objective, namely better protection of citizens and the environment against the most dangerous chemicals and also encouraging our chemical efforts towards innovation and competitiveness. Can you explain more about your priorities which were apparently incorporated to your satisfaction in the final conclusions of the European strategy? Can you also take this opportunity to give a brief debriefing here in committee of the meeting of the European Environment Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u33	Mr Ravyts, it has been one of my priorities in the Council negotiations to ensure a high level of protection of the environment and public health, particularly for the most vulnerable groups of our population. We have therefore strongly supported the political call for the Commission to initiate a fair, socially balanced and inclusive transition to the production and use of chemicals that are more environmentally friendly, safer and sustainable. We have also urged the Commission to take relevant measures to adequately protect vulnerable groups, including a horizontal and harmonised approach to all chemicals legislation. Finally, it is the development of a safe and sustainable chemical industry at European level which, in my view, will make it possible to strengthen the competitiveness of our European industry, particularly the Belgian industry, while at the same time providing general protection for the environment and public health, particularly for consumers, vulnerable groups and workers. In parallel with these conclusions, we also wanted to stress that in our view the Council missed an opportunity to set a high level of ambition with regard to the implementation of certain key measures of the chemicals strategy. In this respect, Belgium reiterated the need to provide for measures on harmful chemicals produced exclusively for export, even if they are no longer authorised within the Union. In particular, we have highlighted the fundamental ethical and moral nature of this type of action for Europe, which must be a world leader in the fields of environmental protection and public health. We have also explicitly supported the European strategy on PFAS, which includes a ban on PFAS. This principle could indeed be subject to a temporary and very limited exception. A derogation from this prohibition could only be granted for specific uses, which have been demonstrated to be essential for society and as long as there is no alternative. Finally, we agreed with all European countries on the importance of implementing the strategy without further delay. We have an ambitious power of attorney which is supported by the majority of Member States and which we must now put into practice as soon as possible in order to achieve the objective of an environment without toxic substances. An informal video conference between European Environment Ministers took place on 18 March. The Portuguese Presidency used this meeting to inform European ministers on the process of adopting the Council conclusions on the EU strategy for sustainability in the field of chemicals. These were adopted by the Council on 15 March 2021 by written procedure and are now on the Council's website together with our written statement. The Member States are unanimous in their support. We all now have the implementation of this strategy in mind. In line with the coalition agreement and my general policy paper, I will urge both Belgian and European and international levels to maintain the European level of ambition and to implement the actions without undue delays.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u34	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. The aim must be to bring harmony between the level of competition on the one hand and the general protection of the environment and public health on the other. You have clearly said that Belgium supports the European strategy. This is also an important point of reference for Mr Senesael who has put forward a proposal on this matter in this committee. I think he's gonna have to update his proposal a little bit. This is also reflected in the opinions of the various administrations, including the FPS Public Health and the Environment. I hope this happens in the next few weeks and months. The debate will undoubtedly continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u35	Mr President, Madam Minister, published on 17 March 2021 in Nature magazine, the study "Protecting the global ocean for biodiversity, food and climate" reveals that human activities in the deep seabed – and in particular trawling or industrial scraping – in addition to representing a real danger to biodiversity, cause a release of CO2 emissions substantially similar to that caused by the air sector. The study states that "Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) are an effective tool for restoring ocean biodiversity and ecosystem services" but that "currently only 2.7% of the ocean is highly protected". In Europe, only 380 km2 of the 551 296 km2 of MPA would be protected from human activities. Minister, can we have your feedback on this study? Have any contacts been made with your competent colleagues on this issue? If so, would we be able to obtain information on this matter? In your policy note, you argue that "negative impacts on the seabed as a result of extractive activities must be significantly reduced, that good ecological status must be achieved and that by-catch of species must be eliminated or limited to a level that allows for recovery and conservation. Can you tell us whether initiatives have been or will be considered for this purpose? Can we be informed of commitments made in this area, particularly at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u36	Mr Senesael, the study referred to confirms the importance of protecting and preserving the biodiversity of marine ecosystems. The ocean also plays an important role in climate regulation. Belgium has been advocating the protection of the oceans for several years now, because a healthy ocean contributes to our health and the health of the whole planet. This is why Belgium has been one of the key members of the 30X30 initiative since 2019, which is fighting for a strong 30% protection of the oceans by 2030. Achieving this goal will contribute, among other things, to healthier ecosystems that are more resilient to the effects of climate change, to creating safe havens for endangered species such as whales, sharks, skates, turtles and even a greater diversity of species. Within the International Whaling Commission, Belgium plays a central role in reducing by-catch of small cetaceans from the IWC Bycatch Mitigation Initiative. I will continue to support this operation, which will start pilot by-catch mitigation projects in the coming months, if the conditions of the pandemic permit. In the same organization, Belgium actively supports the creation of a marine sanctuary for whales in the Atlantic Ocean. Within the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources, our country has been advocating for years for a representative network of marine protected areas. The European Union and its Member States will again put two proposals to this end on the agenda for the next meeting of this Commission, to be held in October. The new European biodiversity strategy for 2030 also includes the target of 30% of European protected areas, one third of which must be strictly protected. It is important that protected areas be managed effectively and that they be subject to clear and ambitious conservation measures. The Commission will publish its guidance and the criteria for achieving this objective at the end of the year. At the international level, Belgium signed the Pact for Nature last year at the Biodiversity Summit. It commits itself, together with more than 80 other countries and many non-State actors, to addressing the direct and indirect factors of biodiversity loss and to halting the extinction of human-induced species, to assume the recovery of species populations and to significantly increase the protection of the planet's lands and oceans through representative, well-connected and effectively managed systems of protected areas. We also commit ourselves to making the transition to sustainable production and consumption patterns and sustainable food systems that meet the needs of the people, while remaining within the limits of the planet, including eliminating unsustainable uses of the ocean and its resources and working with other stakeholders, with a view to developing a global and coherent approach to protecting the ocean and making sustainable use of its resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u37	With regard to other initiatives such as Low Leaders, the marine biodiversity of areas outside national jurisdiction and the Marine Strategy Framework Directive, I refer you to my esteemed colleague Vincent Van Quickenborne's answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u38	Madam Minister, thank you for the quality of your response and, above all, for the various proposals envisaged to further enhance the protection of our oceans. You have said this and I share your analysis of the importance of the ocean in climate regulation, which can be seen as the barometer of the health of our planet. I am also pleased that you have supported the goal of the 30X30 initiative because it is a particular program that I am, namely 30% oceans for 2030! Biodiversity is of paramount importance in achieving this objective. Belgium can play a central and essential role, in particular through the establishment of pilot projects. Among other things, you have cited the whale marine sanctuary as the objective being the preservation and enhancement of the fauna and flora in our marine areas with the clear and ambitious conservation measures that are ours. Thank you for your commitment and congratulations for your initiatives!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u39	Mr President, I had a similar question about the same report addressed to Mrs Khattabi but which was sent directly to Mr. Van Quickenborne. That is interesting because I will have Mrs Khattabi's answer, but what surprises me is the fact that two similar questions have been sent to two different committees. Again, it's no big deal and I'll be happy to ask Mr. Van Quickenborne, however, there is still a mystery about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u40	I'm on the same team as Mrs. de Laveleye. The same thing happened to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u41	The distribution of powers remains a bit problematic, but I have understood from the answer that there is good consultation between the two ministers. Here in Parliament, however, this gives rise to some inconvenience. We'll see how we can fix that. Thank you both for your comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u42	Madame de Laveleye, I hope this is not a problem of sexism. It's a piece of shit. Minister, a study conducted by researchers at the universities of Leuven, Antwerpen and Hasselt, by the intermutualist agency and by Sciensano, has shown that exposure to high concentrations of fine particles, particularly fine particles PM 10 and PM 2.5, raises the risk of a stroke or heart attack. Minister, I will not insult you to ask if you have read this study. But I'd like to get you back to that. Can I remind you that a few months ago you told me that your "policies will contribute to the efforts of the regions responsible for air quality policies in Belgium and within the framework of the NEC 2030 Directive"? You added that you asked your administration to reassess the environmental performance of heating appliances and fuels to limit or even reduce the particle contribution of this sector. Finally, you indicated that your administration was conducting several studies on the evolution of heating techniques up to 2050 and that further studies were being prepared to review the quality of solid fuels. Can we obtain information on this contribution, on the initiatives undertaken and on those envisaged? Can we be informed of the evaluation and the studies I have just mentioned? Can we know the state of play and the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u43	Mr Senesael, I assume you are referring to the study published in 2020 in the journal Science of the Total Environnement, whose name is Residential green spaces evolution, socio-economic deprivation and cardiovascular medicine sales in Belgium, a nationwide ecological study. This study shows the link between cardiovascular disease drug use and exposure to fine particles. As the causal link has been demonstrated for some 20 years, the contribution of this study is to show the extent and cost of health care. This study also establishes the benefits of green spaces and the need to continue efforts to reduce PM emissions. However, domestic heating, as we know, is the first source. After establishing different scenarios by 2030 to estimate emissions from the residential heating sector, which are consistent with our climate commitments, the administration is studying the evolutions and new technical possibilities of the different heating modes and their fuels. The first study concerns heat pumps. Further studies are planned this year, particularly with regard to stoves and pellets. The conclusions of these various studies will make it possible, by 2023, to propose a revision of the various royal decrees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answers. Of course, we will not fail to follow with interest the studies you mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u45	Mr President, Madam Minister, a study carried out by the NGO Transport & Environment, commissioned by the European Commission, revealed the problems associated with the international system CORSIA, a programme of the United Nations (UN) International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) supported by the European Union to reduce CO2 emissions from aviation. Solutions to the problems relating to CORSIA's commitments, which will have to be adopted from 2027 onwards, are currently being examined by the European Union. Minister, can we have your feedback on the issue? Have any contacts been made with your colleague in charge of Mobility about the CORSIA program? If so, can we have any information on this? Are initiatives being considered now? As aviation has had little impact on international climate agreements for many years, the United Nations estimates that its greenhouse gas emissions, which currently account for 2 to 3 per cent of global emissions, are likely to triple by 2050. Have any contacts been made with representatives of federated entities and neighbouring countries in particular, with a view to countering this phenomenon? Can initiatives be expected in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u46	Mr President, Mr Senesael, I am well aware of and concerned about the problem posed by the aviation sector in terms of its impact on the climate and the worrying developments in the sector's emissions. The aviation sector is subject to different regulatory frameworks at European and international level. The European quota trading market sets an emission ceiling for all energy-intensive industrial installations and air transport. Although aviation emissions have been included in the European market since 2012, aviation emissions that are covered are currently limited to flights landing and taking off from the European Economic Area and Switzerland and not to flights to and from third countries until 2023. This exemption has been included to give way to the development of the international compensation system CORSIA, based on emissions compensation and not on an emission ceiling, the pilot phase of which will begin this year on a voluntary basis. Given the importance of flights from third countries whose emissions are higher than those from intra-European flights, different routes with links with ICAO and international partners should be explored. The European Commission will propose a revision of the aviation rules in the second quarter of this year. I believe it is necessary for the market to return to its original scope from 2023, i.e. to cover all flights from airports in the countries of the European Economic Area and third countries. Furthermore, since there is no risk of carbon leakage or relocation for the air sector, we need to significantly reduce and try to eliminate free allowances for this sector. At the same time, in the context of the revision of the Energy Taxation Directive, it seems essential to remove the current exemption for kerosene. Finally, as far as international policy is concerned, I am in favour of Belgium calling for an increase in ambition under the International Aviation Carbon Compensation and Reduction Scheme (CORSIA) and for the transition of short-range flights to other efficient decarbonised means of transport. At Belgian level, the National Energy-Climate Plan provides for the development of a roadmap for aviation and calls, at European level, for the prohibition of chip jumping as part of the implementation of the European Commission's sustainable and smart mobility strategy. Credible alternatives to these chip jumps should also be proposed as part of the modal shift from the aircraft to the train. The Mobility FPS is currently carrying out a study on this subject. For more details, I invite you to address my colleague, Minister Gilkinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Like you, I am concerned about developments in this sector of aviation. Needless to say, several leads – you define a few – must be explored. I fully share your analysis and the elements contained in your answer. You can count on our group to ensure that the proposals put forward can be brought into line and come to fruition. I thank you for your efforts in this area and hope that this second quarter will live up to the hopes and, above all, the ambitions formulated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u48	Minister, on March 19, you presented the preliminary draft Federal Sustainable Development Plan (FSDP) to the Council of Ministers. This is the first time in more than ten years that such a plan is on the table of the government, whereas this obligation rests, according to the Act of 5 May 1997, with each new government. Thanks already for that. To comply with the law, a final version of the Sustainable Development Plan will have to be ready one year after the government takes office. You have also committed yourself to this in your policy brief. Observers have already been able to highlight several strengths of the preliminary draft, but also several challenges that remain to be addressed in order to ensure that it is as ambitious and concrete as possible. It is expected that the preliminary draft plan will be submitted to the consultation of a wide range of citizens, organisations, advisory councils and parliaments, so I also imagine at home. What issues do you think need to be further strengthened in this preliminary draft? How do you see the way to the finalized Federal Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u49	Mr President, Minister, on 19 March you sent out a press release on the new Federal Plan for Sustainable Development. The preliminary draft of that plan was then discussed at the Ministerial Council and will then be submitted for consultation to citizens, organisations, advisory councils and Members of Parliament, you wrote. According to the press release, the preliminary draft makes proposals on, inter alia, promoting the circular economy, stepping up the fight against illegal timber trade, promoting fairer and greener taxation and facilitating access to social rights. The preliminary draft also aims to strengthen the role of the federal state in the field of mobility, teleworking and environmental management, among other things. That is why I have the following questions to ask you. What are the main measures contained in the new FPDO? What is the follow-up to the preliminary draft? Can you explain the next steps and the timing? In what way will you organise the consultation? How can citizens make their voices heard? What is the role of the consultation that is now being organised? In what way will you take into account all the feedback you receive? How does your intention to organise a national conference on a just transition relate to this consultation and the preparation of an FPDO? Will the results of this national conference be incorporated into that federal plan? Finally, as far as the consultation of parliaments is concerned, how will you involve this committee in the preparation of the FPDO?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u50	Ms. de Laveleye, Ms. Daems, the process of developing the Federal Sustainable Development Plan is largely marked by the Act of May 5, 1997 revised in 2010. The way to the adoption of the plan within the legal deadline is clear. Preparation of the preliminary draft plan takes place within the Interdepartmental Commission on Sustainable Development. It adopted an independent text at the end of January, which I received at the beginning of February and which I then submitted to the Council of Ministers for deliberation. The public consultation will be open on 1 April. This will take place for two months until the end of May. As provided for in the law, the preliminary draft plan will be presented to the legislative chambers, the Council and the governments of the Regions and the Communities. The aim of the public consultation is to strengthen the initial proposals with the opinion of the Federal Council for Sustainable Development. Other interested councils, organisations and citizens will also be able to make their comments. The preliminary draft plan will be available on the Sustainable Development website from 1 April.be. For this consultation process, I will ensure that we apply the Leave no one principle, which is crucial for the 2030 Agenda. We want to avoid that only specialists respond to the preliminary draft proposals and ensure that parts of the population that are more vulnerable and/or less visible are also heard. In the context of the present crisis, this aspect seems all the more crucial to me. For this reason, I opened the discussion to a broader panel than the "usual suspects". As of early June, the ICDD will then deal with all comments and opinions received, which will be reflected in a draft plan that will be forwarded to me by the end of July at the latest. As early as August, we will launch a political debate on it, leading to an agreement before 1 October. With regard to the issues dealt with in the preliminary draft plan, it seems to me that our potential scope for action is very broad, given that we are asking the question of the nature of the development we want for our societies. Again, we already have a compass, because sustainable development goals have been set. In 2013, the long-term federal strategic vision for sustainable development set 55 targets for 2050. In addition, UN member States agreed in 2015 on the 17 Sustainable Development Goals for 2030. The next plan must therefore propose a five-year step towards achieving these objectives. To contribute to this, our actions will have to be ambitious, because it is a matter of transforming our way of development. Given federal jurisdiction, this plan must be that of the government as a whole. The goal is to mobilize all federal levers for this purpose by coordinating the actions of several members of the government and several jurisdictions. The plan is also intended to strengthen the coherence of these initiatives by setting common objectives. It should also provide guidance to federal governments so that they all contribute to sustainable development goals. Today, the government is developing and adopting many plans that partially contribute to it, but this initiative can be made more explicit and effective if we consolidate inter-jurisdictional cooperation, to prevent certain actions in one sector from countering those developed in another. It goes without saying that, like the preliminary draft Federal Plan for Sustainable Development, a national conference on a just transition should contribute to a more sustainable society and the achievement of the SDGs. The legal obligation of the government to adopt a definitive Federal Plan for Sustainable Development one year after its arrival does not allow us to await the participatory and in-depth process of a national conference on a just transition. I will, of course, ensure that both processes are complementary. In any event, I look forward to learning about the results of the consultation and to continuing the process of dialogue with civil society on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answers. We must now work on the basis of this preliminary project, which we look forward to discovering at the beginning of April. We will be able to discuss in the committee how to organise ourselves so that we can make a useful contribution to this consultation process. I would like to stress my satisfaction at finally having an open debate on the development project we want. We have been deprived of it in the last ten years. It is a good thing that our administrations, government, civil society and parliaments can think together in one way or another about the best development project ever. Really who we can get to work! We will see with the chairman of the committee how we can organise it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u52	Indeed, that is what we will do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u53	Madam Minister, you have actually answered my previous question. You said that a national conference on a just transition would be an in-depth and long-term process. You did not just say that, remarkable, but I thank you for that. I look forward to the preliminary draft of the Federal Plan for Sustainable Development and the consultation you will launch. It is essential that citizens can make their voices heard in this. I am now reassured that this will happen. We will see to it that their response is taken into account. I am also looking forward to discussing your preliminary draft in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u54	The COP26 Presidency is organising a Ministerial Summit on "Climate and Development" on March 31. The organizers highlight the various challenges facing the most vulnerable countries, such as rising temperatures, economic shocks and VOCID-19. Among the axes discussed is the quantity, quality and composition of climate finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u55	Mr President, Mrs de Laveleye, vulnerable countries are a priority for Belgian climate finance, particularly the least developed countries or African countries. In recent years, the federal government has systematically "cut the lion's share" in Belgian climate finance, exceeding the annual contribution of EUR 50 million. The national negotiations on the contribution of the different authorities are part of the broader negotiations on the allocation of efforts to achieve the climate targets for the period 2021-2030. The Belgian objectives in the context of raising the level of European ambition are not yet known. As I have already said several times, they will result from the revision of the various legislations concerned, including the European regulation Effort sharing, for which the Commission's proposals are expected in mid-2021. On the sidelines of the National Climate Commission, with a view to reaching a political agreement before COP26 in Glasgow in November 2021, a state of affairs should be presented by the Walloon Presidency of the National Climate Commission at the next meeting scheduled for May. Pending an agreement on climate finance, it is up to each entity to determine its contribution. The federal government will honour past commitments, including doubling its contribution to the Green Climate Fund. In the coalition agreement, the government committed itself to increasing its contribution to international climate finance, regardless of the development cooperation budget. A concrete first step in this regard is the government's approval of an interdepartmental provision for climate finance of 12 million per year for the period 2021-2024. I am studying this with my colleague Kitir in charge of development cooperation. I will continue to work within the government to further increase the federal contribution to international climate funding over the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u56	Madam Minister, thank you. It is true that there is a need for clear objectives for COP26. These negotiations are known to be very cumbersome, particularly at the interregional level and between the federal and regional levels. That is why it is really important that the public debate be organised now in relation to these ambitions. It's not the last second we're gonna find a solution. I am pleased that, by May, more concrete things may already be on the table. You're doing very well to remind us that the federal government is already providing. This was one of the federal government's priorities. Thank you. However, I would like to point out that the contribution of EUR 50 million is assessed as being extremely low compared to what should be the fair share of the Belgian State as a whole, not just by the federal government. It is a question of having to finance up to 500 billion. Of course, no one is bound to the impossible. But I think there is a strong expectation that our commitment will truly meet our historic responsibility for climate change in the countries of the South. On the other hand, there is the question of additionality. You recalled that this is important to the federal government, and I thank you for that. Indeed, so far, this was almost exclusively on the shoulders of development cooperation, when we know that development cooperation must support many other issues. As ecologists, we encourage you to continue your advocacy at the federal and regional levels to ensure that everyone has an ambitious hand in relation to our historical responsibility, and to ensure that additionality is real. Courage for these negotiations! We're with you. You have no doubt that I will come to ask Mrs Kitir the same questions to encourage her, alongside you, to achieve ambitious results.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u57	That's a great fight!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u58	Question No 55016013C by Mrs Mélissa Hanus is transformed into a written question. Mrs Marghem has asked me to wait until she can be present, so she will ask her questions at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u59	Madam Minister, the climate problem is an international one, so I like to look around at what is happening in the rest of the world. What seemed to me to be very interesting is the Co2nstructZero initiative in Great Britain, a rather ambitious plan of the construction sector to further reduce emissions. The sector itself is very proud of that, and that shows me that it is an ideal way of working: by allowing people to take responsibility for themselves, people simply create much more acceptance. Much has already been said today about the involvement and participation of the different sectors. In this context, I had the same reflex, hence my questions. Are there any initiatives by the construction sector in this area today, or have you already been in contact with the sector, especially since we are giving some money to the construction sector in the context of the European revival? Any appointments made? Do you think that the construction sector is a sector that should certainly sit at the table when you organise the climate tables?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Verduyckt, for drawing our attention to the interesting initiative in the British construction sector. I share your view that the things you list are significant steps to put the construction sector on the road to climate neutrality. You talked about ambitions around emissions-free transport, improved logistics and thus less transport, energy-efficient housing construction, scaling up low-carbon heat solutions, implementing carbon measurement in construction projects and broadening the use of low-carbon materials. It will not surprise you that most of these matters are regional competences, which must therefore be included in the regions by the ministers of climate, energy, mobility or circular economy. Where I or my federal colleagues can, we are happy to contribute to it, such as the emission reduction of commercial cars, improved rail freight transport or product standardisation. It is true that I intend to organise climate tables and invite representatives from the various economic sectors, including the construction sector. I aim at two exercises: one for 2030 to strengthen the federal part of the NEKP, and one in which we share the knowledge and challenges for the transition to climate neutrality with stakeholders and citizens by 2050 and engage in dialogue on this issue. For that last point, I am thinking of cooperation with Parliament. The 2030 climate tables are now planned to be an answer to the previous After all, we want governments to do their own homework before they engage stakeholders again. That is why this year I am focusing on the governance of federal climate policy with detailed action plans for all federal policies and measures, the national input for the European Fit for 55 package that is due in June, and finally the negotiation of a new cooperation agreement with the three other entities on the sharing of climate and energy targets for 2030. I hope that by making progress on these three dossiers, by the end of 2021, we will know very well what we need to do by 2030, and how far we are already coming with the existing policies and measures from the federal part of the National Energy and Climate Plan (NEKP) and the coalition agreement. I see the climate tables as a way of involving stakeholders in further strengthening policies and removing barriers to important existing measures. In recent weeks there have already been contacts with players in the construction sector, although more in the context of the Fit for 55 discussions, such as with FEBELCEM. I support your plea to use the investments under the Relance Plan as a lever for sustainability, something on which Secretary of State Dermine can undoubtedly give you more explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u61	Madam Minister, I would like to refer to such good initiatives. What do I learn from the Co2nstructZero initiative? We shouldn't be looking for a miracle solution. A lot of things are possible today. A number of things have been brought together in a plan with a clear objective. I also think it is a good thing to involve the construction sector in the climate tables. This was also one of the sectors involved in the climate tables in the Netherlands. I was, however, enthusiastic about the way in which this was proposed here in Parliament. For my group, this is really a priority. We believe that there is a great deal of climate gain to be gained in the construction and renovation of houses, as well as a great deal of economic gain and profit for those who benefit from well-insulated living. We will certainly come back to this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u62	Mr President, Minister, this question concerns the European plans to extend the ETS system to possible construction and road transport. Do you know which way this is going? What are your views on Europe's plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u63	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, your question on the possible enlargement of the EU ETS is a very important issue, namely the future architecture of European climate policy. The revisions announced by the European Commission under the Fit for 55 package in June are the result of the 2030 Climate Target Plan, in which the Commission described all possible changes to the current climate and energy policy framework needed in light of the increased 2030 target to reach at least -55 %. The different options for the specific legislative instruments are currently being further explored through new specific impact assessments. First of all, the Commission is putting forward ideas to review the overall architecture of the climate framework. The Commission stresses the central role of carbon price in cost-effective climate policy and proposes several options for introducing it in sectors outside the EU ETS. As far as the maritime sector is concerned, the current European emissions trading system, which already covers international aviation, is to be extended to include at least intra-EU air and shipping. Three options are proposed for the non-ETS sectors, currently covered by the Effort Sharing Regulation. The option that the Commission is likely to put forward is to include domestic and motor fuels in a separate new ETS, but at the same time leave the buildings and transport sectors in the ESA with specific country targets, the so-called double coverage, until at least 2030. In addition to possible changes to the architecture of European climate policy, the Commission is likely to propose in June to revise specific legislation, in particular the ETS and LULUCF Directives and the Efficiency Sharing Regulation, as well as legislation on CO2 standards for cars, energy efficiency and renewable energy. Within the ETS legislation, the ceiling should be tightened in line with the new objective by increasing the linear reduction factor.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The provisions on carbon leakage, in particular the quantity of allowances reserved for free allocation, and the link with the carbon border adjustment mechanism, which can limit the need for free allowances, will be important. Finally, there will also be a discussion on the distribution of auction costs for the European Union between the European Member States. With the input of the federal climate administration, I am still fully engaged in analysing the many proposals and making position proposals to the federal government. I can already tell you that I approach the many Commission proposals with an open mind, but I will always keep a watchful eye on a number of key elements. A good climate policy is not just about the prices of pollution. Clean alternatives must also be available and affordable for everyone. This means that European standardisation and climate policy in the Member States are at least as important. For example, if you want to leave the diesel car on the left, you need bicycle paths, land paths or good public transport. A CO2 tax does not ensure this. That is why I will be advocating the preservation of the Efficiency Sharing Regulation with climate objectives for the emissions of buildings and transport for the Member States. Climate policy in the Member States remains therefore important. Investment is often needed and sometimes compensation for the social or economic consequences of a CO2 price, which means that revenues from auctioning allowances must continue to flow back to the Member States so that they can target vulnerable families or businesses, finance investments and achieve a fair transition. We have learned from the history of the EU ETS that the price can fluctuate enormously and depends on the economic situation. This may not have been an insurmountable problem for companies because they could cover themselves against price fluctuations. However, this is an undesirable feature for families. That is why I will ensure that any new European carbon pricing does not lead to excessive price fluctuations and is sufficiently predictable. The same applies to a possible review of the Energy Taxation Directive. Dated or unjust exceptions may disappear. The aim of the Directive is to ensure a level playing field in Europe with predictable energy charges, which will go back to the Member States as much as possible, in particular to citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u64	Madam Minister, it is a very interesting subject and indeed an essential step. I understand you're spending a little more time on that. Enlargement is an essential step because it is very difficult at national level to move forward on carbon pricing. There's a lot of cold feet about that. I agree with the second part of your answer. You say that a CO2 tax can be directing, but we must ensure that everyone can come along. We also need to use this revenue to a large extent to make investments to get everyone involved. That's important because there has to be a basis for support. A colleague just referred to the interview with EnergyVille's top man. He's very optimistic about that. I'm fine with that. I'm also a progressive optimist, but we have to be careful. Madam Secretary, you say you will analyse the proposals. I will also analyse your answer, but thank you for your information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u65	Mr President, this question is somewhat in line with the previous questions, in the sense that I would like to draw attention here too to a number of current events which are sometimes under-explored. On the one hand there is Canada, which we often see as an example. Justin Trudeau has turned the carbon price into his most important tool to bring his country to net zero emissions by 2050. This legislation was attacked by a number of provincial governments, but the chief judge of Canada made a clear statement: this is a matter of national interest, the climate warming is real, he said, and he wiped the objections off the table. On the other hand, on the same continent, in the United States, the oil sector has developed with a significant change in its strategy, in particular that they will no longer oppose ideas such as carbon prices. They lobbied against it for ten years, but they adopted a climate action framework last week. Of course, climate activists are still concerned and vigilant, and they do not trust that sector, but I would prefer a sector that says it wants to go ahead rather than a sector that actively opposes it. Those are two important things on that continent, which indicate that the spirits are gradually evolving. I wonder if there are any contacts in Belgium with the oil sector? Do you know what the sector is like? Do they make that turn too? I would also like an update on the carbon tarification dossier in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u66	It is clear, Mr Verduyckt, that the subject of carbon pricing concerns you. Not unjustly, because it's an important subject, but that doesn't mean I keep having something new to report. In the last few weeks there have been mainly preparatory work on my part. This means that, together with the federal climate administration, I am fully prepared for the forthcoming European debate to properly price emissions from various sectors such as shipping or construction. As you know, in June, the European Commission will come forward with proposals that may call for the introduction of a European carbon pricing system for sectors not yet included in the ETS. Public authorities can give guidance to the Commission in advance and will have to take a position after that in any case. Contacts with the European Commission also show that it attaches great importance to federal tax reforms and the company car file. These reforms are also mentioned in the Relance Plan, which further anchors them and underlines their importance. A timeline is also provided. As has already been said, the Minister for Finance is in charge of both dossiers. I also see in our contacts that he wants to make clear progress in this regard. We provide him with all the relevant information, such as the possible environmental impact or safeguarding the social justice of the proposals. We maintain constructive contacts with the Belgian Petroleum Federation, often in more technical dossiers such as biofuels. As you may know, the BPF supports a CO2 price for buildings and transport under conditions. In this respect, you can consult the presentation given by the Secretary-General of the BPF, Mr Jean-Pierre Van Dijk, on 30 November 2020 during a BPF event on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u67	Madam Minister, I hope you will forgive me, but this may not be my last question on the subject. If important developments are taking place abroad, I think it is important to bring them to Parliament's attention. It shouldn't always be about stuck container ships. It's an important subject, and I'm sure that tax shift will be there. Whether it comes into our country or at European level, we will still have to wait and see. That tax shift is necessary, but its form must ensure that it is part of a social transition. Now that my party is in the government and is therefore at the table, I think it is important to debate and inform each other. I thank you for the answer and I will see you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u68	Minister, the report of the Joint Research Centre (JRC) of the European Commission, which has 387 pages, seems to have been revealed earlier than expected. The Technical Expert Group on Sustainable Financing, which had been mandated to advise the Commission on the technical selection criteria for climate change mitigation and adaptation objectives, had not provided a conclusive recommendation on nuclear energy and had indicated that a more in-depth assessment of nuclear energy aspects related to the absence of significant damage was needed. As a scientific and internal knowledge service of the Commission, with extensive technical expertise in the fields of energy and nuclear technology, the JRC was invited to carry out this analysis and to draw up a technical evaluation report on the Do No significant harm (DNSH) aspects of nuclear energy, including aspects related to the long-term management of high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, in accordance with the specifications of Articles 17 and 19 of the Convention, a subject of great importance in the framework of our legislature. This report is an account of the work of the Research Group's Commission. As Minister of Sustainable Development, have you learned about this and what lessons have you learned for Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u69	Madam President, I just wanted to point out for Mrs Marghem's next answer that I had attached her question to the previous one. I look forward to the next question because the answer I have just given to colleagues on the subject of taxation had been the subject of a joint response. We'll be back later, if you don't mind. Mrs Marghem, as you point out, the voluminous report of the technical assessment of nuclear energy with respect to the do no significant harm criteria of regulation came out earlier than expected. It is not even on the website of the Joint Research Centre of the European Commission, but on the website of Politico for the last few days. Unfortunately, I have not yet had the opportunity to read it carefully or to discuss it with my colleague in charge of the matter, Mrs Tinne Van der Straeten, in order to be able to provide you with precise and satisfactory answers, even if I suspect that this answer will not be so either. I shall continue reading the report so that I can come back with specific answers on the occasion of a next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u70	Minister, the report is quite recent. So I can understand, since it has nearly 400 pages, that you haven't had time to go through it yet. For my part, I have consulted some of the elements. Of course, I am not going to touch on the substance of this issue until you have gone through it. Just tell me when I can come back to you, reasonably, so I can discuss it in more detail. I think there are fundamental lessons to be learned for our country. If you had a time-limit to communicate to me, even outside of our committee discussion, then I could schedule my next question based on that time-limit so that we can deal with the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u71	All right. I do propose that I return to you outside this framework. I must also have an opportunity to discuss this with Mrs Van der Straeten. But I come back to you very quickly to give you a more precise timetable, so that you can have accurate answers. Thank you for your flexibility, Mrs Marghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u72	Minister, since my second question seems to have received a partial answer, I will not read it in full. I will simply return to pages 52, 60 and 61 of the government agreement on green and sustainable taxation. These include tax reform, investment and investment strategies, decarbonised mobility and more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly taxation. In the urgent time, I have to ask you this question. Where have you been, since you took office, in the practical development of this essential policy? What structural contacts have you established with your federal colleagues and regional ministers? What are the working groups set up and what is their own task? What are you looking at?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u73	Mrs Marghem, while referring to my previous answer, I will add some information. You are aware that the reform of our tax system towards another more environmentally friendly is part of a more general reform of the Minister of Finance, as the government agreement wants. So he's the one who's manoeuvring. For my part, I feed it from my skills. I can't tell you more about the agenda. I therefore invite you to ask my colleague Van Peteghem. In any case, we are working very constructively and positively on reflections on the taxation of company cars. I can't tell you any more. My administration and my office feed into the work set out in Minister Van Peteghem's calendar. Anyway, you can find more details in my previous answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u74	Madam Minister, I will therefore read it. In view of my role as a parliamentarian responsible for the wise and reasoned control of the government's actions, my concern is whether working groups have been set up and what are their precise composition and task. Of course, I am aware that they cannot yet complete their mission. Basically, except for company cars, I don't see anything specific in your answer. I'm a little disappointed. I would have liked you to pin down precisely the number of working groups and what they are working on, even if it is your Finance colleague who is in some way picking them up. In addition, you are certainly aware of the types of data you provide to feed it into this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u75	Mrs Marghem, different construction sites are on the table. There is the issue of carbon pricing. There is no working group as such. Without going into the details of the negotiations, as long as the framework for the overall reform and the work on the revision and transformation of our taxation is not established, I am now content to feed my colleague Van Peteghem into a framework that he organises himself. I understand that this answer is not satisfactory, but you are aware of the conditions for discussion of tax matters in our majority. I will respect the framework as imposed by my colleague in Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic426x.u76	Madam Minister, I will ask your colleague from Finance.
