ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u1	In response to the question concerning the harmonization of hospital staff scales between the private and public sectors, I can confirm that the social agreement concluded on 25 October 2017 with the organisations representing employers and workers in the private and public sectors provides for the introduction and funding of the classification of functions (IFIC) for all personnel in the federal health sector. Given the current differences between public and private sector staff, it was indeed agreed to introduce IFIC in the public sector. As a first step, it is necessary to carry out a salary study and to examine whether and to what extent what has been agreed in Joint Committee 330 can be applied to public sector institutions. With regard to hospitals, it was agreed with the social partners that funding for the implementation of IFIC for both private and public hospitals would be provided through the budget of financial resources. For the first year, however, assistance was provided to the Maribel Social Fund for the public sector pending the conclusion of a sectoral agreement. This funding was settled by the adaptation of the Royal Decree of 8 May 2018, by which an amount of EUR 11 million was paid for 2018 for the payment of a single premium of EUR 236, an amount of EUR 6.9 million for the creation of a stamp to be used if it were to appear that the financing allocated to IFIC is insufficient, and an amount of EUR 175 000 for a salary study within a selection of public hospitals. For 2019, as agreed, an amount of €32,132,000 has been provided for in the 2020 budget for public hospitals and attached to the budget of financial resources. For other federal sectors, such as home care services and medical homes, a budget of €170,000 was foreseen in 2020. In the absence of a sectoral agreement for the public sector, and given that these resources cannot be allocated within the framework of the financial resources budget, on 19 October 2020 the General Council decided to include the amount of EUR 32 132 000 in the administrative costs of INAMI so that these resources, like the 2018 intervention, could be transferred in part to the Maribel Social Fund in the public sector and in part to the Sectoral Pension Fund in favour of contractual agents of public institutions. A draft royal decree provides for the payment of €28,250,000 to the Maribel Social Fund. The difference of €4,382,000 will be paid in the second pension pillar, which requires an adaptation of the programme law of 20 July 2006. In summary, the Public Sector Social Maribel Fund will allocate its resources as follows: EUR 16 million for the granting of a single premium of EUR 236 gross for each active employee as of 1 January 2020; EUR 6.9 million added to the IFIC buffer; EUR 5 million distributed among employers in support of human resources services; EUR 350 000, which, at the request of trade union organisations, will be allocated to trade unions or employers' representative organisations in the form of an intervention of EUR 70 000 for the remuneration of an expert in support of members. This draft royal decree was recently submitted to the agreement of the Secretary of State for the Budget before being proposed to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u2	Minister, these are obviously solutions pending an agreement. But at least it's moving the status a little further. Thank you for your answer. I hope that, in the future, this agreement will be able to take place in such a way as to equalise public and private personnel, which would be in the interests of all and avoid unnecessary competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u3	Minister, with the regularity of the clock, the disciplinary mechanisms in health care come into the media. Following the case of Kaat Bollen, Marc Cosyns and Koen Verhofstadt crawled into their pen. They call for a formidable reform of these disciplinary mechanisms. They propose to set up a High Council for Deontology for the health professions, which will include representatives of all sections of society. Such a board should be able to pronounce independent and interdisciplinary disciplinary law, preventative and mediation with respect for and participation of each patient and public and transparent work. Following a motion for a resolution, there was a hearing here and then the issue was also raised. Herman Nys, not unknown to you, has been advocating the abolition of existing disciplinary orders for a number of years. In their open letter Cosyns and Verhofstadt also address you, Minister. That's why I wanted to hear your vision. What is this view of the function and usefulness of the Disciplinary Boards for healthcare professionals? Do you agree with the arguments put forward by Cosyns, Verhofstadt and Nys for a thorough reform of disciplinary mechanisms? Can we expect you to step into this legislature? What initiatives may be in the pipeline, even after the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u4	Mrs Creemers, indeed, the functioning of the existing orders is no longer in line with current standards and could be greatly improved, particularly in the areas of transparency, openness of procedures and the role of the prosecutor in the proceedings, which should be increased. It should be noted that a number of laws have already been introduced to address issues previously falling within the competence of the deontological bodies. The rights of patients, the end of life, advertising and practices of the liberal professions and the quality of health care practice are now regulated by law. Moreover, only a small proportion of healthcare professionals are subject to sanctions by a deontological body, as only doctors and pharmacists have an order. Dentists, nurses, physiotherapists, midwife and others are not subject to such control. In my opinion, apart from the existing bodies, such as the Federal Committee on the Rights of the Patient and the Federal Committee on the Monitoring of Practice in Health, there is still a need for a deontological body for healthcare professionals, for example, for ethical issues or questions of professional behaviour. There are several configurations possible to organize that. However, reform or abolition of the order is not part of the coalition agreement. She's not a priority for me right now, especially in the current period of intense struggle against the covid pandemic. I should rather like to concentrate on monitoring the quality of the practice in health care, of which the subject matter is part.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, I understand your last point, that the reform is not a priority at the moment, and I have already referred to it in my question. I have also noted that the point is not in the coalition agreement. That does not alter the fact that, when the calm comes, we can exchange views on the matter and invite a number of people. Indeed, many issues on which a disciplinary mechanism could rule are already regulated by law and there are not disciplinary orders for all health providers. So there may be some work to be done. Once again, I fully understand that there are other priorities now. We would like to come very quickly, hopefully, which would mean that we could finally focus our attention on other matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u6	Mr President, Minister, the government agreement ratified last October provides that Emergency Medical Assistance (EMA) is reformed and that "the patient, in accordance with the risks associated with his or her state of health, is transported urgently to the most appropriate hospital, and more necessarily to the nearest hospital". In the province of Liège, thanks to Dr Luc Maquoi, we have had an exceptional tool for almost 35 years, which saves many lives every year: the Heliported Medical Centre (CMH) in Bra-sur-Lienne. If Mr. Maquoi has tragically left us, his work continues fortunately thanks to the motivation of a whole staff and the support of many fellow citizens. But that's where the bastard hurts. This public utility service is almost exclusively funded by donations and contributions from the members of the ASBL. Yet located in the heart of a red zone, at the crossroads of the provinces of Liège, Namur and Luxembourg, the Bra-sur-Lienne helicopter is an indispensable tool for public health. It is the only heliported medical service in Belgium, which can take place 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, thus meeting the vision of the AMU. Mr Minister, you will agree that urgent medical aid cannot depend on the goodwill of our fellow citizens and on their kind and supportive support. To the extent that the HMC is an essential link in the AMU of the southern provinces, how can it be integrated into the reform of the AMU? What possible and additional funding could be considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u7	Mr President, the history of the SMUR helicopters is unique. In 1998, the National Emergency Medical Council gave a negative opinion on the question as to whether it was desirable to integrate helicopters into the framework of Emergency Medical Assistance (EMA). The National Council had insisted that a rigorous analysis be carried out of several elements, including the reduction in response time and the number of potentially effective missions to be carried out. In response to this opinion, two hospitals were assigned a mission in 2003 to investigate the feasibility of helicopter integration into the AMU. Since then, the two hospitals have received 60,000 euros each year to carry out this mission. Will include who can, both hospitals have already started helicopter operations in 2003. In 2010, the National Council analysed the results of these two pilot projects and concluded that time savings were of marginal importance at the national level but could be relevant in certain areas or circumstances. However, the economic and health benefits of an EMS (Emergency medical services) service could not be proven in an irrefutable way from a methodological point of view. In 2018-2019, the National Council re-examined the EMS chapter and reached the following conclusion, in particular in its memorandum to the government: "Despite its very high cost, an EMS service may have added value in certain specific areas in order to reduce intervention time or to quickly provide specialized assistance to the patient or to quickly bring the patient to adequate care over long distances." In addition, the deployment of an EMS should be seen rather as an inter-hospital mode of transport and, exceptionally, as a means of primary intervention. For example, an EMS was also deployed during the covid crisis. With these last conclusions of the National Council, I have asked my administration to better objective the whole as part of an academic approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u8	Minister, I admit this is a good start, but it's just a start. As you say, there have been studies on the issue of analyses for years and today I am very positive about taking specific areas into account. You stress the fact that we are not all as well and as well distributed for easy access to hospitals and that we do not have the same facilities. Therefore, in this case, there is no doubt as to the necessity of the helicopter's intervention, in particular to save time and lives. I hear an exercise is underway today. I ask you to speed it up because, behind it, there is the interest of the patient, public health and recognition of the remarkable work that this team has been doing since 1986. Minister, I hope that you will move this matter forward and I will not fail to return to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u9	Minister, a few days ago, I asked you about the practice of dry-needling by non-doctors, especially by physiotherapists. In this exchange, you confirmed to me that this practice was prohibited since no legal framework existed in Belgium. In addition, the Federal Council for Kinesitherapy confirmed that this practice could not be exercised by Belgian physiotherapists. Unfortunately, the situation remains nebulous. As the UGent pointed out, physiotherapists can take the training of dry needling and some have even contracted professional insurance for this practice which is not allowed to them. As soon as 15 days ago, I was still receiving an invitation to take part in a training course on dry needing organized by the Academy of Osteopathy in Antwerp. That raises the question. Minister, in these circumstances, do you not think that clarification of this practice is necessary? Should there not be a strong legal basis for practice in order to protect patients? They are not necessarily informed of the legal or non-legal nature of this practice and of the persons entitled to do so. Are you considering initiating this work? Shouldn't clear information be given to physiotherapists to make them aware of the ban? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u10	Mr President, from a legal point of view, the dry-needling exercise is considered to be similar to the acupuncture exercise, which is still reserved for doctors at present. The last opinion on this subject, which had been sent to the Minister of Public Health, referred to a lack of evidence, superiority or inferiority compared to other conventional kinesitherapy techniques and a lack of comparison with conventional kinesitherapy. The state of research is constantly evolving in many fields, and while researchers at the University of Ghent are now positioning themselves on the effectiveness of the dry-needling method in kinesitherapy, I invite them to share this with their colleagues at the Federal Council for Kinesitherapy. The Council, composed of representatives of education and representatives of professional associations, is the advisory body which gives advice to the Minister who has public health in his responsibilities on all matters relating to physiotherapy. The Council may also give the Government of the Communities, at their request, advice in all matters relating to the studies and training of physiotherapists. If the scientific situation of dry needling has changed since 2017 and the physiotherapists wish to be allowed to practice it, the Federal Council will be able to notify us and we will then be able to consider amendments to the legislation. However, in my view, consensus should first take place within the profession, because I believe that the scientific work of gathering evidence must be done prior to a possible regularization of practice in order to ensure the quality of patient care.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u11	Thank you, Minister. The most worrying in the current situation, in my view, is the existence of practices whose quality is not proven and which are still exercised by certain health professionals. It's a fact. These professionals know they can't do it, and I really regret it because it hurts patients. There are real risks. We must really do everything we can to prevent unrecognized and unlegal practices from taking place in our country. I am really worried about these situations and I hope that at some point a firm and clear signal will be given to physiotherapists, with sanctions if necessary if they practice an art that they cannot practice. In my opinion, you really have to tell them to stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I asked you a few weeks ago about the cochlear implants. Around 455,000 people in Belgium use hearing aids. Often these are young patients. However, the reimbursement is not yet fully in order. Mr President, what measures do you intend to take in the short term for the reimbursement of classical hearing aids? The cochlear implants are refunded when there is deafness on one side, but not when one is deaf on both ears. Are there plans for that? After all, we must be aware that these are often young people who have a whole life and career ahead of them. They must bear the heavy costs of these hearing aids themselves today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u13	Mr President, Mrs Depoorter, we did not celebrate World Hearday on 3 March. This year, the World Health Organization published its first World Report on Hearing. The aim was to give more attention to prevention, screening, treatment and guidance of persons with hearing loss. If we look at Belgian statistics, there are very many people who do not hear well, about a million. For people with severely untreated hearing loss, the risk of dementia, based on data, is five times higher. Hearing ill also leads to social isolation and can lead to mental health problems. Depressions are also more common. So there are a lot of arguments to think carefully about the problem of hearing impaired people. Mrs Depoorter, I am going to give you a general answer. That may be a bit frustrating at this stage but it is the fairest answer. I have agreed with RIZIV and the healthcare actors that they will develop a multi-annual vision on the use of the multiannual budget, based on priority health care objectives. In this context, of course, we are also considering how to achieve efficiency gains in the large budget for health care. These efficiency gains can then be used to better respond to needs that have not yet been adequately addressed. First of all, I will let the actors speak, but it seems logical to me that the question you are asking should be taken into account as one of the priority objectives. If we do that, then we must draw practical conclusions from it. So I would like to take a moment, until we are a little further advanced with the health care objectives, to give your question a correct place in that whole. However, I am certainly sensitive to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u14	Minister, it is indeed logical to include this in the priority objectives. These are young people who are healthy and can contribute to society. There are scientific studies. It is about costs that are paid back in the long term, because those people can re-participate in society and contribute again. Thank you for taking it with you. I have another question about your multiannual budget. I look forward to your answer to that. It is indeed very important that we also look at health care over several years and define these objectives well. I'm definitely a partner in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u15	Mr President, I would like to refer to the question put in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u16	(...) for inclusion in the convention was indeed discussed in September 2020 by the College of Doctors-Directors with the help of the College of Reproductive Medicine. That meeting then concluded that there are several situations in which it may be interesting to intervene through the agreement in order to repay the maintenance of fertility. The case you describe is one of the situations discussed, in addition to the cases where patients receive chemotherapy, concomitantly with the removal of gametes, for patients with ovarian endometriosis affecting fertility, for patients with low AMH levels, thus reducing the gamete reserve and finally in the case of orchidectomy in patients with only one testicular. The College of Doctors-Directors is currently working on a proposal for adaptation and will also take its financial impact into account in its estimate of the need for the budget 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u17	That is good news, Minister, and I hope that the proposal can be knocked off in this way. It can make a very big difference for those involved, not least because it is quite expensive when they have to pay for it themselves. For such young people who are still building their future and who may also see a place for children, I think it can be a step forward from a medical point of view. Moreover, it will give peace of mind to those who have already experienced a great deal of far-reaching things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u18	Mr President, Minister, I have a question about the diagnosis of tumor pathology, which is becoming more complex, which requires more and more immunohistological tests. To date, only four tests per steel are reimbursed, but often more tests and tests are needed. At the beginning of 2019, at the request of the pathologist anatoms, a completely new and up-to-date nomenclature for Article 32 was developed. The cost picture was budgeted at 3.4 million euros. That budget was also released through a saving in clinical biology. However, the KB has still not been published, and the pathologist anatoms are forced to continue working with an inappropriate nomenclature. The approval is there, but your signature would still be missing. Why aren't we able to publish that KB yet? When do you intend to do that? In the meantime, what happened to the EUR 3.4 million budget that was released? What could this have been spent on?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u19	Mr President, Mrs Gijbels, the file on the revision of the Article 32 nomenclature was signed by the Secretary of State for the Budget after the start of the government on 1 October 2020 in the last quarter of 2020. The proposal was then sent to the Council of State, which asked further clarifying questions. This dossier is contained in a bundle of eight nomenclature proposals which achieve savings within clinical biology that are immediately reinvested in pathological anatomy. The reinvestment could only be published and implemented at the same time as the savings are realised. This bundle of savings and reinvestment will enter into force as a whole on 1 April 2021. The royal decrees have been published. The Royal Decree on Pathologic Anatomy was published on 15 March. The other royal decrees are back from the King and ready for publication, but there is still a little work to be done. A correction is still needed, but they will be published in the near future. As soon as we get the budget of EUR 3.4 million available, it will be reinvested. At present, according to Article 32 of the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind, four immune histochemical tests per steel are reimbursed, which according to the experts is sufficient for most oncological indications. The revision of the nomenclature, which will enter into force on 1 April, will increase this number for some specific indications. The nomenclature already allows immune histochemical studies to be applied when prescribing tumour-specific medication to oncology patients. This part will also be modified during the review, read: extended. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this dossier is innovative and groundbreaking and that the RIZIV Technical and Medical Council itself has proposed savings. These savings are now being realised in the field of clinical biology and the resources released are being transferred to another discipline, namely pathological anatomy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I think this is good news, not only for the caregivers, but also for the patients. These precise diagnostics, with increasing possibilities, are essential for a tailor-made approach. This gives the patient a better prognosis, but also side effects can be limited. It is good that this is being done and that these new technologies are being given room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u21	Mr President, Minister, in 2013, Mr Flor Van Noppen, then MP for the N-VA, tabled a motion for a resolution asking for more attention and research on multiple system atrophy. He himself was also affected by that disease and he died of it a little later. He asked the government a number of questions in his resolution. Firstly, he asked for resources to be made available for research into the cause, development and treatment of MSA. Secondly, he asked us to recognise 3 October as an MSA day, 3 October is already world MSA day, and to take initiatives to raise awareness of the disease. Thirdly, when examining the cause and treatment of MSA and other parkinson-plus diseases, he requested that this should be done within a multidisciplinary framework. This resolution was adopted on a wide-ranging basis. I know, it is a resolution from a previous legislature, but since it is a disease which still has a prevalence of 5 cases per 100,000 inhabitants and which is still very little known, I think it is important to continue to pay attention to this. More awareness and a timely and correct diagnosis can ensure that patients are monitored as closely as possible and that best efforts are made to maintain quality of life. I would therefore like to ask you whether you are planning initiatives on MSA and related diseases, and which are these.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Gijbels, I apologize, perhaps I should have told you immediately, this is a really sensitive and important issue and I am also thinking of Mr Flor Van Noppen, but I have not been prepared for an answer. My administration failed to do so. I'm really embarrassed, but I can't answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u23	I will ask the question again next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u24	The question is therefore postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u25	Mr Minister, sign encephalitis or TBE and Lyme disease are caused by a virus and a bacteria, respectively, which are transmitted by a tick bite. The tick bites cause serious side effects, which we still have to take into account. Against TBE there is a vaccine on the market. A vaccine is developed against Lyme disease. FSME, the vaccine against TBE, is available, but it will not be refunded in our country. Minister, how many diagnoses of TBE and Lyme disease have been diagnosed in our country over the last three years? How many long-term complications have been identified in recent years? To what extent do you consider it appropriate to initiate a pharmacodynamic analysis for the refund of the vaccine FSME for TBE and the developing vaccine against Lyme disease? Will you take steps to do this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u26	(...) number of diagnoses. The latest available data store on 2017, 2018 and 2019. Data for 2020 are not yet available. The number of cases of erythema migrans, the most common manifestation of lymeborreliosis, was estimated at 10,020, 10.273 and 6.344 respectively in 2017, 2018 and 2019. That was based on data from the network of general practitioners' level practices. In total, the number of Lyme cases is estimated at about 11,000 per year. There are annual variations in the number, including due to the climate. In the period 2017-2019 there was a lower number than the previous years, possibly due to a less favourable climate for ticks, especially long, dry periods in summer. For TBE, there are only a few cases per year, mostly imported from abroad. In 2017, 2018 and 2019 there were 3, 3 and 4, respectively, with two persons likely to be infected in Belgium for the first time in 2018. A study of the presence of antibodies in the blood of 195 forest workers in Flanders in 2019 showed that no person had any signs of a history of infection due to exposure to the virus. Sciensano has a study of symptoms after diagnosis and treatment for Lyme disease. The results will be analysed and published in the course of 2021. No separate clinical data are available for TBE, but there were no deaths. Sciensano has conducted a study on the costs related to Lyme disease in Belgium. The results will be analysed and published in the course of 2021. If a vaccine were to be placed on the market, these data could be used for a pharmacodynamic evaluation. But at the moment, no vaccine is available. The High Health Council published an opinion on vaccination against TBE in February 2019. The decision is that in the current epidemiological situation, sporadic human indigenous cases at irregular intervals or only in a few locations, geographically distributed, a general vaccination is not recommended for the general population and for professional or recreational risk groups, but for travellers engaged in outdoor activities in forested areas of endemic regions and for people handling TBE in a laboratory environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u27	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, we sell the vaccine FSME in the pharmacy mainly to people who travel to areas where signs with the flavivirus are present. I think it is more important to await the results of the Sciensano study on the possible reimbursement of the vaccine, which is coming anyway. In any case, Lyme's disease can drag on for a long time and also bring quite a lot of costs. We shall certainly come back to the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u28	Mr President, Minister, the last year has seen a sharp increase in the sale of sleeping drugs. The sleepers available without prescription certainly do not fall within your competence, but still increase by as much as 11% in December. With the sleeping drugs available with prescription we see an increase of about 7% in the past year. I am concerned about this because, of course, these medicines are made on the basis of benzodiazepines. We have to be careful about that, given their addictive effect. This is a disturbing evolution, isn't it? What exactly is your view on the increasing sale of sleeping drugs? What actions will you take to inform and raise awareness of the use and dangers of sleeping drugs, especially those subject to regulation? How will you sensitise doctors about how they currently prescribe those medicines? Will you also create a framework to encourage doctors to be more careful when prescribing sedatives based on benzodiazepines?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u29	Mr President, Mrs Farih, the consumption of sedatives in Belgium is indeed one of the highest in Europe. It is important that we distinguish between sleeping drugs with and without prescription. Sleeping agents required by a doctor's prescription belong to the benzodiazepine family, whereas the other sleeping agents do not. The use of benzodiazepines, often for years, is problematic. Tolerance and addiction occur after a few weeks. Therefore, this does not happen with sleeping agents that are not benzodiazepines and do not require a doctor's prescription. According to Febelco, the sharp increase in consumption of those products without a prescription observed between December 2019 and December 2020 is 41%. That is an important signal that we must not ignore. It reflects the problems facing our people in the health crisis that affects us all. This sharp increase is very likely to be a temporary phenomenon and should be significantly reduced when the lives of our fellow citizens return to normal. The very high use of benzodiazepines in our country deserves our full attention, because there is clear evidence that the long-term use of these medicines has a negative impact on public health and leads to high expenditure in health insurance, including from accidents and road accidents. Compared to 2019, a much more modest increase in deliveries by 3.4 % was observed for those medicines in 2020, while a decrease of 9% was observed between 2016 and 2019. In 2018, with the help of the expert platform BelPEP, Belgian Psychotropics Expert Platform of the FPS Public Health, the previous government launched a communication campaign to focus the attention of doctors, pharmacists and patients on the problem of inadequate use of benzodiazepines. A communication plan for psychopharmaceuticals was also developed for the period 2021-2023. The target groups are general practitioners, pharmacists and psychologists. This plan also pays a lot of attention to supporting the professional through close cooperation with the many parties involved. The approach of the communication plan is to promote cooperation and consultation with, and in function of, the patient, with the aim of guiding the patient to the best possible form of care, with a rational and adequate use of psychopharmaceuticals. Indeed, the results of a recent survey conducted by the FAGG in 2020 show that 70% of patients are very motivated to stop using benzodiazepines, but they also state that they feel powerless and want to be supported. Today we want to help and support the patients again. In addition to a communication campaign organised in 2018, we believe that patients need guidance and that a multidisciplinary collaboration between patients, the doctor and the pharmacist is required. We are also considering launching a withdrawal programme based on the administration of Magi-ray prepared benzodiazepines. The practical modalities of such a programme should be discussed in a multidisciplinary working group. Why proceed to the use of majestic preparations? These offer the advantage that the treatment each patient will receive can be individually tailored. The treatment could therefore be personalised for the number of stages of gradual dose reduction, for the dose administered at each stage and for the duration of each phase. The treating physician is the person who knows the patient best, and he plays a central role throughout the duration of the patient's withdrawal and guidance program. This withdrawal via dose reduction has been studied in several high-quality clinical studies. Depending on the patient's consumption pattern, this therapeutic approach has a success rate of between 40% and 70%. In short, we want to help and support patients by pursuing a global guidance strategy, without distinguishing between provinces, regions or communities. In order to set up this programme, I asked my administration to set up a multidisciplinary working group. It should explore and formulate proposals for the creation of a guidance programme for each patient who is motivated to stop using sleeping drugs that he cannot get rid of. That working group could be operational in the coming months. The continuation of the reimbursement of first-line psychological care also contributes to this problem. Patients in whom the use of sleep and sedatives is likely to become problematic can rely on this low-threshold care offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I have heard very good elements in that. The withdrawal programme is certainly important to ensure that we can prescribe more personally, but also to provide for a phasing-out for all those who would like to get rid of these benzodiazepines. However, I do wonder whether we should not work with these people from the start of the medication. We know that benzo drugs are sold in large packages today. There are sometimes up to 70 capsules and there is little social and medical monitoring of the doctor and from the patient's environment on the amounts used and during what period of time. So I am certainly enthusiastic about the withdrawal programme that you have mentioned, but I am very much in favour of tackling it from the first moments when a patient is prescribed heavier medication. I will certainly come back to that. But thank you very much for the work you are doing at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u31	Mr. Minister, according to the website, the composition of the Office of the Supreme Health Council was last modified in 2015. The term of office of the Chairperson and the Vice-Presidents was then extended for 3 years, until 2018. In 2014, 300 experts were appointed for 6 years. Is that information still correct or is the information on the website outdated? In the meantime, were mandates renewed or not renewed? If so, how come? It seems that the renewal of the agency has been lagging behind for some time after all. When will the agency be renewed? Is it true that no new procedure was launched in 2020 to appoint experts? When will the procedure be launched to appoint new experts?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u32	Mrs Gijbels, it is true that the mandates of the appointed experts of the High Health Council have been completed since 16 April 2020. Those were six-year mandates that started on 17 April 2014. The mandates of the members of the College and the Bureau also expired on 4 February 2019 and 7 September 2018 respectively. The innovations were not launched, as no experts had to be appointed by decision in 2018, as part of the merger with Sciensano. After that, there was no government with full authority and then the covid pandemic came, which of course was a priority in relation to the innovations of the mandates of experts. In October 2020, despite the continuing uncertainties, including the availability of potential experts through their involvement in the crisis, the Board decided not to wait any longer and to initiate the procedures for renewing mandates. Since the members of the Bureau are elected from among the members of the College, who are themselves elected from among the appointed experts, the procedures will be gradual, first for the appointed experts, then for the College and finally for the Bureau. The first of those procedures started with a public call for applications launched on 16 January 2021. The applications were open until 16 March 2021. It will then evaluate the candidates and examine them by the deontological committee, with the aim of submitting a proposal to the Minister for 300 experts to be appointed in the coming summer. Once the new experts have been appointed, the procedure for the renewal of the college will be launched. We hope to have renewed all mandates by the end of 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u33	In fact, I did not know that this has been set in motion by now. So that's good. It remains important that the procedures laid down are followed and that no precedents are created for other bodies either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u34	Minister, we know that the coronavirus pandemic has had a significant impact on treatment monitoring, consultation and diagnosis. Unfortunately, the children were not spared either. For example, the pandemic may have had a significant impact on paediatric cancers. Have some pediatric cancers escaped diagnosis during the management of the health crisis? Have some patients had to give up their current treatment? Our hospitals have often managed to adapt to the pandemic, for example by developing new procedures for services deemed essential. Has this been the case for paediatric oncology as well? What about cancer follow-up figures in general? Has the pandemic had an impact and what concrete solutions have been found, in particular to reconnect with patients who have discontinued their treatment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u35	Mr Rigot, as far as the figures are concerned, in 2020 we observed the same overall number of diagnoses as in previous years and no diagnosis was delayed due to the impossibility of performing diagnostic procedures. A few cases of covid-19 during the first and second waves, most of which have no significant impact on the patient's treatment. Thanks to accelerated delivery of data by laboratories, the Cancer Registry Foundation made an initial estimate over the period from January to April 2020. This estimate showed, for children aged 0-19, that the number of cancer diagnoses had decreased by 12% in April 2020 compared to the previous year. A second assessment covering the period up to mid-September was then carried out, showing that a catch-up dynamic had been in place from June onwards. Thus, in mid-September, the number of diagnoses among children and adolescents up to 19 years of age was comparable to that of the previous year. The Belgian Society of Paediatric Haematology Oncology (BSPHO) reports some covid-19 cases during the first and second waves, most of which have no significant impact on their treatment. A very small number had a serious development and most had no impact on treatment outcomes. All of the hospitals that responded reported that the diagnostic work and active treatment of patients had never been altered. We had the same overall number of diagnoses in 2020 compared to previous years. No diagnosis was delayed due to the impossibility of performing diagnostic procedures. Treatments and patient outcomes remained unchanged. Some hospitals experienced a period with very few new diagnoses in the spring, with a catch-up in the following months. We had a limited number of late presentations due to patient avoidance from coming to the hospital. The exact number is not known. Especially at the beginning, the centres had to reorganize their patient flow to the hospital. They have set up limited visitation rules for the number of people accompanying the clinic, with an impact on psychosocial well-being, particularly during long hospitalizations and on discussions on new diagnoses and treatments. Some hospitals were encouraged to participate in video consultations, which were highly appreciated by doctors and patients. During the first period of confinement, some parents were afraid to come to the hospital. Follow-up was maintained by telephone and video consultation. It is still quite difficult to organize a stem cell transplant in case the donor lives abroad, for example in the United States. There were delays in harvesting and shipping stem cells from these donors due to the covid-19 situation. We can usually work around them to avoid impact for the patient but this requires a lot of organizational work. Some clinical trials have been on hold at the sponsor level and not locally, which has affected treatment opportunities in some clinical trials. Surgery is usually not or not much delayed but requires more organization and persistence due to limited operating slots.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am relieved to see the ability of medical teams to respond, who have been able to remain attentive to the medical needs of patients and who have been able to reinvent themselves to be attentive to the mental health aspect and its consequences on the morale of patients and parents in these complex situations. Care must be taken to meet the somatic needs of these children, as well as those who are now victims of cancer, and certainly, as a vulnerable public, to protect them from the risks of covid through vaccination which could be given to them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u37	Mr President, Minister, the Quality Act of 22 April 2019 provides for the equalisation of reimbursement between conventional and non-conventional care providers. For patients visiting a non-conventional kinesitherapist, the reimbursement rate is currently 25% lower than for patients visiting a conventional kinesitherapist. There is no such distinction between doctors and dentists. Now, almost two years after the quality law, the elimination of the difference in reimbursement is still dead letter. According to Article 87 of the Quality Act, the date of entry into force of Articles 85 and 86 must be determined by the King after consultation with the Council of Ministers. Were those articles discussed at the Council of Ministers? If not, when are you planning this meeting? What is your attitude towards the elimination of inequalities in reimbursement rates according to whether health care providers are engaged or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u38	Mr President, Mrs Gijbels, the relevance of this 25% rule is being examined in the context of a task force set up by the RIZIV, which includes representatives of insurance institutions, professional organisations of health care professionals and my policy cell. Other relevant experts and patient umbrella representatives will also be involved. That study should take into account the necessary protection and protection of access for patients. Alternatives to the promotion of the provision of health care providers should be identified. The task force aims to prepare the setting of priority health care objectives for the period 2022-2024 as well as the approach to efficient care and the establishment of a multi-annual budgetary path in healthcare. For this purpose, a concrete roadmap has been developed and agreed within the Insurance Committee, with a view to submitting concrete proposals to the Insurance Committee and the General Board, as far as possible by 30 June 2021. Given the significant impact of the possible abolition of this rule on patients, caregivers and compulsory health insurance, I consider it appropriate to examine this issue thoroughly before taking a decision and submit the dossier to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u39	Minister, your answer does not sound very encouraging. After all, you say that the relevance is still being examined and that you will check whether the 25% rule is effectively abolished. I thought that the decision had already been taken and that it only had to be implemented. The physicists are wondering why they are discriminated against against other care providers. In the end, it is the patients who pay for this, as they have to pay twice extra. This puts the kinesis in a somewhat unfair position with regard to the national agreements that are being concluded. I therefore urge that the alignment process be speeded up. I will certainly come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u40	Mrs. Van Camp, I'll give you some figures first. According to the Health Survey, the Belgian population aged 18 and over has 20% of classical smokers, i.e. tobacco smokers. Of these is 16 % daily smoker and 4 % occasional smoker. In the group of young people aged 18 to 24, 14% smoke daily. Furthermore, 4.2% use e-cigarettes, of which 1.5% use e-cigarettes on a daily basis and 2.7 % use e-cigarettes on an occasional basis. In the group of e-cigarette users, 11% had never smoked tobacco, while three quarters still smoke tobacco in combination with the e-cigarette. Among young people aged 18-24, 7% use e-cigarettes, of which 1% use cigarettes on a daily basis. Figures relating to the consumption of electronic cigarettes have not been available since the start of the epidemic, but data on tobacco consumption could be collected during that period through the COVID-19 health surveys carried out by Sciensano. The results of the 5th survey of this type were published in December. This shows, among other things, that between April and December the proportion of smokers rose from 21.8 % to 23 %. Of those 23 percent smokers, 39 percent say they smoke more than before the crisis, while 20% say they have reduced tobacco consumption. However, between 18 and 24 years of age, this ratio is reversed as 37% claims to smoke more than before the crisis, while 42% claims to have reduced tobacco consumption. In addition to Sciensano's dates, excise revenue from tobacco also gives some indications. These data show a decrease of 8% in excise revenue from cigarettes and 3.45 % from rolling tobacco between 2019 and 2020. 2020 was a very special year for the Belgian population as a whole. It is therefore difficult to say now what the final conclusions are with regard to consumption behaviour in relation to tobacco. We remain a little cautious and follow the consumption dates, but the goal is the same, namely a smoke-free generation. You're also quoting other figures. The sector in the article to which you refer may communicate on the basis of its own sales figures, but we do not have it at our disposal. The coalition agreement states: "A comprehensive and powerful anti-tobacco policy is essential. The aim is to create a smoke-free generation by making smoking increasingly less attractive and accessible." My general policy paper, which I presented to the Chamber in November, sets out my objective: "The policy on the use of psychoactive drugs, such as tobacco, alcohol, illicit drugs and psychoactive drugs will be coordinated as far as possible by the General Cell Drugs Policy and the Thematic Meeting Drugs of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health. A long-term national strategy will be prepared to set clear targets for reducing tobacco prevalence among young people and the general population." My services are currently preparing that national strategy. The tobacco issue is on the agenda of the General Cell Drugs Policy (ACD).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u41	Minister, I am very pleased that you are working on a strategy after all. You said in the discussion of the policy paper that you did not consider the plan to be possible in the immediate future. I see that you started today, and I am pleased with that. We can indeed do more. The figures you have given show clearly what you mean, and I hope that you will work with them in your plan and that there is a gap in that respect. You mentioned sporadic surveys, for example, but then there could be no ad hoc adjustments, and in this period of corona it would really be useful to have such figures. You pointed out that the figures for excise duties would show a decrease, but those figures are a year behind. Moreover, according to Sciensano's figures, which we happen to have at our disposal, there is evidence of an increase in the use of tobacco. The figures for the consumption of the e-cigarette are not available to the public at all. It is weird that the sector does have access to this. Our group has often pointed it out, a good policy is driven by figures. I hope that you will take this point into account in the national strategy. Our group will certainly also take measures and initiatives to support policies in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u42	Mr President, Minister, I have just referred to it. On 1 March 2020, the RIZIV announced that a dynamic multi-annual budgetary framework would be put in place with a focus on improving the efficiency of care and the implementation of health objectives. To this end, two task forces will be set up: one for the efficiency of care and one for the preparation of the multiannual framework. I would have liked to have heard from you how much resources are provided for this. How much budget? Who will be part of this task force? Is it internal staff or will you use external experts to do so? Who will define the priority health objectives? Based on what data will that happen? Will you involve the regions? That's very important to our party. Indeed, all of these powers are still in the hands of the regions. In the coalition agreement, I read in the policy paper of institutional reforms that a representation in the RIZIV would be provided for the regions. Is that included in the multiannual plan? Will the representative also have the right to vote? Will he have a right to make a decision? Do you confirm that this is an efficiency exercise where there are possible shifts? Was an audit carried out prior to this exercise? Does this exercise fit in the context of the spending review provided by State Secretary De Bleeker in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u43	Mr President, first of all I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the structure set up by the Insurance Committee. A steering committee has been set up to coordinate the work of this project and to provide the reporting to the Insurance Committee of the RIZIV. Three task forces have been set up, a Task Force on Healthcare Goals, a Task Force on Effective Care and a Task Force on Dynamic-Budgetary Multi-annual Framework. A Scientific Committee has also been set up to support the task forces in the well-founded and scientific approach to the work. A kick-off meeting was held on March 1, 2021. You will find all the information on the website of the RIZIV. Your first question was about resources. For the time being, this is borne by the operating agents of the RIZIV. The project is currently being carried out within the existing capacity of the RIZIV, both in terms of staff and financial resources. For the composition of the task force, input comes mainly from the various consultation bodies of the health insurance system. External experts are called upon to familiarise themselves with health insurance for the three task forces, the steering committee and the scientific committee. The concrete implementation of the task forces, the steering committee and the scientific committee therefore consists of a mix of scientists, officials and stakeholders, all experts in their field. Who will define the priority health objectives? We want to work in steps. First of all, the Health Care Goals Task Force is working on a methodology within the framework assigned to it. In addition, input is requested from the RIZIV Agreements and Agreements Committees. In concrete terms, therefore, both the consultative bodies and the experts have a say. The Health Care Goals Task Force reports to the Steering Committee of this project. Afterwards, the Steering Committee makes a summary of the project with the influence of the three task forces, for the benefit of the RIZIV Insurance Committee. Finally, that report is delivered to my policy cell. A literature list as well as a methodology for the governance of the project were prepared and distributed on 22 March using a manual, with a view to achieving the most efficient process possible for this complex exercise, but which I do think is particularly important. As far as the regions are concerned, I would point out that it is about achieving health objectives and not about health objectives. Health care in health insurance is an exclusive federal competence. So first of all, we focus on this. You refer to the involvement of the Länder in the RIZIV. There's no legal basis for that yet. Work is currently under way within the existing composition of the bodies. Do you confirm that this is an efficiency exercise? The objective is indeed to shape the medium-term vision of our health insurance on the basis of priority health care objectives and to help achieve them through ongoing, planned and new initiatives, including through efficiency gains achieved within the framework of increasing efficiency in care. Was an audit carried out prior to the exercise? The RIZIV shall carry out an annual audit of its expenditure. This is the so-called standardized report on the annual expenditure booked in accordance with Article 51 (4) of the GLU Act. Moreover, the RIZIV works with the other federal health administrations, especially with the KCE, on a systematic review of the Belgian healthcare system through the HSPA reports or Health System Performance Assessment reports, the latest of which dates back to 2019. For some years now, the RIZIV has also reflected on a clear and transparent future project. I refer to the document 'Bakens for the future', which was developed together with the stakeholders of medical care insurance over fifty years of RIZIV, as well as the scenario exercise and prospective future exploration, which was launched in 2018 together with the TomorrowLab of Living Tomorrow, whose results were presented to the bodies of the RIZIV in mid 2020 for further discussion. Does the exercise fit in the context of Mrs de Bleeker's spending review? The topic of effective care is one of three pilot projects, selected for the introduction of spending reviews within the federal government. It concerns a decision taken at the Council of Ministers of 16 February 2021. The aim is to identify an amount of €40 million in the National Commission on Doctors-Sickness Funds that can be used more effectively and reinvest that amount in the sector. Will you submit the multiannual framework to Parliament for discussion? The report of the Insurance Committee is delivered to me first. My intention is to give an opinion on this. As far as I am concerned, we can of course begin to include measures in the next budgetary exercise, which we will, of course, discuss in Parliament and within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. Many studies have already been carried out on efficiency gains within care, which can then generate more resources for better access to care. Depending on the experts who publish these studies, they sometimes account for 10% or 20% of the funds. So many additional resources could be made available to our patients, not to the structures. That's where we have to go. Patients and care providers should be at the heart of the project. The studies show that this can be done. You also point out that there is no legal framework for the representation of the regions within the RIZIV. I am very much looking forward to the first work of your colleagues working on institutional reforms. You know that N-VA is a party asking for a care tailored to the Fleming and the Waal. This requires further and thorough reform. In conclusion, Mr President, Minister, I would like to say that we would like to take part in the debates on the multiannual frameworks. They are very important to shape health care in the future. If you are prepared to submit this to Parliament and to take action together, we are certainly asking for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u45	Question No 55015193C by Mrs Jadin is at her request transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u46	Minister, the digital platform for healthcare professionals in the Benelux, MediQuality, carried out an international online study with general practitioners and specialists on burn-out and lifestyle in the last quarter of last year. The survey looked at the workload and feeling of exhaustion in doctors, as well as the possible consequences, depression and suicidal thoughts. The study revealed some remarkable results. Almost half of doctors work more than 50 hours a week, 21% work even more than 60 hours a week. Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, half the doctors have experienced an increased workload. 21 % experience less workload due to deferred ordinary care. That was the situation at the end of last year. As many as 88 % of respondents reported symptoms or complaints of burn-out. The main causes were administrative nuisances, laws and regulations of the government, too much work or too much information technology. Doctors themselves see as solutions less regulation, more space for patients and less for financial aspects, more feasible work schedules and more respect in the workplace. Firstly, can you respond to the doctor's distress call to reduce the administrative burden? Secondly, are you in favour of medical support programmes to prevent burn-out and stress and thus to deal with this problem, of course in consultation with the Länder?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u47	I certainly share your concern about administrative simplification. It is also explicitly included in the national medical funds agreement 2021. After all, we want doctors to be able to really concentrate on their core tasks. A special working group will be set up to make a number of concrete proposals, in cooperation with stakeholders. The aim is to limit the number of certificates without specific medical added value. I would like to say that I am in favour of medical support programs to prevent burnouts and stress. The well-being of healthcare professionals has been on our agenda for a long time and remains very important. For example, I would like to refer to the fourth objective of the Quadruple Aim, which is to ensure that healthcare professionals can perform their work in a good and sustainable way. I refer to that, because I did so this morning in a press conference to announce the initiatives of the RIZIV and the FPS on burn-out and stress support programmes. They support a number of organisations, in particular Doctors4Doctors and Doctors in Emergency, which are active around the well-being of healthcare professionals. A financial support of EUR 200,000 per year will be provided to enable the organisations concerned to roll out an action plan to support the well-being of doctors. Recent interviews with doctors, including doctors in training, show that there is a great need for information in this area, as well as for the necessary peer support, support and self-care. Work will also be carried out on a measuring instrument to periodically assess the degree of well-being of doctors. I think that is a very good initiative. It is actually a recognition of the work that has been done for a long time by Doctors4Doctors and Doctors in Need. I also think it is useful that the forces of the organisations should be brought together to spread some regional initiatives as well. In this way, they can also bring with them best practices from abroad. In this way they can give rise to further awareness, which in my opinion is also good for our policy. Finally, I would like to stress that it must not be a one-off fact; it must really be embedded in the policy. More generally, attention to burn-out and stress should really become part of the overall policy for care personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u48	Minister, I remember that you also want to pay attention to reducing the administrative burden on doctors. I look forward very much to the proposals that will be drawn up in this area. I am also pleased that you are bringing to the attention of the health care providers' support programmes. It is necessary to pay attention to the workload of doctors and specialists. This problem has undoubtedly been around for a long time, but, like other problems, it has also surfaced during the corona crisis and thus become more visible. I think it is very positive that you want to work towards a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u49	Minister, in the Netherlands homosexual men will be allowed to give blood in the future if they have a monogamous relationship. There will be a questionnaire about their sexual behavior. In our country, men are not allowed to give blood when they have had sexual relations with another man during the 12-month period. That federal law was amended in April 2017 under your predecessor, Mrs. De Block. The adjustment then met the latest scientific data to ease a number of criteria for blood donation. Before that, men who had sexual relations with men were not allowed to give tout court blood. The decision was taken after a round table organised by various interest groups and health organisations. Of course, the safety of patients receiving blood is paramount. Professor Linos Vandekerckhove of the UZ Gent also indicates this in an interview on Radio 1. Rather, he prefers a kind of middle way between two applications. He suggests looking at a period of 4 months, because the current HIV tests can pick up a diagnosis at four months. The four-month rule could be applied to any fixed relationship, regardless of sexual orientation. Since the new generation of HIV tests is already conclusive after three to four months, I wonder if it is not time to ask the High Health Council for new advice. What is your position on this matter? You know that this is sometimes perceived as very unjust. They want to help, they are monogamous, and yet they cannot. That's hard for a lot of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u50	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, the main objective of this debate is to ensure that every recipient of blood is given safe blood. Following a round table in 2016, the Supreme Health Council issued its opinion No. 9291 published. The exclusion criteria for blood donation by MSM, as laid down in the Law of 11 August 2017, should be reviewed annually. On that basis, a biennial review of those criteria can be carried out, as provided for in Article 2 (3) of the Royal Decree of 25 October 2018 on the evaluation of the temporary exclusion criteria and the associated exclusion periods of donors in relation to sexual behaviour. To this end, the latest data, such as the window period for screening tests and the evolution of the HIV epidemic in Belgium, are put into perspective. The Royal Decree also sets out the tasks to be carried out for this purpose by the blood institutions, the Directorate-General for Health of the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment, the FAGG, the High Health Council and Sciensano. Since December 2019, the Directorate-General for Health has invited the various bodies to consult each year in December. It emerged from this that the figures provided by the blood establishments and the FAGG were comparable to the previous year. The review report of December 2020 will soon be published on the website of the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment and the FAGG. The figures for these reports were published on the website of the FAGG, as well as in the annual report by Sciensano on the epidemiology of AIDS and HIV infection in Belgium, which discusses developments within certain population groups, including MSM. Some of the conclusions from these reports are as follows. In 2019, there was little evolution in the number of HIV diagnoses at MSM compared to 2018. 923 HIV diagnoses were made in 2019. Compared to 2018, we see an increase of 4% in the number of new HIV diagnoses, a break with the decrease of 28 % between 2012 and 2018. Belgium has a high and stable HIV test rate which makes the diagnosis faster and reduces the risk of infection of other individuals, yet 9% of people living with HIV have not been diagnosed. In the new donors in 2019, no seroconversion was detected in the blood samples for HIV. In the known donors, one blood sample was positive for HIV. However, there were serotypes in new donors for HBV, HCV and syphilis with the highest rates for HBV and syphilis. So far, the reports concluded that the Belgian figures do not yet allow for a scientific justification of the 12-month delay in the specific risk categories related to the prospective donor's sexual behavior. It is important to apply the precautionary principle in a proportionate manner so as not to increase the risk to recipients. As Minister of Health, I have no doubts about the value of these reports and note that there are now too few data available to amend the current twelve-month delay regulation. I was perhaps a little unclear, Mrs. Jiroflée. I would like to say that we are not yet able to draw that conclusion on the basis of the data we have. However, I believe that such a delay, which can be seen as discriminatory by prospective donors, should always be proportionate and that its duration should be as close as possible to what is clearly necessary to guarantee the recipient's right to safe blood. In order to give more prospective donors a chance to make their blood available and at the same time to ensure maximum safety, I will instruct the competent administrations, in particular the FAGG and the FPS Public Health, to study, in line with their reporting, foreign studies and data on the effects of sexual risk behaviour. In doing so, attention should certainly be paid to those countries which have adopted a less long delay period. I would like to be able to clarify this within a few months. For the new technologies in testing, a consultation will be launched for the December 2021 review. It is important to consider not only HIV, but also other communicable diseases: HBV, HCV and syphilis. In this respect, the safety margin should take account of all these factors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u51	Minister, of course, the patient's right to receive safe help is always paramount. However, I note that you also believe that the measures should always be proportionate. Maybe there'll be good news in a few months. I will therefore be free to ask this question again in May or June.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u52	Minister, the vapotous woman is now consuming more and more market shares to traditional cigarette companies and tobacco scientists are advising her as an alternative. Yet the WHO describes it as unquestionably harmful. On Thursday, March 11, Sciensano published a study on flavourings used in electronic cigarettes. A total of 129 liquids were analysed. Five substances are found to have genotoxic properties, i.e. they modify the DNA of the consumer and may be the source of tumours or cancers. Since the 2016 Royal Order, if electronic cigarette producers are required to register their product, they are not required to detail its components, which may explain the presence of harmful flavours. Sciensano therefore suggests setting up a list of prohibited ingredients in order to limit the risks associated with the use of electronic cigarettes. Mr Minister, following the study by Sciensano and as a precautionary principle, is it already envisaged to ban substances pointed with a finger because of their potential harmfulness? Are further studies expected? Is a revision of the Royal Decree of October 28, 2016 planned? And if so, how will it be revised?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u53	In the Sciensano study, 153 e-liquids were analyzed. Of these 153 e-liquids, genotoxic substances were found in 14 of them (9%). These include estragole, safrole, 2-acetylfuran, furaneol, and transhexenal. Safrole is classified as Category 2 mutagenic and Category 1B carcinogen by the International Cancer Research Centre. Estragole is recognized as genotoxic in vivo, as demonstrated in the evaluation of the European Medicines Agency. Furaneol has been evaluated by the European Food Safety Agency (EFSA) and is considered genotoxic in vivo. EFSA stated, however, that this effect is unlikely to occur at low concentrations used for flavourings in foods. However, a risk assessment should be conducted for inhalation exposure of e-cigarettes. For trans-2-Hexenal and 2-Furyl methyl ketone, an evaluation was conducted by EFSA but no conclusions on the in vivo genotoxic potential of these substances could be drawn and additional data were requested. These substances may therefore pose a potential health risk. The question of whether these substances actually pose a significant risk to the health of e-cigarette users will need further research. The current legal framework is laid down in the Royal Decree of 28 October 2016 on the manufacture and placing on the market of electronic cigarettes, which transposes Article 20 of Directive 2014/40 EU on nicotine-based electronic cigarettes. In particular, this regulation implements a system for the notification of electronic cigarettes and electronic cigarette liquids containing nicotine, which implies that producers provide my services with a list of all ingredients and quantities used by brand and type. This makes it possible to identify products containing a prohibited additive. The Royal Decree of 28 October 2016 prohibits the use of additives which have carcinogenic, mutagenic or reprotoxic characteristics in unburned form. Products containing CMR ingredients (carcinogens, mutagens or reprotoxics) can thus be kept away from the market. In order to regulate e-cigarettes as best as possible and in particular their composition, my services have requested an update from the Council of Health on the previous e-cigarettes opinion, dated October 2015. The expert group started its work in 2020 and the new opinion is expected for the summer of 2021. The issue of additives to be allowed or prohibited in liquids is currently under discussion in this group. The information from Sciensano is of course taken into account, in particular the fact that the risks associated with the five substances detected cannot be excluded, and that these substances must be avoided in electronic cigarettes in order to minimise the risks to consumers. In parallel with this notice, my services prepared a proposal to revise the Royal Order of October 28, 2016. This proposal provides for the possibility of restricting the use of additives in liquids in a more specific and detailed manner via ministerial decree. In addition, the provisions of the Royal Decree will also be extended to nicotine-free liquids. This new legal basis will allow my services to deal with this issue in a manner consistent with the opinion of the CSS when it is published. This proposal for a royal decree is submitted to the CSS for analysis and will then be notified to the European Commission, as provided for in the procedure. At European level, the recently published cancer control plan provides for the revision of Directive 2014/40/EU on tobacco products and electronic cigarettes. Once the implementation of this directive has been postponed in May this year, it is likely that the European Commission will embark on this review process. New regulations on the composition of electronic cigarettes are therefore also possible at EU level in the longer term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u54	Minister, thank you for taking stock of the situation. Indeed, these 14 genotoxic substances were interpelling, with potential health risks. I hear that further research will have to be carried out, which I welcome with great satisfaction. In order to better regulate, you have requested an update and a new notice is expected in the summer of 2021. A proposal to revise the Royal Decree of 28 October 2016, which I referred to in my question, is also foreseen. In this case, as in other cases, the precautionary principle must obviously prevail where there is a proven risk. In any case, we must also have legislation on this e-cigarette which avoids further difficulties for consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u55	Minister, in December I asked a written question on the Special Solidarity Fund. The figures show a clear decline in files over the last five years. What's the reason for that? The budget also follows the declining trend. Is the budget calculated on the number of files or is there another explanation for this? Although the number of files and the budget decreased, we saw an increase in the amounts paid. How do you explain that? Do you have the impression that the safety net is sufficiently well known?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u56	The number of dossiers under the Special Solidarity Fund is rather constant on an annual basis. The latest figures confirm that. 1,577 files were submitted in 2020, compared to 1,508 in 2019. In order to frame those numbers correctly, you should also look at the number of persons who have applied. Indeed, one person may submit multiple applications for the same or another provision. An application for 2019 and 2020 was submitted by 868 and 880 persons respectively. Nor does the annual budget of the BSF show a declining trend. The partial budget objective, as approved by the General Council, is based on an accurate follow-up of expenditure. An assessment for the future is made of this. In addition, a margin is also taken for the sector, given the volatility of expenditure. Moreover, the expenditure of the Special Solidarity Fund is strongly related to new benefits in kind - medicines, implants and techniques - and to the inclusion in structural reimbursement as a result of decisions taken by other bodies. Each dossier shall be assessed on an individual basis and checked to see whether it meets the criteria laid down in Article 25 of the Law on compulsory medical care and benefits, coordinated on 14 July 1994. It can be seen that there is an increase in more expensive benefits in kind. For example, the BSF is increasingly addressed in rare diseases and in the reimbursement of expensive medicines, including oncological and immunotherapy. Implants and medical devices reimbursed by the BSF are also becoming increasingly expensive. The operation and role of the BSF can clearly be found on the website of the RIZIV. The organ may not yet be equally well known to all care providers and patients, which may result in underutilisation and may not meet the conditions for certain dossiers. There may be a sensitising role for insurance institutions here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for the clarification. I understand that the increase in the budget has to do with more expensive interventions. As the files decrease, one would think of a decrease, but the increase is due to the reimbursement of more expensive interventions. My question as to whether the fund was sufficiently well-known was motivated by a lady's testimony at the hearing on long covid. She fell out of the blue when I asked her if she had applied to the Special Solidarity Fund. It is therefore a good thing to pay attention to initiatives for the publication of the Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u58	Mr Minister, I refer to the question put in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u59	Mr President, Mr De Caluwé, I hope you will forgive me, but my answer has been drawn up entirely in French.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u60	That's not a problem, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, three federal administrations (INAMI, AFMPS and FPS Public Health) are working together to finalize a framework that will allow all hospitals that so wish to organise the care of certain patients in the form of home hospitalization. This is a framework that will initially be limited to chemotherapy and intravenous antibiotic therapy at home, the two areas covered by the pilot projects. Such a framework still requires a Royal Order of the AFMPS to specify the conditions under which a drug may be administered at home, as preparation and delivery are the responsibility of a hospital pharmacist. In addition, this also requires a funding framework that includes the conditions under which health insurance may be involved in the cost of hospitalisation at home. INAMI is working on such a framework on the basis, on the one hand, of the results of the pilot projects and, on the other hand, of its own information. In addition, account will be taken of the results of the study carried out by the association Kom op tegen kanker, which will be published on 21 April 2021. The INAMI proposal will then be submitted to the relevant partners, including hospital organisations, doctors and nurses. It is these partners who will propose a text of agreement to the Insurance Committee. We can hope that an agreement will be reached by July 2021. The main trends emerging from the evaluation of pilot projects are as follows. The positive aspects are: the general satisfaction of patients (possibility of combining home treatment with work, avoidance of hospital stay, no need for major adaptation to the patient's home); the general satisfaction of providers (low additional stress, possibility of expanding their professional skills); the possibility of strengthening the links between front-line and second-line care; the quality of care maintained through the use of specialized staff and training organised at the front-line level; the small number of patients who have stopped or been excluded from home hospitalization, usually due to a preference for hospital treatment or the desire to receive care from regular front-line care providers. Some difficulties also arise: the financial aspect for the patient if the benefits are not covered by the insurers, sometimes a lack of communication between the hospital providers compared to front-line providers and difficulties with the usual hours of service at the front-line level. The contract between hospitals and other ETs was initially concluded for two years (2018 and 2019). It was extended by one year (2020) and was due to expire on 31 December 2020. As you recall, in early December 2020, the hospitals participating in the pilot project were informed that in anticipation of the end of the contract, they were asked not to include any patients whose treatment continued beyond December 31. However, it was also agreed that patients who had already started home hospital treatment would remain under the terms of the contract for the duration of their treatment even if it was extended in the first months of 2021. The intention is to be able to extend the home-based hospitalization formula as quickly as possible to all hospitals and not only to hospitals that have participated in the pilot phase. This seems all the more important because, as you point out, in times of pandemics, the initiative can help to reduce congestion in hospital facilities, but also to reduce the risk of hospital contamination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u62	Mr President, Minister, I myself believe very strongly in home hospitalization. This is not only a way to save on health insurance, which, of course, should not be the main objective, but it is mainly because many people who are ill prefer to stay home. I don't think anyone's questioning that. Digitisation in healthcare will also make it much more possible in the future for people to be hospitalised at home. I am thinking, for example, of the development of apps that allow people to be monitored remotely, just as we can do in the hospital at the moment. It is good that an evaluation has been carried out and I am glad that you want to continue rolling out your predecessor's pilot projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u63	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his reply and for the moment of the situation he has made to us. I am also very sensitive to this personalized care of patients at their usual place of life. I am pleased to hear that beyond the evaluation, there is an extension of a whole series of pilot projects. I remain convinced that this is one of the areas that we will have to develop in the years to come. I am pleased to hear the Minister's proactive policy on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u64	Question No 55015365C by Mrs Merckx is postponed. Questions Nos 55015385C, 55015401C and 55015548C by Ms Muylle are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u65	Minister, last December, I was asking you about the status of negotiations with the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products (CRM) on migraine treatments belonging to the class of CGRP inhibitors. At the time, you confirmed to me that negotiations were under way on Aimovig 70 mg and 140 mg, Ajovy or Emgality. One of the ongoing programs that gives some patients access to some of these drugs, particularly Aimovig, is coming to an end. What will happen to these patients, in a few weeks' time, when this program ends and they will not be able to afford treatment that amounts to several hundred euros per month. There is, however, a question of treatment which has enabled them to return to an almost normal life, since they have been able to return to work and to regain their autonomy. As is well known, 90% of people with migraines report that they are unable to work or function when faced with a migraine episode. In Belgium alone, this represents 1 650 000 days of work lost each year. The societal cost of migraine is estimated at €985 million per year. Migraine affects 14.7% of the population in Europe, a predominantly active population aged 20-44. Minister, since December 2020, have you received new information about CRM decisions? Have any other treatments been claimed? What solutions will be proposed to patients for whom the program for which they are coming to an end soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u66	Minister, migraine is an important public health issue. In its severe form, severe chronic migraine may indeed be very disabling. While some medicinal products are used to relieve part of the population concerned, they are not specifically intended for the treatment of migraines. Some patients are therefore forced to suffer, without a solution to ease their pain. Today, however, new treatments have arrived. These innovative new treatments, specifically designed to treat migraines, can reduce the occurrence of crises in a sustainable manner. For patients, this gives hope for an improvement in their quality of life and overall well-being. Four products currently exist. However, according to the Belgian League against Headache, access to these treatments is not yet possible in Belgium. The files for three of these molecules have been for months for analysis at the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products. Without these repayment agreements, access to these therapies is too expensive and inaccessible for a large part of households, which are expected to spend between 400 and 600 euros per month to obtain them. So, Minister, have applications been sent to the Commission for reimbursement of medicinal products for these different treatments? If so, what is the status of their review? If access to these preventive treatments is not ensured for patients with migraines, are specific measures envisaged to support these patients in order to enable them to continue to lead a social and professional life?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u67	Minister, to help patients with chronic migraine, some therapies would be very encouraging. Three new treatments have already been approved, but patients do not yet have access to them in our territory. Since 2019, exchanges regarding their possible repayments have not been successful. Recently, you told us that in September 2018, Novartis had requested the refund of Aimovig 70 mg. In March 2019, a second dossier was introduced for the reimbursement of this 140 mg drug. At the time, the views expressed were all negative. At the end of November 2019, the pharmaceutical company again submitted a dossier for the 70 and 140 mg strengths, a request for which the procedure seems to be still in progress. The views expressed in this procedure indicated that the cost of health insurance is high. Of course, during this time, patients are waiting for innovative medicines that could allow them to live their daily lives in better conditions. These innovative treatments could a priori curb crises for several weeks. Minister, have your services been solicited by patient associations? Precisely, have you had any exchanges with the Belgian League against headaches? If so, what requests were made to the government? What answers have been provided in return? Why were the two previous dossiers concerning Aimovig rejected? A new procedure for the reimbursement of this medicine is currently under way. What is the exact status of the procedure? When will the opinion be delivered? Do you have more information to share with us at this stage? The consequences of the disease on the living conditions of these patients are enormous. So what initiatives do you think can already be taken to help patients with chronic migraine?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to start with a summary of the procedures for admission to reimbursement for specialties based on monoclonal anti-CGRP antibodies. In September 2018, Novartis submitted a dossier to CRM for admission to the Aimovig 70 mg refund. Following the MRC's assessment of the application, the possibility of concluding an agreement between INAMI and Novartis to temporarily list the medicinal product on the list of reimbursable proprietary medicinal products was examined. Following the negotiations, the working group responsible for these negotiations issued a negative opinion on the conclusion of a convention for temporary admission to the reimbursement of Aimovig 70 mg. On the basis of the CRM analysis, it was found that the cost for health insurance per patient is very high and that there are a number of significant uncertainties related to this medicine, in particular as regards the potential budgetary impact and the added value of the medicine in the target population proposed by the firm. The Working Group considered that the budget compensation proposed by the firm was insufficient in view of the above. In March 2019, Novartis submitted a dossier to CRM for admission to the 140 mg refund of Aimovig. Negotiations have also been initiated with the firm on this matter, but the working group reached the same conclusion and has therefore again expressed a negative opinion to the Minister of Social Affairs on the conclusion of a convention for the temporary admission to Aimovig's reimbursement. At the end of November 2019, Novartis submitted a new dossier to CRM for Aimovig, both for the 70 mg assay and for the 140 mg assay. As this case is still under way, I am not in a position to provide you with more information about this procedure. This could jeopardize the smooth operation of the reimbursement procedure. This applies not only to Aimovig's application for reimbursement but also to all cases for which the refund procedure is under way. At the end of October 2019, Teva Pharma Belgium submitted to CRM an application for reimbursement of the Ajovy proprietary medicinal product. At the beginning of March 2020, a third firm, Eli Lilly Benelux submitted an application for reimbursement to CRM for the pharmaceutical specialty Emgality. Like Aimovig, these two specialties belong to the class of CGRP inhibitors. Like Aimovig, these two files are ongoing and we are not in a position to provide more details, including timelines. With respect to other molecules, I can tell you that there has been no application for reimbursement for another treatment in this indication since December 2020. Aimovig's compassionate program was approved by the AFMPS on 20 November 2018 and is currently closed since 31 December 2019. However, in accordance with Article 83(8) of Regulation No 726/2004, the applicant for the programme remains, after the end of the programme, responsible for the implementation of the programme for patients who were included before the end of the programme until the marketing of the medicinal product. Since Aimovig is not yet marketed in Belgium, the applicant must continue to provide Aimovig free of charge to enrolled patients as of 31 December 2019. With regard to current treatments, apart from conventional preventive treatments, which have been reimbursed for at least ten years (topiramate, valproic acid, propranolol), botox has now been reimbursed for chronic migraine patients since March 1, 2019. Specific measures for access to innovative medicines will be examined when the pharmaceutical pact is drawn up. In this regard, it is important that these measures are not considered individually but are part of a comprehensive drug policy. In addition, we must ensure that policy changes are implemented in a parallel and consistent manner with other reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u69	Minister, thank you for reminding us of the procedure. Of course we know her. Since 2018, I have been asking you and your predecessor about these issues. I am in weekly contact with the League against Headaches and other associations that are fighting daily to relieve patients. I understand that the company must continue to provide these drugs free of charge for the time of the program and its marketing. But we also know that these medicines stop, in any case for Aimovig, in June. They will be marketed in June, refund or not. June is tomorrow. This means that as of June, there is no solution for these patients who suffer on a daily basis. It seems to me that the cost of these drugs should be balanced against the societal cost of migraine. I am trying to fight in this committee for a real debate on the issue of migraine. It's not easy. I hope that it can take place with the bail of several doctors, including neurologists, who would come to prove the effectiveness of this medicine. We will continue in the coming months to come back to this issue, even though I understand that innovative medicines are part of a whole and you want to look at them in a comprehensive way. But in this case, let us get to work without delay because access to certain medicines will soon end. However, it is not possible for most patients to pay 400, 500 or even 600 euros per month. It is therefore social security which will have to intervene in the context of sick leave, which will represent an additional burden for it. Anyway, I thank you for your answer, although I do not hide my great disappointment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u70	Minister, thank you for your answer. I mean the uncertainties that remain with regard to the medicines mentioned. But, as has been pointed out, it is essential to provide a high-quality and accessible treatment for people who suffer from migraines and whose social and professional life is greatly affected by many days every month. We must allow them to live again socially, but also professionally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u71	Minister, thank you for your answer. I was recently questioned by the Belgian League against headaches which told me that, pending a structural decision, two firms would have initiated an emergency medical access programme for some patients. However, this access will end in June 2021. I therefore ask you to pay attention to this particular situation and to ensure that a structural response is provided for the patients concerned before this deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u72	Minister, it is important that we provide mental health care to the most vulnerable groups in the short term. We've already done that. The Council of Ministers of 5 March adopted short-term measures, both for group sessions for students and for mobile crisis teams for young and elderly people, for a considerable amount. It is, of course, important that we also seek structural solutions for our mental health care, as you have already announced in plenary in response to a number of questions, including mine. Indeed, from a public health perspective, we need to organise the first line with clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics better, in order to respond better to the need for care rather than to leave the range of care. You have also said that there is a kind of working group in the process, a committee of agreements that comes from my resolution and is transversal. At the moment she is working on a system of financing first-line psychology from the need for care. The Transversal Agreement Commission currently operates under the statute of a working group, but is not yet legally enshrined in RIZIV legislation. This could lead to mental health professionals not being able to participate in discussions on the RIZIV multiannual budget. Hence my questions. Can you explain under which statute the Transversal Agreement Committee meets today? Who's all represented? How often does she meet? When will it be legally anchored? As a result of the protocol agreement you concluded with the regions, what is the status of recognising the support of mental health appeals such as psychological counsellors and orthopedagogics, who are still waiting for the transitional measures to be recognised as a clinical orthopedagogic eye?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u73	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, the committee started by means of a provisional composition in December, for the time being because this is awaiting anchoring in the regulations of the RIZIV. The committee currently consists of 6 representatives of the insurance institutions, 6 representatives of hospital organisations, 6 representatives of clinical psychologists and orthopedagogues, 6 representatives of the coordinators of the mental health care networks.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The committee met for the first time on 10 December 2020 and a forthcoming meeting is scheduled for 25 March. In the meantime, a committee working group, in which a representative of each stakeholder group is present, has started to prepare the revision and extension of the current agreement on first-line psychological care. From the point of view of public mental health, which you pointed out, this working group will make a proposal to the transversal agreement committee. The legal anchoring of the transversal agreement committee in the RIZIV regulation is foreseen for later this year. This requires further clarification of the powers and functioning of this committee. In the meantime, I have asked the Federal Council for the mental health professions to designate within its paragraphs 2 representatives, including one alternate each, of the professional organisations of clinical psychologists and of clinical orthopedagogics who are invited as experts on the insurance committee of the RIZIV if a donor is presented in which psychologists and pedagogues are involved. The coordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of healthcare professions provides in Article 68/2/2, § 2 that, after having obtained the opinion of the Federal Council for the Mental Health Care Occupations, a royal decree may be drawn up containing the list of mental health support professions, as well as the general criteria for the recognition of the mental health support professions and that the specific criteria applicable to each of the mental health support professions can be determined. A working group was set up within the Federal Council at the beginning of this year to prepare advice on the mental health support professions. I expect that advice by this summer. As this opinion is an important step in the recognition of mentally assisted health professions, I will wait and see before taking any further initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed an update of the work. I am pleased that these continue and that clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics are given a seat at the table, including in the insurance committee. It is strange that this has not happened before, but it is a good thing that this government makes it a priority to allow at least the caregivers involved to take part in the decision on the funds. I therefore hope that, later this year, the transversal agreement committee can be quickly anchored so that decisions can be taken effectively by the industry itself. From the field, I hear that the short-term measures you have taken are important. The need remains acute, and there is still a question, I will give you that, whether the 112 million provided for will not be able to provide the resources that will help people more quickly today. If we have to wait another year before the public health approach meets the needs, that is quite long in view of the great need that exists today. My suggestion remains that, in the interim, a number of things should be provided for and that children, young people and adults should be able to go to a psychologist quickly and at an affordable rate, even today, in the interim, provided that a small change is made to the current system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u75	Question No 55015572C by Mr Josy Arens is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u76	Mr. President, Minister, leukemia is a bone marrow cell cancer that mobilizes the solidarity of citizens and the determination of researchers every year. This is the ninth most common cancer in Belgium and, unfortunately, more than a thousand people die every year. Busulfan is a medicine given to patients with this disease. It exists under the names of Myleran or Busilvex. Its treatment is used to condition stem cell transplantation. Currently, busulfan is administered orally to adult patients, which may be toxic due to variability in intestinal absorption. Intravenous administration is only reimbursed today for minors. Minister, could you explain this difference in reimbursement for the use of intravenous busulfan between adults and minors? In a very practical way, would it also be possible to allow this reimbursement for adults who undergo stem cell transplantation and who are approximately 50 per year? Of course, we are talking about a niche audience, but it is extremely important for these people to be able to have this reimbursement and intravenous administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u77	Mr President, Mr Prévot, there is only one specialty based on busulfan that is administered intravenously. The others give themselves in tablets. The commercial name of the injectable product is Busilvex from the firm Pierre Fabre. Busilvex lost its status as an orphan medicine in 2013, following ten years of exclusivity on the European market. The target population as described in the marketing authorisation has always been restricted. At first, it was even exclusively for children. In addition, the authorised indication specifies the chemotherapy regimens where Busilvex has an authorised place. Therefore, the scope of the old orphan drug Busilvex is limited but, at the same time, its price is very high. Its price has always been clearly higher than the price of busulfan-based tablets. In 2015, my predecessor, Minister De Block, extended Busilvex's reimbursement criteria to all children with malignant or non-malignant conditions, prior to transplanting this strain and independently of the chemotherapy regimen. This explains why the current reimbursement of Busilvex in Chapter 4 contains the on-label, but also off-label, situations in paediatrics. Let's go back to your question about the adult. I agree with you that a refund of busulfan should be extended to adults. However, the high price will no longer be sustainable. I will ask AFMPS and INAMI to comment on the various evidences in adults, together with the firm concerned and the scientific societies. In this way, we can open the reimbursement of the old busulfan molecule to adult patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u78	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have been contacted and sensitized by haematologists who work every day with these people suffering from leukemia. It seemed to them completely foolish, and even delusional, that this intravenously injected adult drug could not be reimbursed, when all the difficulties of oral administration are known. I hear you're on the same path as me and the hematologists who asked for me. You are opening the door to examining a possibility of repayment in the future and I hope that a realization will follow. I will not fail to return to you. This concerns, good year wrong year, about fifty patients. For them, it would make all the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u79	At the committee meeting on 3 February, Minister, I asked you about the reimbursement of Luxturna. Then you were able to tell us that the discussions were ongoing and would be concluded in the near future. What's the status of the file? In the meantime, I have also forwarded the contact details of Luxturna's managers to your employee. Have you contacted those people yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u80	My co-worker confirms they've been passed on. I believe that the contact has been made in the meantime. Luxturna concerns gene therapy for the single treatment of hereditary retinal dystrophy by specific mutations. The asking price for the medicinal product was exceptionally high by Novartis. The ex-works price and reimbursement basis for a one-off treatment at both eyes is 690,000 euros, i.e. for two syringes, each of 345,000 euros. As there were also uncertainties about the degree of clinical efficacy and safety, especially in relation to the costs of the new therapy, it was necessary to negotiate with the pharmaceutical company Novartis. We didn't go ice cream in one night. I can tell you today that an agreement was concluded with the manufacturer to repay the medicine for our Belgian patients from 1 April 2021. It is therefore a contract repayment, in this case with a duration of three years, which, on the one hand, regulates the budget and, on the other hand, lays down modalities for reporting and evaluating the scientific uncertainties that still exist today. That's good news for the patients involved. There aren't many, namely 18 people in the next 3 years. However, patients have been waiting a long time for this treatment, which is not healing, but the degeneration stops and provides clinical improvement of vision at low luminous intensity. Thus, she gives the patient more autonomy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for your very hopeful answer. I'm happy for the patients. Losing eyesight is not nothing and if the medicine can help them to remain a little independent from others, then that is certainly a good thing. I believe I understand that this is a three-year contract. So this has to be renegotiated after three years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u82	That's a rather specific procedure. So I will not improvise on this now, but these conventions always apply for a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u83	Thank you again for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u84	Mr President, Minister, a report by the Pano Actua programme last week on residential areas in the vicinity of the company Umicore in Hoboken once again showed that the children who live there have too high levels of lead in the blood. That is a problem that has been dragging on for decades and that many policy makers have failed. After the company's efforts, it may and must also be said that there was some improvement, but also a relapse. While international bodies, such as the European Food Safety Authority and the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, apply considerably stricter standards, the provincial environmental permit issued still appears to be based on the smoother standards of 10 micrograms per deciliter blood of the World Health Organisation. The too high lead-in-blood levels in children are not only a major problem for us, but worldwide. In its 2010 and 2015 evaluations, the World Health Organisation indicated that there is actually no safe value, because lead in the blood always has harmful effects, which have also been scientifically proven: the damage to the nervous system and the impact on brain development, resulting in learning disorders, behavioural disorders and possibly reduction of the IQ. In pregnant women, too, high levels of lead would increase the risk of miscarriage or premature birth. In the district, not only lead concentrations appear to be too high, but European cadmium and arsenic targets are also exceeded. Then I have two questions for you, Minister. What is the Belgian policy on exceeding European targets for metals that pose a threat to public health? Are there controls provided by, for example, the Public Health Office? Are fines or measures for improvement imposed? What are the difficulties? Could you give me a little more explanation? I don't know if the next question is for you, but I'm gonna ask them anyway. Will Belgium press the World Health Organisation for a debate on the tightening of standards on lead levels in blood levels?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u85	Mr President, Mrs Vanpeborgh, the granting and monitoring of environmental permits is, of course, a regional competence. You must address Mrs Demir in Flanders. At European level, lead is classified according to the CLP Regulation, which means classification, labelling and packaging, as toxic for reproduction, in brackets fertility and development, and with effect on lactation. Furthermore, the CLP dossier mentions acute and chronic hazard to the aquatic environment, Category 1 hazards to lead in powder. For many years now, my administration has been monitoring the ban on products containing lead for the general public in order to reduce exposure to lead. For example, there is a study of lead in fantasy jewelry. You will find it on the website of my administration, www.health.belgium.be. You will find, for example, that you have to be careful with jewellery containing cadmium and lead. The REACH Regulation imposes the following restrictions on lead: restrictions on lead in consumer products, restrictions on lead in jewellery and restrictions on lead in wetlands. In addition, the following restrictions are still under development: the restriction of lead in ammunition for hunting, sports shooting and fishing gear and the restriction of lead in PVC. My services closely monitor these restriction processes and participate actively in the discussions at the European level. In these discussions, our services are committed to defending an ambitious position in relation to substances of concern such as lead. Care on carcinogenic and neurotoxic substances is closely monitored. The BFSA carries out annual checks on the presence of heavy metals, including lead, in foods, to ensure compliance with the standards imposed by the European Food Safety Authority, EFSA. The activities of the BFSA are under the competence of Mr Clarinval. If you have specific questions about this, you can address him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u86	Mr President, I listened very carefully to the Minister. I will certainly address Mr Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u87	Colleagues, I would remind you that the minister, unless he is mistaken, will be with us until 5:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u88	Mrs Depoorter, on your next question on the agenda, No. 55015673C, about Parlodel, I don't have an answer yet. I fear that we will have to deal with them next time. It has not been possible to prepare the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u89	In fact, it is simple, Minister. I would prefer the KB on the missing medicines to be worked out rather than me getting an answer. A number of royal decisions need to be prepared under the legislation on the missing medicines, which was adopted last year and would enter into force on 2 February 2020. I see you nodding. You are busy, but it is urgent, especially in order to ensure continuity of care.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u90	That's a good note.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u91	Thank you for your understanding, Mrs Depoorter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u92	Mrs Van Camp, medical benefits in kind are legally reserved for competent health care professionals. This strict regulation creates a barrier to access to care in certain situations. As a result, some patients have no or insufficient care or entrust tasks to a non-health care professional. In these cases, the quality and safety of care are not always guaranteed. The people who help a patient in this way also break the law. In order to find a solution to this problem, a protocol agreement on cooperation between patients and healthcare professionals was drawn up and approved at the Inter-Ministerial Conference of 20 November 2017. The Federal Council for Nursing and the Technical Commission for Nursing also delivered opinions within this framework. In 2019 there was the opinion 03 of the Federal Council and opinion 02 of the Technical Commission. Initiatives to implement the protocol agreement to clarify the delegation of nursing activities to competent helpers in the area of the patient have been politically stranded to this day. We are currently examining the various possibilities, opinions and proposals, and then going back into consultation with the field of work and interest groups, including the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u93	Thank you, Minister, for your honest answer. We are effectively hearing in the field that these problems still exist today and that there is no practical effect yet. So the issue is clearly stranded. I therefore hope that you will manage to sit around the table with everyone to work out an arrangement. The problems are real. In my question, I refer to the disabled sector, where a counselor assists in medication-taking, for example. This is also common practice in education and other sectors, and it is often not possible to find other solutions. We therefore have every advantage in developing a framework for these important sectors, which are under extra pressure today. I understand from your answer that you will take the matter back into your hands. We will monitor them in Parliament in due course, so that the necessary progress can be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u94	Minister, I took advantage of the whole debate about the potential cases of thrombosis reported in several people vaccinated with AstraZeneca. We had an opportunity to discuss this in plenary on Thursday, and I had already said and recalled how politically courageous you were. I think this is rare enough to be stressed. Beyond this almost sterile debate about AstraZeneca, there is another widely used drug that presents a proven risk of thrombosis. I'm talking about the contraceptive pills widely prescribed to women. In 2013, the Federal Medicines Agency pointed out that over a year, venous thrombosis is expected in two women per 10,000 second-generation pill users and three to four women per 10,000 third-generation pill users. The European Medicines Agency had concluded that there was no reason for women to stop contraception and that the benefits of pills remained greater than the risks. However, the Agency recommended that patients be better informed and follow-up intensified. In 2013, in Belgium, a letter was sent to gynaecologists and general practitioners asking them to look for risk factors in patients during any prescription (personal and family medical history, smoking, etc.). and follow up in the first year. Minister, how do you ensure that health care professionals follow the recommendations of the European Medicines Agency, namely the information and follow-up of patients in case of prescription of contraceptive pills? Have any new contraception-related recommendations been passed on to health-care providers? If so, what are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u95	Mr President, Mr Prévot, the risk of venous thromboembolism with oestroprogestative contraceptives is well known and was evaluated by the European Medicines Agency in 2013. This assessment shows that the risk varies by product and depends on the type of progestin they contain. It was concluded that in most women, the benefits associated with the use of oestroprogestative contraceptives are significantly greater than the risks of serious adverse reactions. However, it was also stressed that priority should now be given to the individual risk factors of each woman and to the need for regular re-evaluation and awareness of the signs and symptoms of venous thromboembolism and arterial thromboembolism that should be explained to women when prescribing an estroprogestative contraceptive. This is a very normal, traditional but necessary instruction for all medicines with regard to indications of side effects. As you point out, direct communication was sent at that time to health care professionals to make them aware of the differences between products in the risk of thromboembolism and the importance of individual risk factors and to encourage them to remain alert to signs and symptoms as well. Also as a result of this review, product characteristics summaries and notices have been updated to reflect the current understanding of the available evidence and to make this information as clear as possible. A checklist for prescribers has been established, which can be used in conjunction with the SPC during each consultation for an estroprogestative contraceptive, as risk factors may change over time. A fact sheet has also been prepared for the patient. All these documents are available on the AFMPS website. Recently, in December 2020, a communiqué from the Centre de pharmacovigilance was published in the monthly periodical Folia Pharmacotherapeutica of the Belgian Centre for Pharmacotherapeutic Information, following receipt of a notification of fatal pulmonary embolism in a 20-year-old woman. This press release highlighted the importance for physicians, in order to reduce the risk of venous thromboembolism, to inform patients of the risk of thrombosis and to warn them of the clinical symptoms that should prompt them to consult a physician promptly, to follow patients closely during the periods most at risk of venous thromboembolism, i.e. during the first year of treatment and, in case of resumption after at least four weeks of interruption; to consider the possibility of venous thromboembolism when an oestroprogestative contraceptive user has symptoms that may evoke venous thromboembolism. In addition, AFMPS is in the process of drafting a DHPC (a communication to professionals) to reflect recent figures regarding the risk of dienogest, a more recent progestin present in some oestroprogestative contraceptives. This DHPC will also be communicated to healthcare providers in the near future. So I hope I've informed you about the state of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u96	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, thank you for taking stock of this issue that I felt was essential. In the context of the AstraZeneca debate, it seemed to me important to put a spotlight on the contraceptive pill, which has a proven risk of venous thromboembolism. I thank you for taking stock of the situation and for explaining in great detail what has happened, what is happening and what will happen, particularly in terms of awareness and information. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u97	You're right. Your question is welcome. I believe that there is a need for a rational approach, where patients and patients are properly informed about all the benefits, benefits and potential risks of drugs and vaccines. As I stressed, there is often a very individual aspect that emphasizes the importance of the physician's role in his or her individual relationship with the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u98	Minister, I am a little concerned about this issue. You share the competence on pesticides with Minister Clarinval and Minister Khattabi. I have therefore already put my question to them. You're the first to answer them. At the end of April, the European Commission will publish a study on genetically modified organisms. After that, it is up to Belgium to adopt a position. My questions are mainly about the procedure. Firstly, what is your competence throughout the procedure on GMOs? Secondly, can you explain to me how this will take place after the study into the definition of Belgium's position? How will we do that? Is there room for a parliamentary debate? Who will be involved in the formulation of that position? Third, what's the exact timing? How will there be cooperation with the Regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u99	Mrs Creemers, I am responsible at federal level for matters relating to GMOs, particularly for the release of GMOs into the environment, whether or not for medicinal use under Directive 2001/18/EEC, and for GMOs used in food or animal nutrition under EC Regulation No. It's a mess, it's a mess, it's a mess, it's a mess, it's a mess, it's a mess, it's a mess, it's a mess, it's a mess, it's a mess, it's a mess, it's a mess, it's a mess, it's a mess, it's a mess, it's a mess, it's a messs, it's a mess, it's a messs, it's a mess, it's a mess, it's a mess. The contained use of GMOs and the legislation governing the coexistence of GMO crops are not within my competence, as these are regional competences. To respond to the European Commission's questionnaire, the Belgian competent authority, the FPS Health, Environment and Safety of the Food Chain, consulted the competent regional authorities, the BFSA, Sciensano, the National Reference Laboratory, the Advisory Board on Biosafety and the Belgian Advisory Committee on Bioethics. The Commission's questions on the new genome techniques focused on the implementation of GMO legislation, research and innovation, dialogue with the public, ethical considerations, opportunities and benefits, as well as on the challenges and concerns of the competent authorities of the Member States. My services and I are now awaiting the conclusions of the European Commission's study and any initiatives that will follow. It's hard to predict what they'll mean. I will then, together with the other ministers concerned, look at the next steps. Where appropriate, the Belgian position in the dossier will be prepared at least in consultation with the competent federal and regional authorities, as well as with Sciensano, the National Reference Laboratory and the Advisory Council on Biosafety. As I have already pointed out, Belgium's position will be drawn up in due course, since we cannot anticipate the conclusions of the study or the consequences that the Commission will give it. For each file which also belongs to the powers of the Regions, they are involved in the different procedures. If the Commission's conclusions require further consultation between the federal and regional authorities, this will be organised in the light of the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u100	Thank you. It is good to hear that you are sitting at the table, so that there are certainly different opinions when formulating that position. It is also good to hear that different bodies are involved. Of course, we do not yet know what is in the publication of the European Commission. So I understand that you have not yet been able to clarify this. When will the Belgian position have to be formulated? Or is that not quite clear either?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u101	I do not see that in my preparation and I do not know, Mrs Creemers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u102	Then there'll be time. If the position were to be formulated by the end of May, you would have known that, I suppose. So I'm assuming there's time. At the moment, I do not hear you say anything about a parliamentary debate or about a debate on an even larger scale, but we can look at that when the opinion of the European Commission is there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u103	Minister, since the 1990s cryotherapy has been a recovery treatment widely used by curists and athletes. Cryotherapy consists of two to three minutes of immersion in a chamber at a temperature up to -196°C. This would free up some neurotransmitters such as endorphins and thus improve the well-being of patients. Today, more and more doctors are advocating this practice to treat patients with rheumatism, fibromyalgia or multiple sclerosis. By doing so, there would be a decrease in the use of painkillers and anti-inflammatory drugs. Minister, are you aware of recent studies on cryotherapy practice? If so, what are the conclusions and recommendations? Currently, the installation of cryotherapy caissons is completely free. These unconventional and unstructured practices require, in my view, to be so. Today, practice requires no qualified training and no binding protocol exists. This ill-exercised or poorly controlled practice can cause serious damage. Do you therefore not consider it useful to regulate further? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u104	Mr Rigot, thank you. I have an extremely short answer, I apologize. I think it is correct, but it is also true that my services have had little time to carry out an extensive search and to detail a little the reasoning behind the answer. Here she is. Currently, data from the scientific literature on the efficacy and safety of whole body cryotherapy are limited. The studies published contain too few patients to allow conclusions. The researchers recommend that further investigations be conducted on the subject. Thus, the certainty of the usefulness or otherwise of the treatment cannot be considered as acquired for the pathologies you cite.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u105	Minister, thank you. I accept your apology and I understand the timing and the fact that we are standing here again in an alternative or a new therapy. My goal through this question is above all to protect the patient. Beyond that, if we can open the door to new therapies and treatments and certainly relieve it in terms of taking medication, these are things we can try. I will not fail to come back to the subject and also to inquire about these practices in order to examine their relevance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u106	Minister, the Colla Act of 29 April 1999 intended to regulate unconventional practices in the fields of medical art, pharmaceutical art, physiotherapy, nursing and paramedical professions. Four practices were initially covered by the text: homeopathy, osteopathy, chiropractic and acupuncture. The aim of the legislator was to ensure quality care for each patient through registration of unconventional practices and registration of practitioners. Important work had been done on homeopathy but not on other practices. Mr Minister, it is obviously regrettable that patients who are increasingly turning to this type of practice are unable to ensure the quality of the providers and cannot benefit from the general regulation of patient law. Could you tell us what is happening with the continued implementation of the Colla Act of 1999? Are you planning to frame these practices in the future? If so, could Parliament again be involved in the discussions as has been done in the past?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u107	Mr Rigot, you rightly point out that, in the past, only homeopathy was the subject of a decree implementing this legislation of 29 April 1999, and that it is therefore necessary to examine the various possibilities for the application of this law. During the previous legislature, several attempts were made to develop a legal framework for other practices, but they did not succeed. The truth is, this is also a little due to the circumstances. I cannot provide you with any concrete information on how we are going to proceed with a possible regulation or on the people who need to be contacted for this purpose, but your concerns are taken into account in the reflection on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u108	Minister, thank you. Of course, I will not fail to be attentive because I think, as I have already told you, that protecting the patient is essential. Today, citizens are increasingly turning to alternatives; they want to try so-called soft medicines and other options as well. They may do so out of curiosity, or perhaps also because they do not find answers to their questions in traditional treatments. We must therefore be able to preserve them so that they do not run any risk when they try "a new adventure". The adventure has to be framed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u109	Mr President, Minister, since Corona, the second part of abortion with the pill method can also happen at home. The first consultation can now also be done by telephone, for the second conversation the woman still has to go to the center or hospital, because then an ultrasound has to be made to determine the pregnancy. The second phase can now, since corona, also happen at home. First one must take a first pill in the abortion center to end the pregnancy. That pill isn't just available everywhere, it's only available through hospitals and abortion centers. Between 24 and 48 hours later, a second series of pills should be introduced vaginally. These pills cause the fruit to drift away, so they cause a miscarriage. Minister, this is a simple act, but of course it is still an artificially induced miscarriage, which is very confrontational and often very painful for the woman in question, and certainly not without danger. If this happens at home, how does the succession happen? Can this be done according to the law of 18 October 2018? It says: "The first consultation and treatment takes place in a health care facility, which is an abortion centre or a hospital offering abortion assistance." Do you think it is advisable to do such an operation at home? Won't this open the door to uncontrolled home aborts?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u110	Mr President, Mrs Sneppe, medication-induced home abortion has a very low frequency of complications according to international literature. It is similar in clinical process and possible problems to spontaneous abortion. I'm referring to an article in last year's New England Journal of Medicine. To avoid misunderstandings, this technique is not comparable to the unsafe methods used earlier, prior to the appropriate legal framework. However, medical contact and guidance remain important, both for the prevention of unwanted pregnancies, and for advice on contraception, psychological guidance and to confirm that the medical abortion was complete. In addition to advice on lighter symptoms such as pain, medical supervision should also ensure that the very rare problems can be identified and addressed. This is also required by the law of 15 October 2018. Article 2, 1 (b) of that law provides that the voluntary termination of pregnancy is to be carried out by a doctor under medically sound conditions in a health care institution, to which an information service is attached which takes care of the pregnant woman and informs her in detail, including on her rights, assistance and benefits, as well as on the possibilities for the adoption of the child to be born. The information service will also provide assistance at the request of the doctor or woman and will advise on the means by which it will be able to use to solve the psychological and social problems which have arisen as a result of its situation. The aim of the law is to ensure that any abortion is properly framed by a health care institution. However, for medical reasons, a surgical abortion is always carried out in a health care institution, but a medical abortion in a home situation is allowed to the extent that arrangements have been made to comply with the legal provisions, i.e. supervision of the procedure by a health care institution, the occurrence of a doctor, the follow-up of the patient and specific information given to the patient. As for other medical situations, risk assessment will have to be carried out in corona times, knowing that medical contact is also possible through new communication technologies and can, after predominantly positive experiences, have its own place, complementary to classical medical contact.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u111	Minister, I'm a little afraid of being accompanied by home abortions. You minimize it a little, because international studies would show that home abortions cause little complications. That may be so and a home abortion may also be compared to spontaneous abortion, but a cheerful birth can also be compared to spontaneous birth, although a cheerful birth is much more painful. I suppose that's the case with abortions. I also have my doubts about the first consultation. We recently received the report of the National Committee for Evaluation of Pregnancy Abruptment and it showed that much needs to be discussed. Of course, this can also be done on the telephone, but I doubt that is equally efficient. I have the impression that abortion is being approached as a matter of fact, something that can happen quickly, between the soup and the patts, to say disrespectfully. I think home abortions are really a false signal, and I hope that will not lead to more general, illegal home abortions. You say that this is a phenomenon of before the statutory abortion scheme, but the report of the evaluation committee showed that they are going up again. I hope that this will not promote these practices and hope that the matter will be properly monitored and evaluated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u112	Mr. Chair, Minister, my question is about the difficulty a number of patients have in getting an appointment for an MRI, a magnetic resonance examination, when this examination is very diagnostically effective and it is also necessary for the preparation of useful treatments. The waiting time to get an appointment sometimes reaches three to six months, which is quite damaging for patients. I draw attention here to the fact that, in some hospitals, the MRI service sometimes even works at night. Minister, how do you think you can avoid a deterioration in the situation due to the excessive expectations of many patients in order to benefit from an MRI examination? Is it planned to equip hospitals with additional MRI devices? If so, what is the status of programming? What will be the budgetary impact? Is this also related to a lack of technical staff to conduct this review? Would it be possible, in the long term, to allow access to MRI outside hospital facilities? Indeed, MRI is expected to replace a number of other tests. In doing so, it seems to me that from a budgetary point of view it is necessary to take into account the fact that this examination can replace others that are being carried out today because of a lack of MRI devices. I would add that examinations that are sometimes carried out for lack of access to MRI are often scanner examinations that deliver large doses of x-rays, unlike MRI. How can MRI, which is now frequently indicated, be used as a substitute for other obsolete tests?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u113	Mr President, Mr Bacquelaine, in 2014 and 2018, memoranda of understanding were concluded between the competent authorities for the more rational use of medical imaging examinations. These protocols also include the conditions for the gradual extension of the planned number of MRI devices. Every examination prescribed and performed must be justified. By the publication of the Royal Decree of 9 February 2020 amending the Royal Decree of 29 April 2014 establishing the maximum number of magnetic resonance tomography apparatus capable of being operated, the programming of the NMR has been expanded. The Royal Decree describes the maximum number of NMR devices that can be approved in the territory of each Region. The regional distribution of the 18 additional NMR approvals is as follows: nine additional aircraft for the Flemish Region, seven for the Walloon Region and two for the Brussels-Capital Region. Now that federal programming has been expanded, approvals for new NMR devices are being granted. As you know, the granting of accreditation to hospitals is a community and regional responsibility. It is therefore the federated entities which decide, on the basis of their specific situation, in which establishments the new appliances will be installed. To do so, they follow a procedure which they themselves have defined in complete autonomy. To date, two NMR apparatus whose programming is the responsibility of the Flemish Region have been reported to the national cadastre of medical imaging apparatus. As described in the 2014 Memorandum of Understanding, funding will be provided through the BMF. Since, in the context of the Sixth State Reform, the powers relating to Subpart A3 Investment costs for heavy equipment from the BMF are transferred to the Communities and Regions, they have since autonomously determined which financing is still liquidated through this method via the BMF to be charged with their allocation. The expansion of NMR capacity will increase the accessibility of the NMR and facilitate the transition to the use of TB at the NMR according to the guidelines. It is important to note that today, for urgent examinations, slots remain open in the schedule. This is already a good organizational practice. In practice, an urgent examination may take place, if necessary in a nearby hospital. The Belgian Radiology Society conducted an internal survey of radiologists at the end of 2016 and concluded that the waiting times for non-emergency MRI examinations in our country are between two and six weeks. For non-emergency examinations, an average waiting time of six weeks is a medically justifiable and acceptable standard. It is the responsibility of hospitals to organize the operation of their services and to provide the necessary staff. We do not have specific information about the staff or the time ranges of hospitals. Finally, an MRI cannot be installed or used outside a hospital in Belgium. In order to meet the programming criteria, there is a control policy. The different authorities, each within the limits of their competence, must play a role and cooperate. The National Register of Heavy Medical Imaging Devices is an instrument for the control of devices. An MRI examination is only refundable when performed by a radiologist in a licensed service with a licensed device.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u114	Minister, thank you for your answers. I believe that this six-week delay is very optimistic because in reality it is often more than that. We really need to think about the nomenclature because, today, there are still default choices that are made to the scanner or to other exams rather than to MRI because waiting times are too high. I believe that, gradually, more examinations should be directed to MRI rather than to other techniques that are not always the most appropriate and that are sometimes less effective on the basis of the indications chosen. This debate should take place because the last programming date of 2018 and things are changing very quickly. With radiology companies, it would be useful to provide a floor on the best distribution of examinations according to the technologies used.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u115	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u116	Ms Van Camp, as regards the Health Care Staff Fund, the hospital sector was financed through the hospital budget of 1 January 2021. In view of the late publication of the Act on the year 2021, the work on implementation in the field during the health crisis caused by COVID-19 and the funding that could only be administered from 1 January 2021, the new jobs created prior to the date of 31 October 2020 had to be submitted for information to the local consultation body and all recruitments had to be subject to mandatory local consultation from 31 October 2020. Reporting to local social dialogue for 2020 is part of the agreement between the social partners and is currently being finalised. As regards the measures relating to self-employed home nurses, the RIZIV has sat together with representatives of their professional organisations on the Committee on Nurses' Insurance Agreements. This is a complex matter, which has not yet been put into practice, but which is still being worked on. As regards the consumer cheque, both the collective agreement for the federal health institutions of the private sector and the protocol agreement for the public sector were concluded. Healthcare institutions must now enter into contracts with companies that issue consumer cheques in order to be able to provide them to their staff. As regards the social agreement 2021-2022, as regards hospitals, a budget of EUR 228.9 million for salaries and EUR 91.5 million for the improvement of working conditions for hospitals will be financed on 1 July 2021 in the budget of hospitals' financial resources, on the basis of a revision for the financing of the first semester 2021. For other federal sectors, work on implementation is also ongoing. In federal private sectors where the first phase of IFIC has been applicable since 2018, the transition to a 100% implementation will indeed take place on 1 July 2021. In the federal public sectors in which IFIC has not yet been implemented, the implementation schedule provides for an introduction from the end of 2021, with retroactive effect from 1 July 2021. For the implementation of IFIC, the salary conditions of the nurses were determined exclusively on the basis of the diploma, and the specialization where appropriate. The wage increase proposed by the IFIC berema for an employee is therefore variable and depends on the category in which the function is weighted in the IFIC system and the previous wage conditions established on the basis of diploma and specialization. It should also be noted that for IFIC there was no reference for remuneration per job. For an identical function, the use of the baremas varied between the private and public sectors. In the public sectors, the baremas also differ from one region to another, as well as between institutions in the same region. As a result, it is not possible to answer the question about the increase in salaries. One of the objectives of the implementation of the IFICbarema is to harmonise the remuneration conditions applicable in the federal care sectors. At the beginning of this year, the RIZIV developed a draft royal decree on the incentive premium for self-employed home nurses. At present, the administration, together with my colleagues and my colleague David Clarinval, is examining any changes to that draft, taking into account the opinions received, inter alia, from the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority. Without major obstacles, KB could be taken in a few weeks, after which the measure could be implemented in a short time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u117	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which is also quite technical. I therefore have to look into the details. The premiums, the means for improving the working conditions of the care staff are also fragmented through many different measures. That makes it difficult for people on the ground to know when exactly they can count on the extras that are intended for them. I asked you the question a few months ago. You said then that you wanted the exercise all the way around by the middle of this year. If I hear your update now, you seem to be on schedule. But of course it has been a long time since the announcement of the measure, before the care providers feel anything about it in practice. However, I am pleased that you are well on track and that the commitments are being met to pay contributions both for the care staff in the institutions and for home care. If I understand correctly, the practical effect is in the final phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u118	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, I have instructed my policy cell and the administration to look closely at the resolution on epilepsy. However, the analysis I have asked takes some time, especially given the whole hectic surrounding covid. However, I will give you an update when I have the full analysis. I can give you a few elements already. Within the RIZIV, an agreement has been concluded with the reference centres for refractory epilepsy for more than 20 years. In addition, there is also a cost evaluation under the limited clinical application for the use of deep brain stimulation in certain patients selected in the 4 reference centres. This evaluation will normally end on 30 November 2023, according to the Agreement. The cost analysis is relatively complex and relates only to patients in whom a neurostimulator specifically for DBS has been implemented to treat refractory epilepsy. It may be somewhat frustrating, but the resolution has not really been discussed with the relevant bodies and administrations. I have looked at them with great interest, but I have not yet managed to place them on the agenda. However, I will ask the relevant bodies and administrations to take a close look at the resolution, in view of the possibility of planning it in the activities for 2022 of the College of Medical Directors, in consultation with the Committee on Implants and Public Health. So I hope to get that on the agenda of all the bodies involved next year. At present, however, you will remain somewhat hungry with regard to the drafting of the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic420x.u119	Thank you, Minister, for your honesty. I am glad that you can just say that it has not been included for the time being, but that it is coming and that you will look at the resolution. You will then find that these are very low-threshold questions. Often a resolution asks a great deal, but here we have really limited it, even after having had sessions with experts on the field and patients, to what is really needed. For example, you refer to the reference centres. One of the questions raised by the resolution is that there will be a better referral to these centres, because we can see that treatment is still possible. For example, the rest of the questions concern better awareness and so on. If we get these questions on the agenda, we can really make a difference on the ground with very little resources and commitment for many of those patients who may not have access to treatment today, which is there today. In this way, they could have better access to society and, for example, the labour market, which is really their explicit demand. I would like to follow this up with you until it is placed on the agenda this year or next year.
