ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I have tabled this question for your announcement in the press. I will have to adapt them to the current situation. We could read that you want to expand and automate the social tariff for internet subscribers. The social tariff for fixed internet has been in place for a long time. In theory, about 600,000 people could use it. Today, around 250,000 users enjoy the social rate for the Internet. The rest is not informed or lost in the administration. We are often told this too. It doesn't seem so obvious and that's why you propose to automate and extend it to 700,000 possible users. I will not read the text of the coalition agreement in full. However, it stresses the choice of applying for a social rate either for mobile services or for fixed services. Automation is also emphasised. I had a number of questions about this. Firstly, what is the state of the reform of the social tariff for telecommunications? What does the reform mean? Will the target group be expanded further? How many people would be eligible after automation? Are the figures that were mentioned earlier correct? Secondly, the coalition agreement talks about the choice between mobile and fixed services. Will that choice remain? Earlier, you mentioned that you needed to look at European legislation for this purpose. How's this going? If one opts for a mobile service will this also be automated? Thirdly, which operators would benefit from this reform? Fourthly, we can also read on your website that there will be an automatic indexation. That had not yet happened, although this seems very important to me because the lifespan is increasing year after year. This did not happen between 2005 and 2021. Is it supposed to make up for this? If so, what will this cost? If not, why is that choice made?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u2	Madam Minister, today, elderly people with a limited income, people with a living wage or people with a disability can use the social tariff telecom that allows them to make affordable phone calls or access the Internet. This is crucial because, like energy and water, telecommunications has become a basic requirement and there is also a social tariff for water and energy. More than a year ago, in July 2020, a bill from my colleagues Leen Dierick, Jef Van den Bergh and myself was approved in committee to go to automatic allocation of the social tariff for telecoms, but after that an additional opinion was requested and the new government was formed. You indicated at that time that you would include the automatic allocation in a more global reform. You recently announced that in the media. In any case, we are in favour of this. Our bill shows that we have been wanting to settle this for a long time. It is a good thing that you would now consider whether the social tariff could also be applied to mobile Internet, which was not previously possible by European directives. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. What is the state of play in the reform of the social tariff for telecommunications? What changes will be made? Will you also include mobile telephony in the social tariff? Can we do that for Europe? How many people are entitled to the social tariff for telecommunications today and how many people are effectively using it? After all, there is an important group that does not. What additional target groups will be entitled to the social tariff telecoms? How many people will be entitled to the social rate for Internet and telephony? Can and will you oblige all operators to offer the social tariff for mobile telecoms? Can the allocation also be automated for mobile telecommunications, because it is about the private sector and data exchange? I am thinking of the Data Protection Authority for sensitive data, because data on people's income will have to be linked to determine whether they are entitled to the social rate. How will you do that? How will you try to prevent people who are entitled to the social rate from being prevented by certain operators who feel that they already have sufficient customers at a social rate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u3	First of all, I would like to point out that the text for the reform is in preparation and will still be submitted for public consultation. So it's not final. The main points we like to put on the table are first of all the automation of the social rate for the Internet or fixed telephony if one does not want an Internet subscription. This system should result in an automatic application of the discount charged to the invoice of the rightholder. A person entitled to that social rate will therefore no longer have to apply for it himself. We also want to work on the revision of the categories of beneficiaries. We want to go to family heads with increased intervention, who have an invoice in their own name. This review will result in the total number of potential beneficiaries being around 750 000 people. In addition, I would also like to include an option for social discount on mobile internet. The telecoms law thus introduces the necessary flexibility to impose social charges for mobile services if the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications (BIPT) finds that there is an affordability problem, which is a condition. I have already stated that the European framework will only allow a social tariff to be applied to mobile services if national circumstances demonstrate that it is necessary. At the moment, and the first results of the BIPT report, it appears that the application of the social tariff for mobile services today, according to current European rules, may not be justified. However, I will ask BIPT to follow this up, as the situation can always change. When we do meet the conditions that Europe is imposing on us, this can lead to other possibilities. It is important, however, that we try to introduce the social mobile rate for certain categories of vulnerable people who are experiencing difficulties in communication, such as visually impaired or hearing impaired. This is also happening in other countries. So we have that possibility or opening, even today. Of course, I can only do this within the lines that Europe has set out. It should be noted that citizens will in any case receive a social mobile rate if they meet the conditions for the fixed rate. Internet packs, including those with a mobile component, will also be included. I would add that I will certainly also use indexation, as you asked. This reduction will follow the lifespan and will be linked to the flattened health index. Mrs Depraetere, in your third question you wondered which operators will be affected by all this. It will apply to all operators with a turnover of more than 50 million euros. Under no circumstances can they refuse, even if they feel that they already have enough customers who meet the conditions. To operators with a turnover of less than 50 million euros, we offer the possibility to offer the social tariff voluntarily. They undertake to do so for a period of 5 years. That's the system we have in mind. As has already been said, the texts with these modalities will be in public consultation in the coming weeks. Finally, Mrs Lanjri, concerning your question about how many people are already entitled to it today and how many already use it: the social tariff is currently being granted to 200,000 people. In fact, according to today's criteria, 650,000 should have access to the social tariff. As I said, there will be 750,000 according to the criterion we want to apply. By automatically assigning the rate, we absolutely want everyone who is entitled to it to get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u4	It is only positive that in this way the target group can be considerably expanded and that people no longer have to choose for themselves. For many vulnerable, that is not obvious. So this is really an improvement. I had two further questions to make sure I understood everything correctly. For operators, turnover is the criterion. It is therefore not mandatory for a particular group, probably because otherwise the costs would be too high for them. However, I thought there was already the possibility of using the sectoral fund in that case. Or isn't that true for the smaller players? It would be interesting to hear more about this, because if there is such a possibility, it would of course be logical to implement that obligation. Secondly, you said that you will follow the indexation. Does it or does it not happen with retroactive effect, with a catch-up? Do you want me to ask a new question for the additional answers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u5	If we look at the figures, you will find with me that not 1 in 3 citizens who are entitled to them use that right. It is a good thing that we are expanding the target group, but the measure must not remain empty. If, theoretically, 750,000 people are entitled to it, but we're only going to rise to 250,000, it's not that big of a deal in the end. An automatic allocation is therefore essential. It is important that a lot of people who are having a hard time or who are not getting the ends tied together do not have fixed telephony. Because of the costs and so on, they often only have mobile telephony, and often switch from one operator to another. It is therefore a pity that this will only apply to those who have a fixed plus mobile package. I therefore hope that you will look again at your reforms, insofar as you can justify this to Europe, whether we really can target the target group: people with mobile phones, people with low incomes. Because that's what I hear on the premises: people don't all have the Internet at home or a landline. They are often only dependent on their mobile phones, so they often connect to their computer to go on the internet. I fear that, in a few years' time, we will find that, theoretically, we may want to reach 750,000 people, but in practice, we will only reach half of them. So I hope that's what you want to work on. With regard to the idea of obliging large operators to sell more than EUR 50 million, while for the others it would be voluntary, I am concerned about the privacy of the data. Has that been checked out yet? How are we going to deliver that data to the private operators?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u6	For Mrs Depraetere: that is a suggestion from the sector fund, perhaps in line with your last remark, I cannot just answer that, I have to check. As far as indexing is concerned, as far as I know, we are not going to go back to the past, but to adapt it now and take it with us. But I'd be happy to forward the further technical information to you, by e-mail today. As far as Mrs Lanjri is concerned, as far as your question on automation is concerned, it is indeed intended that people should receive that social rate automatically, so that they do not have to apply for it. Thus, the entire target group will effectively benefit from that rate and no one will fall out of the boat. If we automate it, we also assume that the entire target group will automatically be able to enjoy that social rate and that no one will escape it. As regards the operators and the way in which the data will be exchanged. This is the technical elaboration of the whole story of automation. This is an additional technical problem if one had to choose between fixed or mobile. The BIPT has pointed out to us that there are enough cheap mobile formulas which, according to European rules, cannot be justified in granting a social discount on mobile services. It is mainly the fixed services and the packs that are very expensive. The latter, in particular, require social rates. That is the analysis of BIPT according to European legislation. I can't get out of that for a while. However, if the situation changes, it may be possible to open this up. The difference in operator exchange has to do with the fixed costs of entering the system. We hope that all operators, including those with lower turnover, will enter the system and show their willingness to offer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u7	Mr President, Minister, since 1 July in the Netherlands it has been prohibited to call people on their private numbers for commercial purposes and to do marketing on the telephone from a company or organisation. Also in our country we know the phenomenon in which many people are called with often unwanted marketing calls. There is a partial solution to this, because anyone who does not wish to do so can sign up for a long time on the bell-me-no-more list. That will happen, but there is a very different system for e-mails. Before a company is allowed to send an advertising e-mail, it requires permission, an opt-in, according to GDPR regulations. To call, it's not. There's another system. However, many consumers seem to find that disturbing. This was demonstrated by an experiment through a tool developed by a hobbyist and received with great enthusiasm. Over 700,000 telephone numbers were added to the list in two days. The tool automatically placed you on the bell-me-no-more list. The site was soon taken offline, because apparently there was some discussion about the legal side of the tool. It does show that the issue lives with a lot of consumers. That is why I have two questions. Wouldn't it make more sense to apply the system of e-mail marketing traffic, which works with an opt-in application? What about GDPR rules on marketing calls? Why are they different from other forms of marketing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u8	Mr Depraetere, thank you for your question. You're referring to an incident that was actually a hacking of the do-not-call-me system. A digital tool automatically created consecutive phone numbers, which were linked to wrong email addresses and then automatically added them to the do-not-call melist, without the knowledge of the owners of those phone numbers. As regards the bell-me-no-more list, the e-privacy directive justifies the use of a particular system for certain forms of direct marketing, such as personal telephone calls, whereby subscribers can report that they do not wish to receive those calls, via opt-out. This system does not actually involve financial costs for the subscriber; the companies themselves bear the costs. In Belgium, an opt-out system for voice telephony calls was chosen in accordance with the European Directive. Most Member States, including France, Spain, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Poland, have also opted for such an opt-out system. For more information on this system, I would like to refer to my colleagues Dermagne and De Bleeker, respectively responsible for Economics and Consumer Protection. For your second question, on GDPR, I can inform you that the e-privacy directive is actually a lex specialise. This means that for these specific cases, the e-Privacy Directive takes precedence over the provisions of the GDPR, which lay down the general principles for the processing of personal data. Although Belgium opted for an opt-out system, I do of course understand the frustration of the citizens who are being unwittingly called. In the latest version of the future e-Privacy Regulation, which will replace the current Directive, calls for direct marketing should no longer be anonymous. This means that citizens will be able to see, by means of a specific code or prefix, that it is a marketing call on the telephone number from which they are called. The text is not yet ready and is in a trilogue phase at European level. The negotiations are still ongoing. As long as the text has not yet been adopted at European level, Belgium will obviously not be able to give its opinion on its implementation at Belgian level. As far as the privacy rules themselves are concerned, I am of course free to refer to Mr Mathieu Michel, who has the authority to do so, or to the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u9	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. It's not just happening here, the mail also works with an opt-out system. It is therefore not particularly exceptional. I noticed that people in the Netherlands are making a different choice and that a lot of consumers find these calls very disturbing. An ad leaflet in the mailbox, if one does not have a sticker, is perhaps acceptable, but being called is often very disturbing. I had also asked for figures on the use of that list, but the deadline for replying to that question has not yet expired. I would have liked to know how often that list is used. Maybe it's possible to make the list more public. I suppose it's BIPT working on that. I will also ask your fellow ministers and secretaries of state.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u10	Your question is very topical because we are being bombarded with texts, phishing, smishing and viruses these days. Until now, the resources available to operators to deal with this type of fraudulent text message are rather limited. Currently, mobile operators intercept and stop such fraudulent text messages by temporarily blocking or disabling the mobile numbers that send these SMS messages. They do so on the one hand on the basis of notifications and on the other hand on the basis of firewalls that detect abnormal patterns, for example a user who sends a text message to more than a hundred different numbers in one hour, while on other days they only send three. That's a suspicious pattern and the number gets blocked. There is currently no sophisticated anti-phishing platform that can automatically block numbers. That is why we are now taking the step towards more sophisticated algorithms that not only work reactively and statically but can also anticipate and proactively filter or block messages before reaching the end user. That's the ambition. It is intended that consumers will not notice. As regards your question about subsidies for this, I can tell you that there will be investment in systems to enable automatic screening of both incoming and outgoing text messages. Around EUR 2.3 million of the grant to be spent on the choice, development, implementation and operation of such a system. The participating operators will be responsible for the other half of the costs. The total cost is therefore 4.6 million euros. The choice of the system and the most optimal form to implement it is still being studied. There's gonna be a study that's gonna investigate that. There is no tender yet, but the recruitment procedure for a project manager is already under way. I would also like to add that Flubot as such does not involve phishing, but rather a spread of malware installed in systems that can lead to phishing in later stages. It goes without saying that the antiphishing platform that we have in mind will be more efficient in combating this type of malware than is possible today. As regards your question on proactive screening, I can inform you that the current legal framework does not allow systematic proactive screening of text messages. That is, of course, necessary for such an antiphishing platform. We must provide a legal framework for this. For this reason, a supplement to Article 125 of the Electronic Communications Act is planned for the transposition of the European Code in this area into Belgian legislation, so that we will have a legal basis for this. As regards cooperation between BIPT and operators, I can tell you that there is also cooperation with the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) and, of course, with the banking sector in this type of fraud. The parquet is also involved. In addition to the cooperation between these various actors at national level, international cooperation is of course also important. This type of fraud is often organised internationally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u11	Thank you very much for your comprehensive answer, Madam Secretary. I am glad that steps are being taken forward. The many phishing messages are becoming a real plague. I am an absolute supporter of everything related to the digital, but I notice that it dents confidence when one becomes a victim of a phishing message. I am pleased that extra money is being invested in a proactive approach and that legislation in this area is being addressed. I believe that it is also important to communicate well about it and to sensitise it. If this happens, we must be able to switch quickly and inform people as best we can. Cooperation is very important in this area, including at international level. I think it is important to involve the police in this. Anyone who becomes a victim will report that, but I myself have experienced that one of my family went to the local police but that he didn't really know what to do, while the police is the first point of contact. I think this is something to take.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u12	We have come to the end of this questioning session. I'll see you at 3:30 for questions to Minister Dermagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a lot of questions on the agenda since the summer, so let us try to work efficiently and keep an eye on time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u14	Mr President, for my two questions, I would like to refer to the written text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u15	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u16	Mr. Chair, Minister, I will try to be quick and effective. Minister, as you know, the floods hit the Urthe and Vesdre valleys hard with disastrous consequences for a range of services to the population. In this context, while the priority should be the rapid restoration of these services, we have seen once again the cynicism of BNP Paribas. Two decisions were taken during this post-flood period by the banking group. On the one hand, BNP has decided to speed up the closure of its agency in Theux, a municipality badly affected by the floods by redirecting its customers to neighbouring municipalities. On the other hand, BNP does not intend to replace the only distributor of Ensival, far from the centre of Verviers, which was also hit hard by these floods. These are cynical decisions that run counter to the interests of citizens. Moreover, it is clearly a double penalty for the latter. The inhabitants of Theux and Ensival, as well as the traders who are taking up their activities in these areas, need more than ever cash and local banking services. This is all the more necessary since today, the elderly and the disadvantaged people of these communes have lost their vehicles and rely on the solidarity of neighbours, associations, but also of the army and social services to move. In this context, as in the case of the shortage organised by the Batopin consortium, we need regulation of the sector. Mr Minister, is a moratorium on the closure of banking services possible in the affected areas, which is a minimum for publicly-owned banks? Have you had any exchanges with BNP Paribas to discuss the case of the agency of Theux and the distributor of Ensival? Did you assess the damage to banking services in the affected areas and the attitude of banks to emergencies on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u17	Mr President, Minister, I have tried to put together a number of questions. First of all, I wanted to talk about the universal banking charter. I will leave out my introduction and go straight to the questions. Firstly, how was this announced to the general public because it has been introduced since 19 July? How will this be published further? How did the banks roll this out? Was this only mentioned on their website or went wider? Secondly, do you have any idea how many people have already switched to that universal banking service? By whom and how is this controlled? I refer to a similar appointment made by former Minister Freya Van den Bossche in 2003. At that time it appeared quite quickly that this was not respected by the banks. How can this be checked? Do banks get called up if they don't respect this? A second question was about a study of the Prize Observatory. You once announced in an opinion that you would request a study on this subject. It was first said that the study could be expected in April. Can this study be made public? What are the main conclusions? I also wondered whether the universal banking service was aligned with the results of that study. What additional measures might be needed? A third question was about the spread of ATMs. You have already replied more or less in plenary. I will not repeat this. However, my point remains that people also need a physical bank office to manage their money. To what extent are you also involved in this rollout. Does the government know where ATMs go? We know the number, but do we also know where these devices will be placed? Do you have an overview of that? The universal banking service also explicitly stipulates that it should cover withdrawals and transactions at its own bank. Will the Batopin project contradict the newly tested universal banking service? Will the network have to pay for this? The independent vending machines network and one vending machine per municipality at bpost can be used to collect cash. However, a lot of people rely on a bank office. The charter is a very interesting and very good work from you. I would like to thank you for that, Minister. But that charter will of course not make much sense if the physical banking points continue to disappear massively. I wonder if there's any more talk about that? Do you have any idea of the final goal of the banking sector? The number of banking points continues to fall sharply. I don't have a lot of eyes on where it's gonna stop. I have two brief questions for you. I put in a question about credit cards. A new policy is being pursued in which banks ask no longer to refer to the customer service telephone number, so that people would solve the problems related to their credit card via digital means. I find that remarkable, especially after this whole discussion. Did you know about that? How does that fit into the whole charter story? Finally, we now have the universal banking service and basic services, but I am struck by the many stories that we hear that banks clearly go along with the trend to count effectively everything that is not included. Every service that is not provided by default in basic services, for example when people want to invest some savings, costs are immediately charged. I wonder whether the agreements that have been made will suffice. What's your vision on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u18	Minister, the basic banking service for enterprises should have entered into force six months ago. Only it turned out that you and your administration hadn't prepared the royal decrees to allow that. I understand those royal decisions are now with the Council of State. I would like to hear from you how far this is going. Can you confirm that you are doing everything you can to bring the law into force as soon as possible? After all, more and more companies and sectors are being banned. A few weeks ago, we read in the newspaper that, for example, the accounts of Belgians who emigrate abroad, outside the European Union, but who still have a bank account or a case in Belgium, are being closed. The problem that started with just the diamond sector has now become a much bigger problem, with dozens of sectors. What I miss with you is a sense of urgency, that urgency to make quick work of it. I have heard you say that you would like to look at the interbank rates if the banks would continue to reduce the number of ATMs. This is important for the consumer, but we must not leave businesses in the cold either. Can you also make the commitment you make to consumers for our companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u19	Minister, ladies and gentlemen have already referred to the universal banking service on which the federal government reached agreement in July with a number of banks for customers who cannot bank online. Something had to happen. However, there are still a number of concerns. It has been said that this service may cost up to EUR 5 per month, which amounts to EUR 60 per year, which is not very little. For this price, customers would be able to obtain a debit card at least 24 times free of charge from their own bank's vending machine, carry out at least 60 manual operations at the counter and print account extracts in the bank's office. That charter is valid for three years and ends in 2024. I was therefore wondering, Minister. You say in your press release that you are trying to protect a vulnerable group of people by offering a feasible and transparent tariff. I understand that, but to what extent do you believe that EUR 60 is a viable card for that vulnerable group? And how do you reconcile that with the fact that there is a trend towards fewer and fewer vending machines and, above all, bank offices in the street, where it is possible to print bank extracts, carry out manual transactions and the like? Because when there are no more counters, that universal banking service is of particular use to people. I would also like to point out that many bank offices, such as BNP Paribas Fortis, have already removed a lot of extract printers in recent months, which means that even that basic service or universal service can no longer be honored. I would also like to know why the charter ends in June 2024. Because if we have to work systematically with extensions afterwards, we may run the risk that banks, or you as a government, will put the knife to our throats to make the services even more expensive in the end. My second question concerns the story of the ATMs themselves. I know that this was the subject of a debate in plenary last week. That debate did not reassure me entirely. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that in the coming years a lot of people are at risk of falling out of the boat. I do know that the new management agreement with Bpost stipulates that there must be a bank machine in every municipality. But not every municipality has a post office or a station or a shopping mall where bpost can provide that possibility. This concern was expressed last week, otherwise the debate would not have taken place in plenary. I was therefore wondering, in view of this concern, to what extent you had a discussion with the various stakeholders of both projects, Mr Batopin and Mr Jofico. And also how you see that 5 km spread feasible for the elderly, if you test it against the universal banking service we were just talking about. Isn't there a threat of falling out of the boat? Are you aware, as a minister, that it will not be so obvious for bpost to provide a bank machine in every municipality?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u20	Mr Minister, I would like to go back to an important announcement you made last July on the establishment of a "universal banking service" – an essential measure for us Socialists. Indeed, you have negotiated for months with the banking sector to find a solution to what we have been denouncing for years: the increase in bank charges and the phenomenon of exclusion that affects those who, for one reason or another, do not have access to the online applications offered by the banks. In a few years, the banks have closed thousands of agencies – including two this summer on the side of La Louvière, one in Strépy-Bracquegnies and the other in Haine-Saint-Pierre – and, at the same time, have asked us to undertake several online banking operations ourselves. For many of us, it allows access to accounts 24 hours a day and 7 days a week and thus saves time. However, this digitisation also produces many left behind: those who do not have a computer or internet at home or whose digital skills are insufficient - in particular, our seniors, low-skilled people or job seekers. For these people, digitization does not mean emancipation, but rather loss of financial autonomy, longer travel and higher costs for their operations. By forcing banks to offer these people a range of manual or counter operations, at a reasonable cost, you are acting on their purchasing power, so that they will also be able to regain financial autonomy. Minister, can you detail the measures contained in the Charter that was signed with the banking sector? What will be the next steps in your efforts to promote access for all to quality banking services?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u21	Minister, in Belgium, not everyone can open a bank account. This is the case for sex workers. The media reported last month on the example of an escort girl who was denied access to an account at Belfius. This is called derisking: it is for a bank to refuse certain customers because of potential risks of money laundering and fraud. However, anyone is supposed to be innocent, and it is not because you work in the sex sector that you are necessarily someone who launders money. Derisking can therefore prove to be discriminatory. My political group has fought hard in recent decades to combat bank exclusion. In the early 2000s, there were about 40,000 people (young unemployed, minimally unemployed, low-skilled) who were denied access to an account and banking services. And it was to remedy this situation that the PS had fought to put in place the Basic Banking for Consumers Act 2003. At the beginning of this legislature, we had a whole debate – and indeed a law was passed – to extend this basic banking service to businesses. I must say that at the outset my group was sceptical, because, in parliamentary work, the scope of the problem was limited to the diamond sector. But today I have the feeling that the practice of derisking tends to become more widespread: the prostitution sector, we are also talking about some NGOs... Minister, is there any form of resurgence of derisking practices by banks? The Basic Banking Service for Enterprises Act calls for an implementing order to enter into full force. Can you tell me about the status of this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u22	Minister, the Batopin project of the four large banks in Belgium was discussed a lot last week. This project ensures that 95% of Belgians will have a distributor less than 5 kilometres away from home. This may not seem a lot, but today 60% of the population must be up to one kilometre before finding one. The number of distributors keeps falling: there were more than 8,300 in 2010, there are 6,000 today and there will be more than 2,400 if you accept this project. Finality and Test Purchases showed their dissatisfaction. You also indicated that this project was particularly worrying and insufficient while indicating that you would question Batopin and Febelfin, as the project did not meet your expectations. Is it not necessary to impose binding measures rather than bet on questioning to ensure that these large banks meet the needs of the Belgian population as a whole? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u23	Mr President, Minister, the deadline for the basic banking service was 1 May. How are we doing today? What's the M.O.? Who has already spoken to you and who hasn't? What are we waiting for? When can the law be in force? Do the 24 free collections at the own bank, as agreed in the universal banking charter, also fit in the story of Batopin? As far as ATMs are concerned, we hear the same concern everywhere. How can we force the banks to achieve a proper result for the population in this area? What is your modus operandi? How do you hear the other stakeholders? What levers does the government have? Please do not forget the consumers, but neither do the entrepreneurs. They cannot be meant to become money couriers instead of others.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u24	Anyone else want to join us?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u25	Mr. President, good morning to everyone. Thank you for your many questions and questions on this important topic. I would like to begin my speech with the question of floods. You have mentioned areas that have been particularly affected by these floods. They are not the only ones but, indeed, they are probably the ones that have been hardest hit. These floods have caused very heavy loss of life and considerable damage to property. It is therefore imperative that every effort be made to enable affected persons to recover as quickly as possible from this ordeal. Like families and businesses, banking agencies have been affected by floods to varying degrees. You have cited some examples. At present, unfortunately, I do not have accurate data on the banking agencies affected by these floods throughout Walloon and Belgian territory. However, I appreciate the importance of access to banking services, especially for the most vulnerable consumers. As you know, discussions with the banking sector are therefore under way in order to explore all possible options to ensure that the entire population has access to cash and that extracts of account are made available in the affected areas. I sent a letter to Febelfin and BNP, which you were quoting at the moment, asking them to reopen as soon as possible the bank agencies closed because of the floods. However, a moratorium on the closure of banking services is not currently envisaged. Several of you have asked me questions about the delicate subject of basic banking service to businesses. As you know, the law of 8 November 2020 introduced the basic banking service to businesses. The aim of this law is that every company will be able to have a payment account in order to carry out the payment transactions necessary for its activities and thus to participate in economic life. In particular, it provides that after three refusals to open a bank account, the company may apply to the Chamber of the Basic Banking Service, which may appoint a provider of banking services, if it appears that the rejection by the banks is not properly justified. In order to give full effect to this law, an implementing order must be adopted. To this end, a working group has been established. It is composed of members of the SPF Economy, the National Bank of Belgium, the Financial Information Processing Unit and a representative of the SPF Finance. The aim is to find a balance in the drafting of this implementing decree. It is indeed essential to quickly propose a solution to companies in difficulty. But it is also the responsibility of the authorities to ensure compliance of the implementing order with the anti-money-laundering legislation. The adoption and implementation of this decree also requires consultation with a wide range of stakeholders. Consultations were therefore held to ascertain the positions of the main stakeholders and to resolve any problems that may arise. Compliance with the procedure should also be ensured. Thus, the draft decree was submitted to the opinion of the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority as it contains several provisions for the processing of personal data, some of which may be considered sensitive. In its opinion delivered on 6 September last, the Council of State states that a legislative amendment is necessary in order to bring the Act of 8 November 2020 into line with the General Data Protection Regulation. Indeed, the opinion of the Council of State shows that the law of 8 November 2020 is not executable in its current version. The law must therefore be amended in order to implement the basic banking service for enterprises. The draft text is being prepared. I also confirm that I am making every effort to be able to implement this essential scheme for businesses and especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, I have also been informed, Mr. Prévot, of de-risking practices, more for diplomatic missions and for certain other professions. You have cited a few examples. I have therefore asked my administration to analyse the desirability of extending the scope of the law to respond to these de-risking practices implemented by a number of banking operators. My priority is to amend the law of 8 November 2020 and its implementing decree taking into account the advice of the Council of State. Once the law has been amended, the necessary steps will be taken to ensure that the right to basic banking service for businesses can be implemented as quickly as possible. Until then, companies that are denied a bank account can call on the Banking Ombudsman. The Umbudsfin is in fact competent to deal with complaints from independents and companies concerning, in particular, the basic banking service for enterprises. Let me now answer the question about the development of electronic payments. As you know, my colleague, the Minister of Finance, and I are preparing a bill to impose on businesses the obligation to offer consumers an electronic payment alongside the cash payment, as is provided for in the government agreement. This obligation is important in the fight against tax fraud in particular. I now turn to the transparency of bank charges for the consumer, because banks decide independently on the costs they charge their customers. This is part of their own trade policies, but these costs must be communicated periodically, proactively and transparently. The obligations of transparency and information are strictly regulated by our legislation following the transposition of a European directive on payment accounts. My administration has not received any complaints about this at the moment. The notifications we have received over the past few years relate rather to complaints about price changes...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... My administration therefore has no specific statistics on the articles on transparency and information obligations. Together with the Minister of Finance, the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection and the banking sector, I have drawn up a charter. It contains a number of commitments to improve access to banking services and to strengthen consumer protection. The sector is mainly committed to correctly applying the Payment Accounts Directive and thus to better informing consumers about banking services and charges. This will be done through promoting and improving tools for comparing offers and prices of banks, such as Wikifin, and through collaboration between different financial institutions. There are also plans to promote more the interbank mobility service. For example, consumers will be better aware of the possibility of changing banks. In order to further investigate the cost transparency, I have indeed requested a study from the FPS Economy. This is an analysis of the cost of a current account and a number of individual banking services between 2016 and 2021. The main conclusions are as follows: First of all, the cost of a current account has increased over the last four years. This applies to the four user profiles examined, being an electronic user, with or without a credit card and a traditional user, with or without a credit card. The increase was particularly significant in the last year, with an increase of 12.2%. For traditional users without a credit card, the price of a current account has increased less than for users with a credit card. Those who opt for digital transactions, such as an electronic user without a credit card, saw the price increase less than a traditional user without a credit card, who opts for manual transactions, such as paper transfers. Secondly, the annual average increase in the cost of a current account is rather limited. It varies between 0.71 and 2.58 euros depending on the user's profile. Third, the offer of current accounts is very diverse, with weighted average prices on 1 January 2021 varying between 26 and 58 euros. The lowest prices are for users who do not have a credit card. Finally, the price of a number of individual banking services has generally increased. This applies to manual operations such as cash retrieval at the counter and paper transfers, cash retrieval at the bank's vending machine, a credit card, and the replacement of a debit or credit card. With regard to the universal banking service, I will continue my replies, which take into account the results of this study by my administration. That was one of your questions, Mrs. Depraetere. The digitalisation of banking services is synonymous with progress in our modern world. Safe and effective, this significant progress attracts many citizens while excluding others, because the digital divide is indeed real, unfortunately. Indeed, many people feel excluded from this new mode of operation. Galloping digitalization is often experienced as a source of stress and isolation among the most vulnerable, especially for seniors who feel that they are dispossessed of the right to a payment account at a reasonable cost. It was therefore necessary to act not to aggravate this fracture. Faced with this problem of digitalising banking services, I and my colleagues Vincent Van Peteghem and Eva De Bleeker have negotiated with the banking sector the creation of this universal banking service. In concrete terms, the banking service takes the form of a package offered at a maximum price of 60 euros per year, 5 euros per month. This package gives access to a range of banking transactions such as a minimum of 24 free cash withdrawals per year to the ticket distributor of your own bank, a minimum of 60 manual transactions per year at the bank's counter, a debit card, free printing of paper account statements to the bank agency, monthly withdrawal at the counter, or by post once a month, at a reasonable rate. For the account extracts, the current formulas are retained and the price can no longer increase. The sending of the statements of account is an item that will no longer be able to increase during the duration of the charter. Finally, the service includes the possibility to house free bills such as energy, water, telecoms and to enter permanent orders free of charge, for example for the payment of rent or the repayment of a mortgage. Currently, apart from the number of transactions included in each package and package, the consumer is charged between 1.5 and 2 euros per additional transaction. We have limited this amount to one euro in the universal banking service. Some banks provide an age condition: 60 or 70 years to have a more advantageous price for manual operations. Our universal banking service does not set an age limit and everyone can benefit from it independently of this criterion. The annex to the charter, which includes the service price for each bank and what it contains, will be updated annually. People will therefore know exactly what the service must contain and its price for each bank. In addition to press releases announcing the creation of this universal banking service, Febelfin has also published on its website questions and answers on the universal banking service, with additional information for the benefit of consumers. Finally, the charter stipulates that the banks concerned will have to make this service known on their website and in their agencies. The SPF Economy will of course monitor compliance with the charter. An updated list of banks offering the universal banking service will be published on the SPF Economy website and banks have until 1 January 2022 to include this service in their offer. For this reason, unfortunately, I cannot provide precise information on the number of people who will change banks following its entry into force. This universal service is therefore an essential step towards better regulation of the banking sector, but it will not solve all the problems. My administration and some associations have informed me that consumers who are more vulnerable to new technologies are having difficulties accessing banking services. Of course, it is essential for everyone to have guaranteed access to the various payment terminals. It is important to ensure that technological advances benefit everyone, including citizens with disabilities. To that end, I instructed my administration to examine the situation and then determine the best possible solutions with the various stakeholders. I would also like to highlight the existence of Directive 2019/882 on accessibility requirements for products and services, including financial and banking services. The target audiences include persons with disabilities and the elderly. Member States must transpose the Directive before 28 June 2022. The provisions will apply from 28 June 2025. The transposition work is ongoing within the various competent authorities. Now I would like to address the broader issue of bank accessibility. The question of the presence of distributors must be linked to the question of the proximity and accessibility of banking services. We know that the number of agencies is decreasing. It is therefore important to ensure that citizens can continue to benefit from close proximity to these services. As the problem of the disappearance of ATMs has been known in recent years, some solutions have already begun to be implemented and are in the process of being improved. It is in this sense that the seventh bpost management contract has been concluded and will be accompanied, for the first time, by a charter of corporate social responsibility. The bpost company undertakes to make available to consumers at least 350 ATMs and at least one such machine in the municipalities where no other mechanism is available. The National Bank of Belgium is developing a model that will continuously assess the availability of distributors and evaluate in particular the Batopin and Jofico project that you all know. The Batopin project is particularly disturbing. At the moment, the plans guarantee that not every Belgian has easy access to a bank machine. That's problematic. I said that in plenary last week. My concern is confirmed by the figures and data provided by the NBB in the framework of the National Retail Payments Committee working group. It is clear that the Batopin project will lead to a reduction in the number of ATMs in the country. As I indicated last Thursday in the House, Batopin tabled a new draft in September following my negative reaction to their foreground. There have been slight improvements between this project and the one proposed to me last June. This is a first step, but it is an insufficient step. This project therefore needs to be further improved. It is essential to ensure that every citizen has access to financial services. Together with my colleagues Vincent Van Quickenborne and Eva De Bleeker I interviewed Batopin, Jofico and Febelfin. A letter was also sent to the Governor of the NBB. In so doing, I am instructing him to analyse any increase in interbank rates. Banks have to pay interbank fees when their customers withdraw money from another institution's ATM. The higher these fees, the more banks are encouraged to have an extensive network of ATMs. I would therefore like to analyse the advisability of regulating and strengthening the interbank commission in order to curb the reduction in the number of distributors. This incentive system will reward banks with a network of distributors and penalize other banks. However, this increase should not, of course, be passed on to customers, whether they are private customers or businesses. I have therefore asked the BNB to analyse this question in order to determine whether this solution is the best and what the consequences may be. As I was able to say in plenary on Thursday, I also learned that the KBC bank was planning to charge the cash withdrawals to Batopin distributors while it is a member of this network. I was particularly shocked. I immediately reacted to the KBC and the Febelfin to denounce this fact and ask for explanations. This is in fact contrary to the charter on universal banking and the gentlemen's agreement concluded by the banks, which provides for 24 free withdrawals per year in the customer's bank or in its network. By extension, it means the Batopin or Jofico network, in which a banking institution would participate as a distributor member of the network. This is an essential element for me. It is essential that banks respect both the laws, their commitments and their customers, whether they are private or professional customers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for these answers. Let's get back to the replicas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. We approved the basic banking service almost a year ago. First it would be okay by May 1st, then by autumn. It is now autumn, and now we hear that there is still a need to change the law. To be honest, I find it rather odd. The Members who attended the discussions last year know that we have asked for a huge number of opinions from the Council of State. We even asked for a legal note from the Chamber. On the basis of these opinions, the legislative proposal has always been amended. I am curious to see what changes are being made. I hope, of course, that the objective and spirit of the law will be preserved. I also hope that this amendment can be dealt with here soon and that it will not become a year old before the law can enter into force effectively. In the end, a lot of companies are waiting for it. The water is on their lips. As far as ATMs are concerned, we had an exchange of views on this last week. I think we share the same concern. We are more concerned about the project of the four major banks. I am pleased that you have said that the project is insufficient for you, too, and that you have sent a letter to the governor of the National Bank about it. I'm curious to hear the answer. I hope that we will soon be able to discuss it in this committee. Meanwhile, there is still some concern, especially among the less mobile people, both about the accessibility and affordability of our banking services. The last word has certainly not yet been mentioned, but I thank you for the effort you have made with your colleagues in this area. We will be able to continue this debate at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u28	Mr President, Mr Minister, I thank you for responding to this potpourri concerning banking services, banks, terminals and all the questions that oscillated around the banking issue. Indeed, when they are in the sun, the new terminals are illegible to people who, like me, have undergone several operations in the eyes. I therefore look forward to the implementation of the European directive which you mentioned and which I did not have time to note. But I will find it in the committee's report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u29	Mr Vicar, in memory, this is Directive 2019/882
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u30	Memory! Bravo!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u31	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your specific answers to this generic debate. I am pleased that you have sent a letter to Febelfin and BNP Paribas concerning the agency of Theux and the distributor of Ensival. I think that is indeed the least of all! With regard to the debate on banking distributors and their distribution, you adopted a position last week combining creativity, through the mail you sent to the National Bank, and combativeness, with the will to move forward on this issue to curb the disappearance of banking distributors. The flood dossier is specific, but it deserves the same creativity and combativity. We owe it to the citizens who are now victims of double punishment. I invite you to continue your reflection with your partners, the National Bank and Febelfin to broaden the range of tools aimed at banks leaving these disaster-stricken regions. We must think of punishing them severely in relation to this attitude. I also thank you for recalling the bpost management contract, which is public and online. This seventh management contract guarantees the installation of distributors where there is no longer a renewed annual capacity and a guaranteed budget. Some municipalities affected by the floods that Hamoir will benefit from, among other things, these provisions. Bpost takes his share of responsibilities, but she cannot be the only one to do so. Indeed, there is also talk of the societal responsibility of banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u32	Mr President, Minister, the study's conclusion is the same: the traditional user is not involved in digitisation and still has a credit card, so it is often more vulnerable. He is the victim of the price increases of the past period. This has been demonstrated once again. With the achievements of the past year, we are taking a big step forward. The trend is to pay more for less service. The part 'pay more' is partly solved, but the part 'less service' is much more difficult, also because we have little control over the banks that often operate from abroad. I thank you for your commitment and close follow-up by writing to the banks and continuing to remind them of the importance of their services to our consumers and businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u33	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. I promise you to stand by, and we'll be at your side. The cynicism of banks has limits. When they were interviewed about tax evasion or tax evasion, they had never done anything, it was always before, but now it was better. That's enough! I worked as an independent in the banking sector. It's an environment I know very well. A few years ago, we talked about lemon pressed for the communes. I think that we are reaching the limit of what is tolerable to public authorities. As far as my municipality is concerned, I have a bpost commitment for an installation. I am delighted that the public service is coming to make up for this. But we can't let it happen! We will be at your side to support this approach, which aims to provide a service to the population. We cannot at the same time develop everything that is electronic and not make electronic systems available to people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u34	I agree with Mrs Dierick. Together with a broad coalition, last year in Parliament we brought the law on the basic banking service for companies to a successful conclusion. It is a pity, therefore, that we now have to learn, at the very end of the journey, that there are still a number of legal problems. Of course, we respect the opinion of the Council of State that a legislative amendment is needed. However, once again, I miss a sense of urgency, which you do have for the banks when it comes to cash collection by consumers at the vending machines. As a minister, you have moral authority and authority. You can slap on the table, and so do you when it comes to picking up cash and other problems. Now I ask for the same commitment from you as banks for businesses, where more and more sectors are experiencing difficulties. On the one hand, I expect work to be done on the amendment of the bill as soon as possible, and on the other hand, I would like you to make it clear to the banks that this cannot be done and that a solution must be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u35	I have heard BNP Paribas Fortis mentioned a few times, perhaps the champion in reducing service. Earlier we saw it with the entrepreneurs, who in the middle of the coronapandemic, just at a time when they need their bank, are forced to arrange their business by telephone, via a call centre. This time it is the turn of individuals: offices, printers, vending machines and the like disappear for them. Nowadays, they've even become too lazy to meet in the bank office if you'd like to talk about financing, for example. That evolution is indicative. Sharing concerns is one thing, sending a letter is another, but that obviously does not solve the problem. I can only hope that you, as the competent minister, will assume your responsibility. Indeed, banking cannot in future be based solely on online services or the telephone. People pay less and less for their banking business, but they get less and less service instead. First, a charter is concluded with the banks to protect vulnerable groups and then we see that the number of ATMs becomes so regrettable that this protection cannot be honoured. I remember, moreover, that members of the PS have tabled a legislative proposal in committee. Probably it won't be on the agenda anymore, but at that time they wanted to go far beyond the Batopin project. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to clarify the following very briefly. In 2008, we helped or saved the banks from bankruptcy. In 2020 and 2021, corona made them rich in the various loans they were allowed to conclude with government guarantees. In any case, I will never accept that old people have to walk five kilometres with a rollator, to be able to pick up money from a vending machine or to be helped at a counter or to bring in a bank transfer form. Let that be the practice of us, Members of Parliament, to ensure that they never fall out of the boat.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u36	Mr President, I thank the Minister for all the solutions that have been proposed. I know that he is attentive to all of this and I look forward to it. I will not fail to relay this answer on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u37	Mr President, you know that my connection is still unstable and I see that you do not understand me well. I thank the minister, although I have not been able to hear his response as a whole. I will not fail to read the full report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u38	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer. Nevertheless, there are many small traders who are concerned about the disappearance of distributors and the decrease in cash payments. This will certainly be another blow for these small independents. We have taken note of your appreciation of this project as worrying and problematic. But what citizens expect is actions rather than an arrest or a letter to the National Bank. From the beginning, you have been relying on dialogue and negotiation with banks. But the failure of the strategy of consultation should be noted. I think it is time to legislate and impose binding standards so that banks provide quality service to citizens and not dismantle the network to the detriment of consumers. Finally, I believe that the Belgian State has a leverage as a shareholder of Belfius. Could this not put pressure on the Batopin project rather than acting as a passive shareholder?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. The most important message is that negotiations are progressing. Perhaps, since it is a common concern, it is interesting to discuss the issue in Parliament together with Febelfin. If you don't make any progress, we certainly want to make it work with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u40	Mr President, Mr Minister, as you know recently, it is clear that the pressure is rising to bring the economic world in general but certainly also the big companies in the efforts to decarbonize the economy. As an environmentalist, I am delighted. A recent judgment against Shell in the Netherlands condemned the tanker to reduce its CO2 emissions by 45% by 2030. The CEO of the BlackRock Investment Fund – very little known for having a social and environmental philosophy – urges companies to contribute to the emergence of a carbon-neutral economy every year. Activist funds are also beginning to demand that companies make efforts for the climate. Finally, the proposal for a directive adopted last April by the European Commission and currently under discussion on non-financial information provides for the obligation of companies with more than 250 employees to publish the detailed figures of their programmes from 2024 onwards. For Belgium, as Echo revealed a while ago – my question was before the summer break – the Finn agency scrutinized the communications of the fifty-five largest companies by turnover, focusing on their 2020 environmental reports. As a result of the races, 17 of them reveal their CO2 footprint, detail their direct and indirect emissions, announce reduction targets, and take initiatives or commitments. Of these, thirteen listed companies are listed on the stock exchange. In addition to these good students, another nineteen provide more or less accurate indicators of their emissions. But nineteen, or three out of ten, are missing information: it is impossible to know how much emissions they generate. In our view, it is far too little. Listed companies already have strict reporting obligations, but there is no obligation to publish a carbon balance in Belgium today, apart from companies subject to European ETS standards. Do you support such a carbon balance for large companies (over 500 employees) in Belgium, as is the case in other neighbouring countries, for example France and the United Kingdom? It seems to us that this step is important to take. Belgium must be able to be in the right pupils of the European class. We must therefore not wait any longer and be able to move towards such climate legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u41	Thank you, Mr. Vanden Burre, for your question. I will answer you very quickly and very directly: yes, I am indeed in favour of setting up a carbon balance for all large companies in Belgium. As you mentioned, such an obligation already exists in the context of the reporting of undertakings which are subject to Directive 2014/95 NFRD, non-financial reporting directive, i.e. financial institutions, insurance undertakings and listed companies. On the basis of the 2019 accounts, the FSMA found that three-quarters of the audited undertakings published such a balance sheet; this check concerns the undertakings covered by the NFRD Directive. All the companies concerned must comply and publish a carbon balance. However, when the proposed CSRD, corporate sustainability reporting directive, dated 21 April 2021, is adopted and transposed, the obligation to publish a carbon balance sheet should be extended to all large and small listed companies. As part of the negotiation of this proposal for a directive, my administration and I plead not only for a carbon balance, but also for demanding audit obligations. I believe that you will be able to count on your support for this debate and this fight, and to bring this reporting obligation to a successful conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u42	Thank you very much for your answer, which is indeed positive. For our part, we also tabled a bill a few years ago, which had been partly debated and partly voted before the current Vivaldi government was formed. We were somewhat hungry because we would have liked to go to the end of the road. I am very positive about the fact that you wanted to put it in place. I did not remember the precise timing but I will find it in the answer. This is really fundamental, because beyond numbers and accounting, emissions cannot be reduced if they are not measured. What you don't measure, you don't know how to improve it; the goal is that. Of course, it is not a matter of accounting to account for. It is necessary to be able to put a figure on industrial and economic activities in terms of CO2 in order to be able to reduce emissions and move towards a low-carbon economy. This is obviously a major objective for us. I was going to add "for the years to come", but I think that we must now go towards the next month, because the urgency is felt every day; thank you for your voluntarism, Minister. Indeed, we will allow ourselves, on this and other matters, to push you very hard in the back.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u43	Does Belgian legislation already prohibit the entry into our market of goods derived from forced labour? Does the Belgian Penal Code already criminalize (as in France or the Netherlands) the slavery practices of Belgian companies operating abroad, such as through forced labour chains in China? According to the federal administration, what are the links between private clothing companies in Belgium and forced Uighur labour in Xinjiang or the rest of China? Which Belgian companies produce / cause to be produced (through subsidiaries, suppliers or subcontractors) their property or part of their property in factories using forced labour by the Uighurs? Have you ever investigated or are you going to launch investigations to combat the importation of products from Uighurs forced labour into China? To the knowledge of the Belgian government, which products sold on the Belgian market have been produced, or incorporate components / raw materials that have been produced under forced labour conditions in China? What types of sanctions are possible against the companies concerned and to what extent are they possible? Do we have binding legislation against the use of forced labour by Uighurs in China by private companies present in Belgium? For example, has Belgium already (as in the USA) refused to enter the Belgian market for products from forced labour (whether from China or elsewhere)? Following the resolution adopted on 8 July 2021 in plenary recognizing crimes against humanity against the Uighurs, does the Belgian government envisage legal actions and criminal proceedings, as in France, to highlight the role played by multinational companies in the serious violations committed against the Uighurs in China? Are you going to ask Belgian private sector actors to carry out independent checks on respect for human rights throughout the supply chain in order to ensure transparency and knowledge of the entire production chain and, if necessary, to stop doing business with partners directly or indirectly associated with human rights violations? At its State of the Union, Ursula von der Leyen also proposed that the sale of forced labour products in the EU should be prohibited, which could relate to Chinese production involving the Muslim minority. Is this not already the case in Belgium? What additional measures do you think could/should be taken to strengthen the ban on products from forced labour in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u44	I will answer in both languages, the answer being addressed to both Mrs Van Hoof and Mr Cogolati. The President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, announced on 15 September in her state of the Union that the Commission intends to ban products produced with forced labour from the European market. The European Commission has already proposed this summer to help companies tackle forced labour in the supply chain. Further steps forward are needed. The European Commission should adopt a proposal for a directive on corporate responsibility in relation to human rights, labour rights and environmental standards. Belgium supported this initiative on 3 February 2021 during the public consultation organised by the European Commission. On 24 September, I wrote to the European Commissioner, Mr Didier Reynders, asking for the proposed directive to be adopted as soon as possible. However, the fact that a proposal for a directive has been announced on this subject does not mean, as far as I am concerned, that we should not do our work at national level. On 20 September, I expressed my views on this by letter to Parliament. I have therefore expressed my full support to Parliament, which is currently considering a bill of 2 April 2021 on this subject. As you know, this proposal includes an extended liability regime for failure to comply with the duty of vigilance throughout the value chain. In the meantime, in Belgium, unlike Germany, Holland and France, to take only the neighbouring countries, there is no obligation to be vigilant or to ensure that the whole value chain meets certain criteria. As a result, the federal government has no control and data. Companies themselves are not necessarily aware of the practices of their suppliers and subcontractors and do not have a specific obligation to do so. In this context, it is not possible to prosecute, impose sanctions or seek redress. I regret this and that is why an amendment to the current legal framework is a vital task.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course we can only join you. I think it's finally very serious that we don't have data, that we can't control our supply chains. I think it's absolutely crazy. I think if we were to ask people on the street here in Brussels, Antwerp or Liège, it doesn't matter if they agree that their products are actually from chains of forced labour, chains of slavery where Uighurs are finally forced to make our t-shirts, our clothes, I think the answer would be unanimous. They would refuse to do so. I believe that it is indeed urgent - and we will support this strongly - to have not only a law on the duty of vigilance at national level but also this directive at European level so that, ultimately, we can put an end to these imports of products from forced labour. We're in the 21st century. We can't accept it anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u46	Minister, earlier this year you received a letter from Secretary of State De Bleeker concerning the launch of a service concession for the delivery of recognized newspapers and magazines from January 2023. Mrs De Bleeker stated that the reduction in the number of newspapers and magazines supplied by the concessionaire should also be visible in the scope of this concession. However, it was decided to extend the concession for two years without reviewing the amount of the concession. My questions date back to 14 June, which makes the first question obsolete. I wanted to know if you would take into account the concerns of Secretary of State De Bleeker and would you, therefore, revise the scope of the concession together with Minister De Sutter? I believe that I can answer in your place and may say that you have not taken this into account. The concession will be worth EUR 170 million next year, a very small reduction if we know that the previous concession cost around EUR 175 million a year. Why did you not take into account Mrs De Bleeker's recommendation? Will there be a study to assess the opportunities of the service concession?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u47	Thank you, Mrs Dewulf, for your question. The letter from the Secretary of State for the Budget concerned the renewal of the concession in 2023 and not the two-year extension as approved by the previous government. The amounts referred to in the letter refer to the ceiling amounts of the current concession, the maximum concession fee that can be paid to the concessionaire. Since no political agreement had yet been reached on the price mechanism of the following concession, these ceilings were re-established. This merely to indicate what the current ceilings were and to give a certain estimate. As mentioned earlier, my fellow Minister De Sutter is not responsible for the concession. The government partners were, of course, involved in the discussions on the scope of the concession. The Belgian Institute for Postal and Telecommunications Services (BIPT), the federal regulator responsible for, inter alia, the postal market, carried out a study. This study shows the relevance of the extension of the concession. Since this study contains confidential elements and BIPT is the author of this study, please contact my colleague, Secretary of State Michel, who has the authority to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. The Flemish Interest absolutely does not understand your reaction. You refuse to review both the size and the effective service concession itself. The number of newspapers and magazines has fallen visibly in recent years. Then it is obvious that the amount allocated to beg these newspapers and magazines will also fall. Furthermore, it would be appropriate to invest part of the amount in digitalisation, thus meeting current needs rather than providing unnecessary, ill-thought-out subsidies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u49	This question was put a long time ago. During the discussion of draft law 55.2070 providing temporary support measures as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the government extended the innovation premium with amendments for 2021, as the existing scheme expired under the law of 3 July 2005. At the eleventh hour these amendments were withdrawn. This was done in the Committee on Social Affairs of 14 July 2021. However, the following communication was published on the FPS Economy website on 19 May 2021: "The deadline for submitting applications for innovation premiums for the 2020 operating year has expired. If the extension for the period 2021-2022 is not yet in force, applications for the calendar year 2021 may already be submitted. Meanwhile, however, the FPS Economy will not be able to validate them yet." This communication is still there, by the way. Can you confirm whether or not this extension will be forthcoming? Why are such announcements being made, and then finally withdrawn? Will you extend this arrangement for the time being and, if so, in what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u50	Mr President, Mr Verreyt, the measure is being extended. The announcement on the website of the FPS Economy is correct and remains current. The extension of the measure is part of a law that will transpose the provisions of the interprofessional agreement 2021-2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u51	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased that the measure is being extended, but three months before the end of 2021 it is really time to vote on this extension if it is to be done by legislative proposal. The companies are being held to be a root, but the uncertainty remains as long as the draft law is not on the table and approved. That uncertainty for our companies must be removed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of teats, the release of bisphenol A must be taken into account, not the total amount of bisphenol A contained in the object, since only one released substance can be absorbed into the body. My administration has opened a file and assessed the compliance of Dodie's teats with the regulations applicable in Belgium. According to the documents sent by the manufacturer, the teats comply with the current European standard and therefore comply with the requirements for placing on the Belgian market. Chemicals such as bisphenol A are regulated and standardised at European level and initiatives under REACH are currently under way. This approach ensures product safety, consumer protection and a single internal market for businesses. In addition, my administration has not received reports of products containing bisphenol A in the past three years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u53	Minister, thank you and your administration for taking the alert seriously and for carrying out a check. It is reassuring that the system is working and that consumers, especially the younger ones, can be tranquilized. The issue of endocrine disruptors needs to worry us a little more every day. You say that it is the release of the substance that must be taken into account, not the total quantity. Of course, you are right and that is what needs to be assessed. But endocrine disruptors are everywhere. We are constantly confronted with it. The crisis at the 3M plant reminds us that there is a major public health emergency. I hope that as Minister of the Economy, in partnership with the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Health, you will be able to strengthen our legislation to ensure our safety, particularly the safety of pregnant women and young women. There is a huge public expectation on health and environmental issues. We hope that your Government will be able to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u54	Minister, I also thank you for your answer. In addition to my colleague's statement, I should like to point out that countries such as France and Austria have already decided to go further than European regulations, by simply banning this substance in teats and teething rings. Although the release of BPA is measured, we know that children are much more sensitive than adults. Their bodies are smaller. So they're more exposed to a low dose. For this reason, particular attention in terms of threshold seems to me necessary and should be taken into account. Anyway, thank you for taking these tests. We will pay attention to their follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u55	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the past we have had a debate in this committee on the economic start-up after the covid pandemic. We note that our economy is indeed recovering, but that this start-up is still difficult. One of the reasons for this is that the risks of import dependence are becoming more and more apparent. I refer, among other things, to the car manufacturers in which production lines are simply stationary. Even before the recess, I thought this was a very temporary situation, but we now find that this situation does not seem to recover because certain goods are not coming. At the same time, if our companies do not receive these goods, they will not be able to deliver their finished goods. The study carried out by the Interparliamentary Alliance on China (IPAC) shows that Belgium can hardly export 159 goods without import from China. I am somewhat concerned about this. Seven critical goods would even touch national security or be crucial for the chemical or pharmaceutical sector. There is a fear that China could manipulate the availability of certain goods for political interests. This seems to me to be particularly disturbing, Minister. The dependence of our economy on Asia is thus once again on the table. That dependence on China was already there when the covid pandemic broke out. Everyone remembers the feverish search for protective equipment. Even now, at the start-up of our economy, we are still carrying this whole story. What should we do to ensure that certain sectors in which we have a technological edge are protected to the maximum? After all, we must ensure that we do not simply give away our knowledge and skills. I am thinking of the relocation of companies, not only large but also smaller ones, which could possibly have become important players in our economy. Europe is currently encouraging Member States to develop a vision, but Belgium has not yet done so. According to you, the process is ongoing and the FPS Economy is currently mapping Belgium's strategic dependencies. This subject has long been a concern of mine and I have already put forward proposals on this subject. When I look at the IPAC study, I wonder how you view the results. Are these in line with the previous conclusions of the FPS Economy? I have just said that companies around the world are currently suffering from these difficult supplies of materials from, among other things, China to enable economic re-launch. So that slows everything down, including in Belgium. What have you done in this regard? So what did you also do to make takeovers more difficult within strategic sectors? What have you done so far to ensure that our technological knowledge is not simply given away? What have you done to ensure that reshoring of certain products of strategic importance is made possible, or facilitated? You refer to the vision you are currently developing. When will that vision be ready? What is the current state of affairs? What are the main lines of that vision? What is it in relation to the other 18 European Member States which have already developed a vision?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u56	Your administration and your cabinet are currently mapping Belgium's strategic dependence on non-EU countries. The first results would be expected in September. Do you have an update here? How do you think Belgium should implement this concept?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u57	My administration is working on an in-depth study of the strategic dependencies of Belgium with a view to a publication for this autumn. It is largely based on the work of the European Commission. Departing from official statistics on external trade and the intertwinedness of the Belgian sectors, a number of sectors and products will be identified that may be vulnerable. Indeed, without prejudice to the results of the study, many strategically dependent products are being imported from China. We will then, where possible, in cooperation with our European partners, draw up the necessary initiatives in consultation with the other policy levels, including with regard to the supply of materials or products. The development of a screening mechanism for foreign investment is one of the priorities for this government. Since a number of powers are involved in developing the screening mechanism, a broad cooperation agreement with the different entities was opted for. Discussions are being held with the Länder on the modalities of this mechanism to ensure our national security, develop our strategic autonomy and give economic actors confidence to invest in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u58	Minister, I think your answer is a little flou, not really with a lot of depth. I have asked some very pertinent questions in my interplay. You do say that you are working to develop that vision. That's actually evacuating the question, but what's taking so long? Your predecessor, Mrs Muylle, was always full of screening mechanisms and protecting things, and you have been doing so for some time, but I do not see any results in this respect. You say that you cannot go into too much detail: why are we still asking questions in this Parliament? When we talk about the screening mechanism, I would like to refer to my proposal that is currently pending in this committee, for which an opinion from the Council of State is in the meantime and of which the Data Protection Authority (GDP) says it is a feasible map. I invite all Members to support the proposal when it is put to the vote in the next few weeks. I believe that such a screening mechanism is necessary and necessary, especially if national interests and national security are at stake. Frankly, Minister, I believe that your answer today, which was very superficial, does not just leave the companies, which have been slowing down for months and are not moving forward. Some have a lot of orders and could make a very nice start after the whole covid pandemic, but eventually they even have to fire employees because their production lines are stationary. That's a sign on the wall, isn't it? We must not underestimate the manipulation of China, among other things, because of political interests. We must be very vigilant in this regard. I can only hope that you, as Minister, will be aware of this in the near future. It is not just about making it more difficult to take over strategic sectors; it is also about the technological knowledge I have already mentioned. At the same time, of course, there are political interests from China, which may be problematic for us. Mr President, I have tabled a motion of recommendation to the secretariat asking for a vision to be developed without delay to protect our companies from the dependence on Chinese imports, to make takeovers in strategic sectors difficult and to protect our technological know-how to the maximum. I'd like to repeat the plea before the summer. We must facilitate the resurrection of certain products of strategic importance and ensure that they reach our peak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u59	Mr President, is it possible to watch the clock and also ask Members to keep to the two-minute speaking time for the question and one minute for the reply? The previous speaker was speaking longer and we all have a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u60	I note that, Mr Freilich, but this was an interplay and more speaking time is provided for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We are all awaiting the results of the work currently under way with the European Commission. I have noted that this is being looked at at at European level and that it concerns the Walloon sectors. As Mr Van Lommel said, we must guard our knowledge. There is a broad cooperation agreement. Is that about the European countries or the regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u62	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u63	In the interior. The screening mechanism is further addressed in the questions. Perhaps you will have some answers there, Mr Van Lommel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u64	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economy and Work, - having regard to the study of the Interparliamentary Alliance on China (IPAC), - having regard to the dependence of goods from China, - whereas seven critical goods, dependent on China, are affected by national security or are critical to chemistry or pharmaceutical; - whereas China can manipulate the availability of goods in function of political interests; asks the government - to develop without delay a vision which addresses the vulnerability caused by dependence on, inter alia, Chinese imports; - to make takeovers more difficult within strategic sectors; - to maximise the protection of technological knowledge, - to facilitate reshoring of products of strategic importance." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Labour, - having regard to the study conducted by the Interparliamentary Alliance on China (IPAC); - given our dependence on goods from China; - Whereas seven critical products for which we depend on China, concern national security or are crucial for the chemical or pharmaceutical sector; - Whereas China can manipulate the availability of its goods according to its political interests; asks the government - to develop without delay a vision in order to address the vulnerability resulting from our dependence on Chinese imports in particular; - make it more difficult to buy in strategic sectors; - to protect technological knowledge as far as possible; - to facilitate the relocation of products of strategic importance." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Leslie Leoni. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Leslie Leoni. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u65	I refer to my written question from a while ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u66	I fully agree with your remark that consumers want more durable goods and that they want them to be repaired more easily. We have established that an extension of the guarantee period is not sufficient to achieve that objective. In order to be able to rely on the guarantee and thus enjoy the right to repair, the consumer must be able to prove that he or she is not responsible for the defect six months after the purchase. In general, however, it is very difficult for consumers to prove this. To address that problem, we have decided to quadruple the length of reversal of the burden of proof. This is done in the context of the legislative proposal on the legal guarantee. During the whole period of the legal guarantee, two years, so it is now up to the seller and the producer to prove that they are not responsible for the malfunctioning, and therefore no longer to the consumer. This measure will make it easier for consumers to have defective products repaired. The draft law on the legal guarantee will enter into force by 1 January 2022 in accordance with Europe's time frame. I'm also working on a federal circular economy plan. In this context, I plan to introduce a repair score to inform consumers about the repairability of products.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u67	Minister, this question was put almost two months ago. The Belgian Competition Authority has been investigating possible price agreements on mouth masks in supermarkets for more than a year. I know that the duty of masking is becoming more and more widespread and that this problem will become less acute in the future, but the fact that such a thing would happen is a matter of concern to me. The Hearing Officer reported that an investigation was necessary because at the time things seemed strange and there is a suspicion that supermarkets decided jointly to set the price at a certain level." That is a particular statement which does indeed require investigation. The Competition Authority initially asked the supermarkets concerned a number of questions, followed by a formal investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u68	I would like to hear from you whether you are aware of the suspicion that price agreements have been made and whether steps have been taken by the Competition Authority. To what extent has the FPS Economy been involved in any suspicions about price fixing? Were any of these reports made by the FOD? What actions did you take yourself in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u69	Mr President, Mr Van Lommel, the Belgian Competition Authority has indeed, of its own motion, opened an investigation into possible price agreements on mouth masks. Due to the strict requirements of professional secrecy and the obligation of professional secrecy to which the BMA is subject, it cannot provide precise information on an ongoing investigation. Compliance with the principle as well as compliance with the independence of the BMA means that any policy-maker or government administration, such as the FPS Economy, is forbidden to intervene in the context of an investigation by the BMA. Completely independent of the investigation, the FPS Economy investigated the prices of the mouth masks during a certain period of time, in order to monitor the market. The FOD's investigation has not produced any results regarding infringements on the market. Therefore, at the present stage, there is no evidence that additional measures are necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u70	Mr President, Minister, I understand, of course, that there is something like professional secrecy and that not all the precise information can be given. However, when such reports are disseminated in the media and people are concerned, people are entitled to clarity and to correct and transparent information, especially when we talk about price agreements. I understand, of course, that in such cases the FPS Economy should not act. On the other hand, I am reassured that the FPS Economy itself has also initiated an investigation and that there are no results or indications at this stage that point towards price fixing or unfairly applied prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u71	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 55020108C will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u72	The Biddit platform, designed by the Royal Notariat Federation, is increasingly being used, allowing for more transparency, but above all a saving of time. Notaries anticipate better and increase the deadlines from several months to a few weeks, which is good. However, Biddit also has some defects. In particular, this new system seems to increase real estate prices in a context of rising demand due to periods of confinement. Another feature of the system is the fact that the sale ends on the last day. The bank that makes the loan determines the terms of the loan and a citizen has brought me an increase of 44% in the cost of his credit. Once the credit is chosen, it is difficult to change it on the last day. Minister, my questions are as follows: Is this new method of public sale still little regulated by law, is there a better legislative framework under consideration by your firm? Can you confirm to me that a credit offer is indeed supposed to commit the lender to finance the loan at the stated rate? How can we explain the situation reported by several citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u73	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u74	The offer of credit is a fixed and final offer by the creditor; the period of validity must be stated. That offer of credit binds the creditor for at least 14 days and can be accepted by the consumer at any time. The creditor may therefore set a period of validity of more than 14 days; acceptance of the offer by the consumer must take place before the expiry date. When the consumer accepts the offer, the contract is concluded. In addition, consumers should be provided with individualised information by means of a standardised form, ESIS or European standard information sheet, before or at the same time as the submission of the credit offer. The information contained in this form must take into account the needs, financial situation and consumer preferences. At the end of the period of validity of the offer, which is at least 14 days, a new offer may be submitted. If the credit offer diverges from the information provided in the first ESIS, a new adapted ESIS must be submitted. It is therefore permissible to submit a new offer at the end of the period of validity, if the consumer has not yet accepted it by signature. Nevertheless, the examples you are quoting raise questions, both the terms of the contract seem so different between the two offers submitted to the consumer. In addition, they are of concern if the data have not changed with respect to consumer solvency or market rate or the rate on the list of the lender's tariff. I do not know, however, the particular circumstances of the examples you are quoting, but these could be unfair practices against the consumer. As you know, it is up to the latter to file a complaint with the FPS Economy contact point. To date, however, no complaints have been received by the economic inspectorate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u75	Minister, thank you for your answer. Perhaps notaries, who are at the origin of this platform, could usefully advise customers and perhaps we should, through our networks, warn them of this risk and of the need to better accompany buyers who request bank credit when buying real estate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u76	Mr President, Minister, the first point is that there is a legal agreement if there is a will. In the present case, it was an offer made. Maybe there's a small difference between the original and the final offer. That could explain changed circumstances. However, the difference is 44%. You yourself state that such a difference is very difficult to justify if there are no striking changes in the financial situation of the consumers concerned. Moreover, it is not only the difference in supply, but also in the amount to be borrowed. In this case, it had been said to the person concerned that he could derive the full amount. This does not turn out to be the case later. These are very strange situations. You did not answer my specific question as to whether this could be a form of consumer deception. However, it must be clear that such matters cannot be accepted. I therefore hope that you will pay due attention to this. You say you have not yet received any complaints. Perhaps we should inform the Ombudsman. I have seen, for example, the letter that the person in question sent to the Ombudsman. This practice raises questions for the Ombudsman. This is about one event, but I can imagine that this could happen more, because there are more and more online bids. We must therefore be careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u77	Mr President, thank you for the courtesy of giving me the opportunity to ask my question. For the question itself, I will refer to the question submitted in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u78	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, on 8 July 2021 I received the opinion of the Council of State. My administration is currently adapting the draft law where necessary. On 8 September 2021, a meeting was held between staff of the European Commission and staff of my policy cell and the administration, in order to better frame the question to the European Commission. However, we have not yet received a written reply from the European Commission, which indicated that it would need a few more weeks. The draft law will then be submitted to Parliament. The study referred to is general. It is a legal study on methods of alternative dispute resolution in the field of intellectual property. The study is therefore wider than the copyright or the transposition of the DSM Directive. However, the study considered whether certain alternative dispute resolution mechanisms could lead to even greater protection of the weakest party. The study bureau considers that it would be legally possible to impose a greater transparency obligation on the platform in the context of press publishing law. We have also asked the Belgian Competition Authority and the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications to consider what role they could play. The opinions of those two authorities should be available by the end of September 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u79	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I had asked a number of very specific questions because some of the issues in the directive are subject to interpretation and can be transposed into Belgian law in a certain way. I understand that you do not want to go into these questions at this time. I can understand that. However, we need to know that the directive had to be transposed by 7 June 2021. We are now a few months later and are apparently still at the stage of examining certain issues, i.e. in a study phase. That seems pretty late to me. You refer to the opinion of the Council of State, which you would have received at the beginning of July 2021, if I have understood you correctly. It has indeed come to our attention that there was an opinion from the Council of State, but we have not found that opinion on the website of the Council of State itself. So I would really appreciate it if it were possible to give us that advice. Then we look forward to the draft law which will undoubtedly be delivered to us within a few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u80	Minister, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u81	Although food inflation is still negative at present, an increase in food prices could be expected as a result of the increase in the prices of the various agricultural commodities in recent months. However, it is very difficult to estimate the extent of this increase. The forecast in the above study, more than 5% on an annual basis, is based on a simple calculation, assuming that one third of the food consumption price is the cost of agricultural raw materials and that its price has increased by 16.5% on average in the last year. However, we need to be more nuanced. Part of the price increase is likely to be absorbed into the margins of the food industry or the retail sector. Moreover, there is no evidence that the increase in raw material prices will continue or that it has already reached its peak. In its last quarterly report 2020-2021, the Price Observatory reports that overall inflation in Belgium is rising from 0.8 % in the first quarter to 2.4 % in the second quarter of this year. This increase in inflation is explained by a significant increase in prices for energy products. For all other product groups, inflation remains very low. In particular, consumer prices for foodstuffs fell over the course of a year. Let me remind you that automatic indexation of wages and benefits protects citizens from price increases. The current rise in energy prices is particularly affecting the most vulnerable. It is important to respond to this social problem. At the end of this week, a budgetary conclave will be held which will have to develop social measures to protect the purchasing power of the most vulnerable in particular. The Minister for Energy and myself will put forward a specific request to extend the measures extending the social tariff to customers with a right to increased compensation until 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There was one element in it that I don't really know how to interpret. When you spoke of the study, which you said should be read more nuanced, you said that part of the additional price is absorbed. I'm not sure what to mean by that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u83	In the margins of the food industry or retail trade. It's annual contracts, so yeah.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u84	Okay, thank you for that clarification. As far as total inflation is concerned, the increase in energy prices plays a major role. I think that we certainly do not need to draw a picture of this today and that everyone is convinced of it. An additional question: do you intend to instruct the Prize Observatory to possibly do a study on price evolution? Finally, you refer to the budgetary conclave that will take place and the social measures that will be discussed there. It is very good that social measures will be discussed, but I think we need to go a step further and think about structural reforms. For example, to reduce labour costs in our country. I do not think anyone will deny that our country's wage costs also have a negative impact on prices, in the sense that, for example, prices in our country's supermarkets are much higher than in our neighbouring countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u85	Mr President, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u86	Mr President, the shortage of containers and increased transport costs cause supply problems and higher costs for certain companies. According to the latest survey carried out by the National Bank of Belgium's Economic Risk Management Group, one in two companies report that supply is moderately to severely disturbed. In any case, I asked the Price Observatory to closely monitor the possible impact on consumer prices. However, this is an international problem facing all European economies. We have not yet received reports of products that would no longer be offered to the Belgian consumer. According to the NBB's survey, the most affected sectors are in wholesale, non-food shops, construction and industry. Companies in these sectors report that their deliveries are moderately to severely disturbed. For this reason, 28% of respondents referred to transport problems. In the second quarter, until June 2021, inflation for non-energy industrial goods amounted to just 0.4%. For most products inflation is still limited for the time being, only for furniture and garden furniture seems to accelerate inflation in 2021. The figures are 1.1 % in the second quarter and 1.9 % in July 2021 respectively. For the Belgian Competition Authority, the logistics sector is one of the priority sectors. The increased degree of concentration in shipping is known by the authority. Complaints about alleged concrete infringements can always be reported to the auditorate. More in-depth sector research and possible additional measures, such as monitoring or regulation of the sector, are best coordinated at European level. It is a problem which the Member States have to deal with.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u87	We can't go beyond the fact that it's an international problem. It is not for nothing that American President Biden, for example, has made a decree to stimulate competition within shipping and shipping companies. There are about ten big players who have almost 80% in their hands. That's not a healthy situation. We need to look at what can happen there at European level. There is no specificity yet around certain products that could be in short supply. Not everyone has to walk to the gas station, as in the United Kingdom. That is, of course, for other reasons. You refer, among other things, to the construction sector where there is a problem. There are indeed price increases in the wood up to 300%. People who are building a house will be able to testify about it. That's definitely something to follow up on. You've also instructed the Prize Observatory to follow it closely. That is the appropriate attitude we must adopt here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u88	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u89	Minister, I have a question about the transposition of the directive conferring powers on the competition authorities of the Member States in order to ensure more effective enforcement and the proper functioning of the internal market. Can you give an update on your initiatives? What business are you planning to do? When do you intend to implement this directive? What's your deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u90	The time limits for the control of mergers by the Belgian Competition Authority, such as a merger or a takeover, are laid down in the Code of Economic Law. There are strict deadlines for the Competition Authority to comply with. The Hearing Officer may, during the investigation phase, send requests for information to the undertakings within a strict period of 25 working days following notification of the concentration by the parties. The parties may, however, choose to discuss with the Hearing Officer, during an informal pre-notification phase, the necessary information to be provided at the time of notification. This pre-notification phase makes it possible to avoid complete notifications of concentration. In the case of a complete notification, the start of the investigation and the deadlines should be postponed to the detriment of the undertakings concerned. Its duration may be longer or shorter, depending on all undertakings providing all the necessary information. A provision of the Belgian Competition Authority is indeed provided for in the law transposing Directive 2019/1 conferring powers on the competition authorities of the Member States for more effective enforcement and ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market. The draft transposition of the Directive was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2021. It was subject to the opinion of the Council of State of 15 July 2021 and was delivered to the Data Protection Authority on 17 July 2021. That opinion is expected after 4 October. The draft law may then be submitted to Parliament for approval. So I will be coming back to you shortly to go into detail on how this draft law actually strengthens the Belgian Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u91	Thank you, Minister. As far as those strict deadlines are concerned, I am of course aware of that, but I think that the problem is often that it goes wrong in the informal phase, as you point out. There is a lot of information to be gathered at that stage. It often appears that documents are still missing and that this period often drags on unnecessarily long. Well, unnecessary, of course, that is the question, I think that is often played with a little consciously. I'm sure there's some work to be done to revisit that. Finally, I am, of course, looking forward to the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u92	As far as I am concerned, thank you for the answer. We look forward to the draft bill that will perhaps come into the committee in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u93	Minister, the Economic Inspectorate released its 2020 Annual Report on September 7. The result is worrying, as the CPS received more than 55,000 fraud reports, an increase of more than 30% over 2019. If the number of alerts increases every year thanks – and this is good news – to the growing awareness of the point of contact, 2020 also marks the explosion of online sales, due to the crisis of the coronavirus. And what says explosion of online sales also says explosion of frauds. As a result of this publication, you have communicated your willingness to improve the reception and monitoring of these alerts, adding that, in order to achieve these objectives, a single digital window would be created and would centralize all consumer questions and complaints. Minister, could you give us more details about the creation of this window? Who will be responsible for this: the SPF Economy? How will it work in practice? When do you plan to implement it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u94	Mrs Reuter, thank you for your question. Digital tools are essential in the fight against fraud, but also in order to inform consumers. The number of Internet alerts sent to FPS Economy contact points is increasing considerably every year. In my view, it is necessary to improve this tool in order to improve its effectiveness and to ensure better follow-up of consumer complaints. There are currently several websites and contact points to find out about its rights or to contact the various federal administrations active in the field of consumer protection. Our intention is to create a one-stop shop to centralise all questions, alerts and consumer mediation requests by always allowing them to contact the competent authority if they wish. This new window will function as a single point of access for consumers, who will be able to find information, ask questions, file an alert or introduce a mediation procedure. The platform will allow for the dispatch of their questions, reports and requests for mediation to the various services concerned: communication, inspection, mediation services and I pass them. The project will be developed from the point of view of the consumer, not that of the administrations. The intention is not to centralize all the different services, but to offer a one-stop shop where consumers – whatever their problem – will be able to discover, with as few steps as possible, what their rights are and whether they must submit a request for information, a report or a request for mediation. Consumers will also be able to see the status of their application. The project is large and is coordinated by the SPF Economy in view of its expertise in this area. A first feasibility study is under way with the consultation of all relevant partners. The budget for this project is also under discussion. In a second phase, to be launched in 2022, the platform will be developed from a technical point of view. The aim is to be able to launch this one-stop shop as quickly as possible; I think, reasonably, at the beginning of 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u95	Minister, thank you for your full answer. I had hoped that all this would go a little faster. We still have a big year ahead of us. Let us hope that this project will be implemented quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u96	Minister, I have already spoken to you about this bill in the past. It's about making the electronic registered shipment more effective in our country. I wanted to know if you thought it appropriate to sit down with all stakeholders in order to reach a broad consensus. I know that you sent me a number of positive signals at the time, for which I am grateful. Only I saw that it was rather difficult to follow up on that. I wanted to know if you still support the idea of putting all our shoulders on that together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u97	Thank you, Mr Freilich, for your question. As Minister of Economy, I confirm, as I have also written about your bill in two joint opinions of 17 March and 4 May 2021, that I remain convinced of the many benefits of the qualified electronic registered mission. I note that the first version of your bill resulted in the creation of a partnership between the providers of services for qualified electronic registered shipments and the eBox platform. The second version removes this partnership and imposes an obligation on the entities registered with the FBO to register with at least one of the providers of services for qualified electronic registered shipments. I have a clear preference for the first version. In my opinion of 17 March, I had already welcomed this approach, provided that some conditions were imposed and some details clarified. In this context, and to be constructive in this matter, I have consulted my colleagues, Minister De Sutter and Secretary of State Michel, to organise a meeting with the experts of the FPS Economy. I would therefore like to await these results before taking a position in consultation with my colleagues Michel and De Sutter on the next steps to be taken in the dossier. In any case, I reiterate my wish to reconcile, on the one hand, the objective of modernising, simplifying and digitising administrative procedures and, on the other hand, the objective of promoting the supply and use of qualified electronic registered consignments in a market which ensures fair competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u98	Minister, I am very pleased that you have already taken a number of steps. I'm sorry you didn't let me know that those steps were ongoing. But it is very good to hear that the various Cabinets are sitting together on that. You will always find a partner in us. The bill is pending in committee and it would be very nice to reach a comprehensive agreement between all parties. This would be a new policy on matters that are important for the country, for the economy and for digitisation. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u99	Thank you, Mrs Van Bossuyt, for your question. A number of initiatives have already been taken in the previous legislature to allow flexible work in e-commerce. For example, Article 96 of the Labour Act of 16 March 1971 introduced a wide discretion to allow night work to be carried out for the purpose of carrying out all logistical and support services linked to e-commerce. An experimental framework was also established between 2018 and 2019 to facilitate the introduction of night-time work arrangements for the electronic commerce of movable goods. On the other hand, this provides for Sunday work. This experimental framework has been used only moderately in practice. As regards the future flexibilisation of labour legislation, the Government intends to extend the increase in the number of voluntary overtime by 120 hours to all sectors for the period 2021 to 2022. This increase has so far only been a crisis measure for employers in key sectors. The measure follows the agreement of the social partners in the framework of the Ipa negotiations 2021-2022. As you know, this government attaches great importance to social dialogue and trusts that the social partners will be able to reach the necessary social agreements in areas of interest to them. Working time and work organisation are at the heart of labour law. They are therefore at the heart of the matter, which must be resolved in the first instance by means of social dialogue. Moreover, only agreements concluded through social dialogue ensure that the measures and the new legislation have the necessary support. In this context, I call on the trade organisation Comeos to put its issues on the table in the sectoral negotiations. The agreements reached through sectoral social dialogue will be examined in depth by the government. In conclusion, I can give you the following about experiments on work organisation. It is my intention to follow up the unanimous opinions of the National Labour Council on pilot projects in the field of innovative work organisation. At the moment, my administration is working on the design of KB that should make this possible. This is done in cooperation with experts appointed by the social partners. The aim is to launch a cycle of pilot projects in 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u100	Mr President, Minister, I understand that you are working to make the labour market more flexible. You refer to night work that is now possible. That's a little short. It is still very narrowly defined on the basis of exceptions. The principle is still that night work is prohibited in our country, while I am convinced that many people have no problem with it. If people are willing to do so, it should also be possible. We absolutely must avoid making the same mistakes in e-commerce, for example in the food sector, as we have made in the field of e-commerce in the non-food sector. Our tight labour laws certainly create obstacles. Today, we are finding a major contraction in the labour market, a major mismatch as well. Yesterday I heard the story of someone who works in a company and gets 750 euros per person he can employ in the company, because the company itself does not find people who want to work there. Very special, knowing that there are many unemployed in our country. It is therefore essential to get more people to work and to employ people in a flexible way, including in order not to miss the e-commerce train.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u101	The regions are competent to define the risk areas autonomously. They make their proposals on the demarcation of risk zones in accordance with the criteria set out in the Annex to the Royal Decree of 12 October 2005. The Walloon Region updated the risk zones in March 2021. For the Flemish Region, flood risk zones were updated in July 2017. The standards of the Regions, the Royal Decree of 28 February 2007 for the demarcation of risk zones, as described in the Insurance Act in Article 129, are re-established. This is only intended to ensure greater transparency. The matter falls within the competence of the Regions. I invite you to look at your questions with the Regions. In the meantime, I have been asked by the Flemish Region to adapt the Royal Decree of 12 October 2005 with the criteria for the demarcation of risk zones to more risk-based criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u102	That seems to me to be a complicated division. The regions are competent, but the FPS Economy and the Insurance Act have some federal competence anyway. We can record it with the Regions. It is particularly relevant for Wallonia. We are not represented there, but I am counting on the colleagues from the PS there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u103	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, it is true that there are currently few construction dryers available on the market. They were sold or rented out for use in the homes affected by the water pollution. At the level of the municipalities and contractors, it is considered how as many building dryers as possible can be used. The problem that arises is both administrative and logistical. This concerns the transport of material, storage and overhaul, supply and demand management, and insurance of the material. On the other hand, it is very difficult at present to estimate exactly how many equipment is available to contractors. In the field of insurance, the FPS Economy has published information on its website to help people take the necessary steps. For the other tasks, I refer to the initiatives taken by my colleague, the Minister of the Walloon Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u104	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. I believe that the construction sector could do a little more. Of course, this must be done on their own initiative. You can insist on that, but I do not think that much more is immediately possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u105	Mr Minister, this question concerns a pending legislative proposal from us. In reply to my question, on 5 May, you stated that you had requested an opinion on the brewery contracts from the special advisory committee on unfair terms. This advice, which we have received in the meantime, shows that, as is suspected, there are quite a few problems. The opinion says that in a very large part of the agreements there is no force majeure at all. That is not even mentioned, which is detrimental to the operator. Other agreements do refer to it but the wording is so vague that the provision is not implemented. It also found terms which, contrary to the existing code of conduct, placed the risk of force majeure solely on the catering operator. They were also granted the right to terminate the agreement immediately in the event of non-compliance, which is absolutely contrary to the Code of Economic Law. The opinion shows that a large part of the agreements do not regulate force majeure. Finally, the Special Committee on Unlawful Terms points out that, in view of the far-reaching consequences, explicit non-binding terms must be clearly communicated and allowed only in the event of serious shortcomings. This must also be formulated and applied objectively, which is clearly not the case now. It certainly doesn't give a brewer or a liquor dealer the right to unilaterally break the contract. This is contrary to the general standard. You said earlier, Minister, that on the basis of the opinion you would analyse whether a legislative initiative is appropriate. We interpret the opinion so that it is necessary and our proposal is ready. What's your analysis? It is clear that force majeure is often not included or not properly in the agreements. Some agreements were even contrary to the WER. What solutions do you see for this? Will you continue to bet on checking the agreements? Unilateral binding choices under the brewery regarding the non-achievement of the purchase obligation also create an imbalance between the rights and obligations of the parties. How can this imbalance be addressed if there is no legislative initiative? My second question concerns the code of conduct. It is in fact somewhat separate from this, because this passage is in the code of conduct, but it is clearly not being followed. So I have the impression that this code of conduct is not enough. However, you should evaluate them together with Minister Clarinval's cabinet and that should lead to an opinion by the end of the year. What's the status? Is the end of the year feasible? Has there been consultation with the sector, for example? The opinion of the Special Consultative Committee on Unlawful Terms also states that a further examination of the code of conduct is beyond their competence. Is further research needed to complete the evaluation of the Code of Conduct?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u106	Mrs Depraetere, I will answer your various questions in two parts. Firstly, with regard to a possible legislative initiative, the Special Consultative Committee on Unlawful Terms made it clear in its opinion that it is possible to act through b2b legislation against the unfair terms in the agreements to which you refer. Therefore, I do not think that specific legislative initiatives in this area are necessary at the moment. Secondly, the code of conduct for a good relationship between brewers, drink dealers and the catering sector explicitly refers to the issues of force majeure and unilateral binding choices of the brewery in the event of non-compliance with the purchase obligation by the catering operator. The code of conduct is currently being analysed by my administration. The results will be available at the earliest in October. At that time, the various stakeholders will be brought together to make a formal assessment. I cannot therefore give an opinion at this stage, but it is quite possible that the two provisions will be amended in the near future. In parallel with this process of revising the code of conduct, I, together with my colleague, Minister Clarinval, wanted to bring together the various stakeholders to reach agreement on the drafting of an addendum to the code of conduct, following the opinion of the High Council for Self-employed Persons and SMEs, which called for a speedy resumption of negotiations on an addendum to the code of conduct on the full and definitive exemption from a minimum purchase obligation during the covid period. A first constructive meeting took place on 14 September and a second meeting will take place on Tuesday 12 October. I will keep you informed of any further developments in the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u107	Minister, with regard to whether or not a legislative initiative is needed, please refer to the Code of Conduct and B2B legislation. That legislation is indeed there, but I have also asked a similar question to the Minister of Justice and he acknowledges that a judge may find it difficult in practice to know what priority is given. There is a problem there, because a contract between a brewer and a catering operator would have no higher value than the code of conduct, which is not always respected either. There is therefore a problem, but it is good that the code is analysed and that everything is more or less on schedule.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u108	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55020668c is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u109	This is a follow-up question from a question I asked earlier. The problem of the compulsory insurance of motor vehicles would be investigated. I should like to refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u110	Mr Van den Bergh, a legislative initiative is certainly needed here. In fact, the unconstitutional provision is precarious at a time when the rule of law is in danger of being declared unconstitutional. There is a need for legal certainty and clarity. That is what I want to achieve by amending the legislation. I have therefore asked the Committee on Insurance to draw up a draft amendment to the law of 21 November 1989 on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance. In doing so, account will also be taken of future adjustments at European level. This is the directive on insurance against civil liability. The question of whether or not an electric step with saddle is considered a moped class A is not within my competence. I invite you to ask that question to the Minister of Mobility. However, if an electric step with saddle is considered effective as a moped class A as defined in the road code, a car insurance civil liability will always have to be closed, regardless of the speed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u111	Minister, on my previous question on this matter in January 2021, you announced that a legislative initiative might need to be taken, and you confirm that now. The first steps have been taken. Of course, legal uncertainty is a little over our heads, so there is some need for quick work. I would have liked to have seen a little bit of timing, but I hope that the draft law will be submitted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u112	Insurance legislation provides that insurers may cap their compensation for natural disasters such as floods. This mechanism was introduced by the Act of 21 May 2003. The ceiling was entirely in favour of insurance. It was also Assuralia who had suggested the amount of the ceiling during an audition at the time. It is not only the PTB-PVDA that finds this benefit cap mechanism to be very supportive of insurance. In fact, Mrs Simone Creyf, MP CD&V, considered in 2005 that "this system was very advantageous for private insurers because, on the one hand, private insurers have guaranteed premium revenues and, on the other hand, the biggest risks are still covered by the state". It concluded that this cap mechanism was "tailor-made for insurers". In 2005, the Minister of Economy stated that the risk of damage caused by natural disasters exceeding the ceiling was minimal. He even concluded that it was very unlikely that the calamity fund would be made available and that it therefore implied a good economy for the Belgian State. Instead of a good economy, today it is taxpayers who pay in lieu of insurance for more than EUR 1 billion as a result of the secret agreement between Mr Di Rupo and the insurers. While they have made almost 15 billion net profits in recent years, that these insurances are protected by reinsurers and that they increase their premiums beyond inflation, it is the public power that covers most of the damage. With global warming, we know that this kind of event will no longer be exceptional and we must prepare for it. A system where insurance premiums are paid so that companies cover us only very partially no longer makes any sense. Minister, do you think that this ceiling is still relevant today by considering the increase in risk? Will you question this ceiling so that the insurance companies fully assume their responsibilities? Shouldn't the cost of insurance premiums be capped rather than the amount of compensation paid?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u113	Last July's floods caused tremendous damage throughout the country, particularly in my region. And wherever these floods hit, disaster victims are now struggling to repair, rebuild, but also advance their disaster file. Which, admittedly, takes time. What can we do to speed up procedures? That's the question. Last week in the Walloon Parliament, an extremely important decree was passed. It allows insured persons to receive 100% of the damage covered by their insurance policy. It also provides for partial compensation for uninsured persons. These are extremely important means that have been unlocked by the Di Rupo government to help those affected. In this context, my question relates to the ceiling for insurers' intervention, because a lot of lies have been heard about it. The fact is that we have a federal law that provides that insurance can limit its intervention in the event of a natural disaster to a ceiling of compensation: this is section 130 of the Insurance Act, which came out of a federal act of 2003. What the Walloon government has achieved is that the insurers agree to go beyond this legal ceiling: it is the content of the agreement with Assuralia. The insurers agreed to double their intervention. However, the question arises as to whether this ceiling is still adapted to the current situation. Previously, it had never been exceeded. The July floods were unprecedented in scale. I would therefore like to know, minister, whether you consider it appropriate to address the issue of raising this ceiling. If so, what could be the objectives and effects of this reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u114	Minister, the July floods have affected many independents who lost equipment as a result of this tragedy. Many people fear losing part of their clientele if they do not quickly recover the tools that allow them to work. The deadlines given by the suppliers are long, some will have to wait until March next year according to a report from the RTBF. And self-employed people are not even sure whether they are covered by their insurers, who regularly indicate in small print that they do not cover damage resulting from natural disasters. Uncertainty prevails and the independents need a strong signal. Minister Clarinval, who I asked the following questions, sent me back to you as you are in charge of insurance. I hope you can take a stand in favour of the self-employed and remind insurers of their responsibilities. Minister, can you guarantee that the self-employed who pay insurance will be fully covered for the damage they have suffered? Can you guarantee that you will put pressure on insurers not to escape their responsibilities by using a clause excluding natural disasters?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. There is, in fact, no legal ceiling, as such, provided for by the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014. The law provides for an individual intervention limit per insurer in the form of a percentage of fire premium, a simple risk, which it collects. The law also provides for a minimum individual limit of 2 million euros to be indexed. This indexed amount represents an amount of €2.7 million today. Adding the individual limits of insurers for the mid-July floods amounts to €350 million. As you know, the limits mentioned apply per event, per disaster. As you also know, – Mr. Ben Achour recalled this – an agreement was concluded between the Walloon Region and Assuralia allowing compensation to 100% of the persons concerned, in accordance with the terms of their insurance contract, including, of course, the independents you mentioned, Mr D'Amico. A similar agreement with Assuralia was also concluded by the Flemish Region and the Brussels Region. This is not a secret agreement, as we are talking about it today. The terms are known. I heard that I was quoted in the Walloon Parliament. Indeed, I have witnessed the negotiation procedure and this agreement. So this is not a surprise agreement. This is a good agreement that was negotiated on the basis of the current conditions of the law by Minister-President Di Rupo, who nevertheless obtained a doubling of the intervention of the insurance companies. It is therefore around 700 million euros. You are not unaware that insurance companies take into account the particularities of the files and give priority, as far as possible, to the expertise according to the urgency. I think, for example, of the independents who need to relaunch their activities. Consideration is also given to the possibilities of tele-expertise which allow for the release of advances and the acceleration of rehabilitation work. But let us agree that we are facing a colossal, titanic construction site and that this will unfortunately take time. It is impossible to exclude the coverage of natural disasters from a fire insurance contract. It is provided by law that this situation is necessarily included in simple fire cover. The only exception is for buildings that were built more than 18 months after being classified as located in an area at risk of flooding. You asked me about the need to review the current mechanism as provided for in the legislation. I am indeed convinced of that. In the light of the experience and events we have just experienced, reflections must be made. I have therefore already consulted the National Bank of Belgium and set up a working group which will meet shortly in order to review the individual intervention limit of insurance undertakings. It is, in my view, absolutely necessary. There are in neighbouring countries – I am thinking in particular of France and Spain – compensation mechanisms which, of course, involve insurance companies, but also the public authorities which can be intelligently inspired. I can tell you that work is already under way. I do not think, on the other hand, that simply removing the ceiling, as Mr D'Amico suggests, is a solution. The risk is then that the premiums will explode. Placing premiums would seem to me to be a perilous exercise that could result in many citizens not being able to secure their homes and activities. We have started the work of evaluating the law on the basis of the dramatic experience we have just experienced and also on the basis of the good practices from abroad that we must draw on, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u116	Minister, I listened to you very well. The PTB believes that this ceiling is obsolete for three reasons. At the time of its establishment, it was not thought that it would be reached and I would like to quote here an excerpt from the parliamentary work of the time and from the remarks made by Minister Charles Picqué: "It is therefore very unlikely that the Fund of calamities will be made available, which implies a beautiful tax saving for the Belgian State." At the time of the ceiling in 2003, it was intended to apply only to people living in floodplains. In 2005, it was decided that insurance would cover everyone so that premiums would not fly away. But the ceiling was retained as such while the risk to insurance had decreased considerably. Finally, premiums for insured persons have increased despite this ceiling: 5.9% increase in 2019 while insurance had already made more than 15 billion profits over the last seven years. In addition, this summer, Le Vif or La Libre read that several professionals in the sector announced that premiums could increase further for less coverage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u117	Minister, thank you for your answers and, above all, for your commitment to review this legislation, to reform it. In your work and in the thought that will guide you, perhaps I suggest that you take into account a situation that concerns waste disposal. Cities and municipalities have had to act quickly to solve the problem and have thus replaced the duty of insurance, but at their expense, with ex post intervention by the Region or the federal government. But it is still that the public sector has taken over the responsibility of insurance companies. I believe that this is an anomaly in the normal functioning of a compensation process and that it must be integrated into your future reflections on this reform which – the facts require – is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u118	Minister, on September 16th, I learned in the newspaper L的Echo that the Bluebell Capital fund was calling on Nicolas Boël, president of the Solvay chemical group, concerning the release of chemical waste into the sea in Italy. The Financial Times quoted in the article even compares the beach of Rosignano to an open air discharge... Last January, a resolution to empower economic actors to prevent human rights violations and environmental abuses was adopted and the PTB-PVDA supported. While the bill is currently being discussed in committee, one of the largest Belgian companies is being called into question in a Member State of the European Union that is particularly close to my heart. Minister, are you contemplating convening Solvay's management to explain the discharge of its waste? Are any sanctions envisaged with respect to the group?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u119	In the absence of a binding legislative framework, there is currently no obligation of sufficient vigilance on companies in Belgium. I had the opportunity to address this point with Mr Cogoloati. This is why Belgium and Europe need to have more binding legislation. Parliament's resolution of 14 January 2021 and the bill of 2 April 2021 are in line with this. A proposal for a European directive on the subject was also announced. Even in the absence of this legislative framework that I call for, I am and we are entitled to expect a company like Solvay to explain this matter. If it were proven, such pollution would threaten the image of the Belgian flagship Solvay. As you know, Solvay has set significant and measurable production reduction targets for 2030 under the Solvay One Planet programme. I contacted this company which informed me that "the phenomenon of the white beaches of Rosignano is well known. The Solvay plant has been producing soda carbonate for more than a century. Unfortunately, in recent years, some polemics have mixed facts and perceptions. The process of soda carbonate is safe and controlled, uses natural materials and is carried out in full compliance with European and Italian regulations. Europe defines a Best Label Technics framework for the elimination of inert materials from soda carbonate operations. The method used by the Solvay plant in Rosignano has been chosen with local, regional and national authorities, because limestone sand stabilizes the coastline against a phenomenon of natural erosion." This version of the facts, although perfectly convincing, does not in any way remove the need for the Italian authorities to carry out the checks of use, nor does it remove the need for Belgium to adopt a law on the duty of vigilance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u120	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, in today's newspaper Le Soir, a report by twenty-four associations pointed to some fifty companies involved in the occupied Palestinian territories. Among them, several are active in Belgium, including Solvay. Contacted by Le Soir, Solvay says that it conducted an internal investigation and did not find any trace of sale of Solvay products in the designated area. At the moment, we are discussing in committee a bill on the duty of corporate vigilance. In view of these two cases, I think that we could call this company active in Belgium to order. I know that this bill has not yet been passed, but I really hope that it will allow us to require multinationals to respect standards in terms of international law, workers' rights and the environment. I am counting on you, Minister, to send a strong signal to Solvay that our work in committee will not be of any use.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u121	Minister, it has been mentioned more often in recent weeks: anyone wishing to take out a mortgage loan from 1 January 2022 is obliged to have the property valued. I understand that the banks may differ from that in a number of cases, but in practice this will be about loans with a lower equity. And I see a certain risk in that. Because if a house is purchased by a young family, and that property is lower estimated by the independent treasurer designated by the bank, then the quotivity will go up, which implies the risk for them that they will be charged a higher interest rate or even above 90%, which will make banks less inclined to lend, all the more so because the National Bank has already imposed that up to 35% of the loans granted may have a quotivity higher than 90%. Then I think: doesn't this have a double effect? On the one hand, people want to keep houses affordable. On the other hand, this puts young families in difficulty, especially when they see that their own resources count less for the bank because of the discrepancy between the estimated value and their effective bid. How do you feel about this new measure? Will the unwanted effect of overbiding be solved in this way? How do you feel about that risk of charging higher interest rates because of those higher quotas? Will these loans remain open to anyone who wants to buy a property?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u122	Mr President, even today, at the request of the National Bank, the banks in Belgium must grant residential loans on the basis of the value of the property, which is not necessarily equal to the purchase price. Even today, buyers who outbid and pay more than the estimated value have to bring in at least that part of the amount themselves. In this sense, it is not a new measure. The guidelines of the European Banking Authority, which allow multiple methods of estimation, do not change that practice either. The Belgian banks will be able to base themselves on statistical models for the valuation of the property. The result of that valuation is an additional indicator to determine the value of the property. In the case of bids under closed cover, buyers may make only one bid. That will therefore have to be high enough. The buyers should therefore assess both their own contribution and the value of the property as best as possible. In addition, they can accept a suspensive condition, albeit less likely than those who do not. They can also limit their bid in time to increase the pressure on the seller. Together with my colleague, the Minister for Finance, I will closely monitor the evolution of the market. It is important that a housing loan remains accessible to the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u123	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think that offering under closed cover is already a practice that is not very positive for young families who want to buy a house. As you say, they will have to assess very well the value of the house and, at the same time, make an offer that is higher, as otherwise they will probably not be able to buy the house effectively, especially in cities where competition is very high. I am concerned about that, especially with the announcement that there should not always be a treasurer. That is a good thing in itself, because it will not have to be paid, but I am concerned about what the result will be from the overall assessment. It is useful that this suspensive condition exists and is being used, but perhaps it should become mandatory. This certainly does not seem to me to be an unnecessary luxury.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u124	Mr Minister, it is true that the buildings must already be valued when granting mortgage credit. You say this is not a new measure. This is not entirely true because banks have handled any mandatory estimates fairly smoothly in the past. That was only when people were at a high level of quotivity. Now that is regularly asked, but in the future this will be much more demanded. You say that statistical models can be used. That's true, but that doesn't say anything about the degree of finishing of a particular home or small or large renovation costs that still have to be done. Overbiding is indeed not healthy. I understand that measures are being taken to this end, and no one will benefit from it, but I think we should be careful about the undesirable effects of such matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u125	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55020833C, 55020836C, 55020839C and 55020840C of Mrs Verhelst are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u126	Thank you, Congresswoman. This case was dealt with by several working groups, either at the federal level or at the level of the federated entities. It was discussed and negotiated, in particular with regard to the establishment of a mechanism for screening foreign investment. The aim is to create an efficient system that does not impose an excessive administrative burden on businesses. The vast majority of transactions can be closed after a very short procedure, if no risk is identified. Only if there are obvious risks will appropriate corrective measures be considered. The effective introduction of a foreign investment screening mechanism is under negotiation. At this stage, I prefer not to go into the details of the discussions on a cooperation agreement with the federated entities, in order to give the negotiations the best chance of success. I see Mrs. Houtmeyers is here. As regards certain specific procedural elements, it is therefore not clear how a definitive reply can be given at this stage. Our law is inspired by the best practices of other countries that have had years of experience screening foreign investment, such as the US, France and Germany. Moreover, the European Regulation of 19 March 2019 establishing a framework for the screening of foreign direct investment in the European Union provides useful levers for the future Belgian mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u127	Indeed, Europe now allows each member to set up a procedure for filtering foreign investment. In Europe, 13 states already have such a mechanism, France and Germany in particular. This had also allowed France to block, in January, the acquisition by an American group of Photonis, which specializes in military electronics. It is therefore time for our country to follow suit in order to avoid being in the lead. Of course, we expect you to stand firm on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u128	Thank you for your answer, Minister, but it remained very superficial and vague. I have received few specific answers to my questions. It hasn't gone down in the depths. It is important that we get to work very quickly, because the screening mechanism is really needed to tackle the problem of the vulnerability of our companies. I'm disappointed in your answer. I had hoped for a little more detail and depth.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u129	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers, we are approaching the end of the committee. It is therefore difficult to go into more detail about the questions. Identifying zombie companies is not an easy exercise. There are different definitions. Some companies are also temporarily identified as zombie companies, while they are effectively developing into a profitable, solvent company. I would also like to stress that the aid measures would have been a solution to a temporary and unexpected problem. I remain convinced that the broad support was justified. As in the neighbouring countries, we lacked the necessary space to evaluate companies in such a short period of time. We have done our best to focus aid on those companies that were most in need of it. It is important to be careful in this respect. I do not want to take the risk that companies that are temporarily in difficulty will be excluded from the aid mechanisms. On the issue that you raise, I would like to inform you that various services will closely monitor the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises or CBO, in order to detect and eliminate ghost companies. These are companies that are no longer active, which can encourage tax and social security fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u130	Mr President, Minister, it is as I said in the question. Apparently, three or four catering shops in the province of Antwerp, which were unhealthy for the corona period, are suddenly doing well. That is a very strange phenomenon. This is certainly thanks to the support measures, which were absolutely necessary in the first instance and which certainly helped a lot of companies. However, we must be very careful. As far as the zombie companies are concerned, this is a ball that can be rolling. They will infect healthy farms. In this way, we will make sure that healthy businesses are able to compete. There are also funds put into those companies to which they have absolutely no right and which someone will ever have to pay. I therefore call for absolute caution in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u131	It looks like we are going to finish the full agenda today, which is good news. We have learned a lot from crises in the past and I refer to the 1930s, the 1970s and the 2008 banking crisis, which has led to a different economic approach to the Covid crisis from what was done in the past. I note, however, that a number of economists are concerned about a possible stag inflation. A stagflation means that economic growth is not similar to inflation and that unemployment does not fall further in the end. At the moment there is growth, but at the same time we can see that life is expensive or is becoming more expensive. How long is that growth going to last? How long will inflation continue to settle in the future? It is said that the United States would be the biggest contender for stag inflation, but that does not mean that Belgium would be spared. Do you share that concern of the economists? Do you think they're right? What has the government done to avoid stagflation? Are you concerned about the conduct of monetary policy, where the low interest rates held would by definition no longer mean additional economic growth?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u132	Mr Van Lommel, in August, inflation in Belgium increased to 2.73% as a result of the sharp rise in energy prices. On the basis of the latest monthly forecasts of the Federal Planning Office, monthly inflation would continue to rise until early 2022 to decrease from then on. Annual inflation would be 1.9% in 2021 and 2.1% in 2022. The European Central Bank also assumes that the surge of inflation is temporary in nature and is due to the sharp rise in energy prices as a result of the revival of our economy. According to the new forecasts of the Federal Planning Bureau, the Belgian economy will grow by 5.7% in 2021 and by 3% in 2022. Economic activity would reach its pre-corona level in the fourth quarter of this year. Almost all spending components contribute to this, but the catching-up of investment is most striking. Domestic employment would increase over the two years together with 73,000 people. At present, the risk of stagflation seems to be relatively limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u133	Minister, you are talking about growth and there is growth. We see and feel that everywhere. At the same time, we notice that life is effectively becoming more expensive. It is not just about the energy bill, because it is also noticed when shopping. The question is whether or not this is temporary. Inflation is not always temporary. I remember very well that you underestimated inflation very much in the past in this committee. I see that you have had to adjust your figures to two or three months. I am pleased that you consider the risk of stagflation to be limited. However, I believe, Minister, that we should be careful to maintain very low interest rates for a very long time. If market supply cannot follow market demand, this may lead to stag inflation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u134	Minister, this is an important issue, since the deadline for coronavirus vouchers represents a real sword of Damocles above the head of our travel agencies. Indeed, the amount to be repaid is enormous. Several agencies may end up in default or even in bankruptcy. In addition, the Travel Guarantee Fund is not in a position to cover the entire budget. I have asked you regularly, minister, about this. You told me that with your colleagues Eva De Bleeker and Vincent Van Peteghem, you were working on a solution for the sector. What is the status of these discussions? What are the proposals put on the table? A few months ago, Mrs De Bleeker told us about a first measure, that of the possibility of granting zero-rate loans to agencies in difficulty. Do you know more? Collaboration with the insurance sector is also fundamental in this case, in particular with Assuralia. Can you give us the details? It is essential to respond today, in the light of this sector which is really being tested.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the possibility of a loan mechanism has indeed been envisaged from last spring. It has been studied in depth with my colleagues Vincent Van Peteghem and Eva De Bleeker and has been the subject of intense negotiations with the industry and the insurers against insolvency before the summer holidays and again in September. The technical constraints and rules governing the insurance sector have prompted us to refine our proposal several times and to be flexible on many provisions. To date, however, we have not yet been able to reach a satisfactory agreement for all parties. I believe that I am aware that time is running out and that the sector is waiting for our support, but I cannot prejudge the outcome of the final negotiations that are still under way. I can only confirm to you that a decision must be taken shortly on whether or not to implement this loan mechanism. In close cooperation with the travel and insurance sectors, with my colleagues the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection, we are looking for concrete solutions to address this issue. For the moment, unfortunately, I cannot give you any specific information on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u136	Mr Minister, I regret that because you realize that it is a whole series of agencies that risk putting the key under the doormat. After this long crisis, it's really catastrophic. I can only invite you once again to save time and find a solution in the coming days, because the deadline will fall in the coming days. It is absolutely necessary to find a solution or it will be an economic and social tragedy. I invite you to work in the hours and days that come to a real solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u137	Mr. President, Minister, Since the 1990s, insurers have issued disaster bonds. An insurer issues an obligation through an investment bank, which is sold to investors. As with any obligation, the issuing authority pays interest to buyers in return for the money they lend to it. If a disaster occurs, under contract-specified spatio-temporal parameters, investors lose their money, which will be used to repay the victims. In the event that the disaster does not occur, or if it occurs outside the defined spatial-temporal parameters, the investor seizes the interest and recovers the principal when the bond matures. Why are investors interested in these securities? Risk diversification is the main argument put forward. Climate risks are supposed not to be correlated with other types of risks, such as financial crises. This "decoration" is not always proven: a hurricane can affect the economic and financial activity of a region. Disaster bonds could then lead to a systemic crisis. Do active insurance companies in Belgium issue disaster bonds? If so, what is the total value of the bonds issued by each insurance undertaking active in Belgium? Disaster bonds are assessed by rating agencies. What are the ratings for disaster bonds issued by insurance companies active in Belgium? Did the July floods cause a loss of capital for investors who bought disaster bonds? If so, for what amount? Is the issuance of disaster bonds monitored by the FSMA or the BNB? If so, can you explain the nature of this monitoring?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u138	Mr President, Mr D'Amico, I asked the National Bank of Belgium and the FSMA about the issue of "disaster" bonds by insurance companies. Global reinsurance accounts for approximately $650 billion. Of this amount, there would be approximately $30 billion in cat bonds or "disaster" bonds. According to BNB, it does not appear that Belgian insurance undertakings have made such issues and, in any event, not significantly. Disaster bonds are of interest to insurers and reinsurers in order to better cover the risks of natural disasters and thus to finance more after a disaster has occurred. The FSMA, which is competent to control the marketing of financial products to retail customers, is not aware of transactions involving "disaster" obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u139	Minister, thank you. It is known that the AXA insurer has carried out at least four bond programs since 2007 and among these programs, there is Osiris Capital which has enabled the insurer to obtain a billion euros in the financial market by plugging in on the risk of overmortality. I am very concerned about this type of financial securities and about the control of public authorities over them. We have already contacted the FSMA who sent us back to the BNB. We are going to contact her, but we are also counting on you, Minister, to keep an eye on this issue. In addition to the risks of financial bubbles, I am not telling you that I am shocked enough to discover these kinds of transactions in the financial market. I do not understand that we can speculate on death or natural disasters, and I wonder whether there is such an obligation that has allowed insurers to make money as a result of the floods in July.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic583x.u140	The agenda is complete. All questions which have not been asked and have not been converted into a written question have lapsed.
