ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the thickness of the agenda, I propose that we show the necessary discipline as to the duration of the interventions. I'll be more careful with that than usual.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u2	Madam Secretary, the attractiveness of the military profession is high on the political agenda. The previous government already decided in June 2020 to award meal vouchers to candidate, professional and reserve soldiers in so-called normal service, not if they are in training or surgery, because they will then be reimbursed in a different way. With this reform, Defence hoped to be relieved of the administrative burden associated with the old system of meal allowances and also to achieve greater compliance with the current labour market. These cheques should normally have been distributed to the military from October onwards. Unfortunately, there seems to be a kink in the cable somewhere in the process. Madam Secretary, is it true that there is a delay? When will there be meal checks for the military? What caused the delay? Is there a deadline? You are strongly committed to expanding the civilian personnel of the Defense Department. However, no similar system would be developed for them. Is that right? Are there any measures taken by your predecessor Goffin to improve the military status, which have not yet been implemented? If so, which one? These are my first questions about the meal cheques. What about the promises that were made? Why haven't they been introduced yet? Could you also explain the cost of this operation? Then I come to my questions about the POP plan, People Our Priority, which you launched. On 4 February, you presented that plan to the trade unions. I read in the trade union papers that people are generally satisfied, but that they are, of course, waiting for implementation. Suggesting plans is a matter of course, and implementing them is something else. You provide for six adjustments to the Staff Regulations, ranging from the introduction of meal cheques to a simplified reimbursement of medical costs. However, the flagship measure of this plan is the alignment of salaries with that of police officers by 2024. We've been hearing that for years. You say you'll do this now. The key question at the time of the announcement of your plan is whether this investment in the staff can be realised within the envelope, due to the margin resulting from the reduction in the workforce and the retirement of the military with higher wages. Can you explain the POP plan, which you previously presented to the trade unions? What are the deadlines for implementation of these initiatives? Will the increase in wages be in line with the budget path you announced when you took office? Or will the government have to invest additional in Defence in 2022, 2023 and 2024? If this happens within the Defence budget, will there be shifts to the personnel envelope? Or can this be done within the funding already planned? Has agreement been reached on which of the police's baremas exactly correspond to this? If so, how much will the average wage adjustment be for the defence personnel? After all, that was the great promise. What does that mean, however? You provide allowances for participation in operations, meal vouchers worth 6 euros per day, a bonus of 75 euros per month for instructors and an incentive premium for bottleneck professions. What is the total cost of your plan? The removal allowance was not included in the programme, although agreement was reached last year with the Defence Summit. There would even be amounts for them to be budgeted. This concerns the movement to remote barracks. Will this grant still be rolled out next to the POP plan or do you consider that plan to be the final agreement for improving the betting of the military? Has the removal allowance now been moved to the background and is not there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u3	Madam Secretary, recruitment is the absolute priority for the following years. I have tabled a series of questions on this subject. What exactly is in the POP plan? What timeline do you provide for that? The plan was announced a few weeks ago. In the meantime, how far are we and what timing do you provide for this? For the rest, I agree with Mr Francken's similar questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u4	Madam Minister, in June 2020, before your arrival, the social dialogue was concluded on a number of personnel initiatives that directly affect the attraction of the military profession. This concerns not only meal cheques but also the kind of'matching' with the labour market and the associated administrative simplification. The series of measures concerned the introduction of meal cheques, the introduction of a residence-work-distance removal allowance and the increase in wagers, allowances and allowances for the military under the reserve framework. That last point has now been made. As the reserves have been used little or no in the past period, this has obviously had less budgetary impact than foreseen. However, the introduction of the other measures was delayed. The Information Note to the Staff of June 2020 also indicated that the citizens of Defence would not be forgotten and that initiatives in this direction would take place. That was literally in this note. In your policy statement, you also announced that you would take initiatives to increase civilian personnel in Defense. Do you recognise the delay in the introduction of the above measures? If so, what is the cause of this and when will it be introduced? What is the state of play with regard to initiatives in this area for the citizens of Defence? What amount will be used per meal check? That's not unimportant to the personnel in question. At first it was 8 euros. That's what it said in the memo to the staff. Now it turns out to be 6 euros. I'd like to get more information on that. Will a meal check also be awarded for distance work? I come to my second question, which relates to the People Our Priority Plan or the POP Plan. That is a very important point of attention. You announced this in the press and presented it to the military trade union organizations, which are quite positive, about the announcement at least. We will be able to evaluate the implementation afterwards. Could you briefly explain the POP plan, with the necessary points of interest? What is the state of play with regard to social dialogue and the timeline to be followed in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u5	Mr President, Minister, as most Members have said, the workforce is one of the greatest challenges facing you. I have the impression that you have already clearly taken the bull by the horns and with your People Our Priority plan. I agree with the questions put by the other Members, but I have one more question. More soldiers means more recruits and a particularly important role for the instructors. What's their share of this plan? After all, it is their responsibility to ensure that we have a well-equipped army.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u6	All Members who have put a question have asked them. Mr Lacroix also wishes to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u7	Mr President, the Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for giving me the floor in this topical debate. I must inform you that my colleague, Huges Bayet, cannot be present today because he is suffering. So I'm going to succeed him without replacing him. Minister, I would like to ask you about the speed with which you echoed your general policy note that you presented to the House a few weeks ago, since you took up your duties in October. At the time, you had already stated that you wanted to put the woman and the man, and therefore the human, at the heart of our Defence's priorities. On February 4, you announced the launch of a plan to upgrade Defence personnel called POP (People Our Priority). Through this plan, which has been welcomed and expected for many years by the military and civilian defence personnel, but also by the social partners, you intend to strengthen the attractiveness of the military profession and the recapitalisation of the personnel, which is obviously vital to ensure the future of Defence. One of the main objectives of the plan is to ensure that staff receive the first financial effects as soon as possible, for example this year with the introduction in the second half of the year of meal vouchers worth €6. As part of this plan, in addition to the gradual salary increase from 2022 to achieve full pay alignment with the police in 2024, you mentioned, among other things, a incentive bonus at the time of the commitment to be allocated to candidates who are engaged in jobs in need. Could you give us more information on the amount of this premium and on the specific occupations targeted? When will this premium be effective, as will the instructor allowance of 75 euros net per month or the increase in allowances for intensive services, permanences, operations and night guards? Could you, in any event, provide us with a clear timetable for the implementation of all these important measures for Defence personnel?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I naturally agree with the many questions raised to clarify and clarify the POP plan. Of course, our group would like to give its approval to the plan. It also bears the approval of the staff and the trade unions. After all, the remuneration of the military has been stagnated for a long time. Now there will be an upgrade of the statute. You're making a catch-up move and putting a line under the years of savings at the Department of Defense. We note that many soldiers will be able to rely on simplified procedures for reimbursement of health costs. You'll award me dinner cheques. In addition, the risks that military personnel often take will be valorised. Supplements and additional premiums will be charged. At least the plan is a good thing. You have our full support in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u9	Mr President, this is a comprehensive plan and I assume that it also incorporates physical well-being, material well-being, security well-being and moral well-being, with psychological support and with the guarantee of respect for the political and philosophical convictions of all within Defence. We're talking less about it, but I guess the minister has integrated that dimension as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, a staff recapitalisation is vital to ensure the future of Defence. Too long of disinvestment in staff has resulted in the current human resources situation. That is why staff will be the priority of this legislature. Several initiatives are being taken in the coming months. Firstly, there is a significant increase in recruitment. Defence will employ 2,500 soldiers on an annual basis, but will also recruit more civilian personnel. The aim is to bring the share of civilian personnel to 15% of the total Defence workforce. Thus, the high workload will gradually decrease. Attracting sufficient new staff is a must, but it is much more than just a quantitative exercise. It is at least as important to attract people with the right competences. The remuneration of the military is part of this and is currently being studied in the context of the attractiveness of the military profession, in order to achieve a market and competitive level. The "People are priority" plan includes a series of initiatives. It covers lunch vouchers of 6 euros, an increase of 15 per cent in operational deployment, intensive service, guard and night watchman allowances, as well as the introduction of an allowance for instructors of 75 euros net and the introduction of a financial incentive for recruitment for very difficult functions. In addition, we are going to simplify the procedures for reimbursement of medical costs and a new form of reimbursement of medical costs for staff posted outside the European Economic Area. A bet review is also planned, whereby a match is made between the military's bets and the police's bets. The aim is to achieve all this during this legislature. This will be done as soon as possible before the bet review. This means that military forces, regardless of their personnel category, will see this concretely in 2022 on their paycheck and in their wallets, in order to be in regime by 2024. Meal vouchers and increased allowances are expected to be in place in 2021 as these initiatives are already relatively well advanced. The development of the concept is only beginning with regard to the allocation of instructors and the recruitment of difficult-to-find profiles. Defence staff enjoy numerous benefits through the Central Social and Cultural Action Service. Access to these benefits must also be simplified so that the defence staff can make full use of them. In addition, additional benefits are examined, such as a refund of the membership fee of a sports club. Particular attention will also be paid to the establishment of a uniform statute for intelligence services in order to deal as effectively and efficiently as possible with the threats facing our country in this area. All this will take place within the current budgetary trajectory, with or without redeployments, without compromising budgetary coherence. In order not to cause discrimination within the current population, the slope of the removal fee is not continued. Trade union organisations are closely involved in the analysis and implementation of these initiatives. For the issue of the review, the talks between Defence and Trade Unions started on 12 February 2021 and negotiations will formally begin next week. The aim is to compare defence proposals and trade unions' proposals with one another and then to try to come up with a common proposal for a revision of the bet. We must then go through administrative and budgetary control here too. This plan, which I have committed myself to implementing in my political guidance note, is now being implemented only six months after I took office. I look forward to it, as do you, I hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u11	Thank you for your answer, which is relatively short. I agree, of course. If a better statute can be achieved, the N-VA will also support it. I note that the removal fee will not be further investigated. It's been stopped. I also note that the meal cheques will be introduced in 2021. Will this be the same for civilian personnel? That's not clear to me. You say that you are already relatively advanced in introducing meal cheques. Do you have a deadline for this? When will that system be introduced? I didn't get an answer to that, although I did ask. What about civilian personnel? I didn't get an answer to that either. You say that you want to take the first step in 2022 in relation to the increase in wages, in the context of the alignment with the police office. We are talking about a specific increase in wages. I think that's a good thing. You say you're negotiating. You started on 19 February 2021. The official start is scheduled for next week. You will see what they ask, what you have, and make a comparison on that basis. That's fine. The membership fee for a sports club is also reviewed. That's very good. I think it is particularly important that physical tests be re-established as soon as possible, but we will have that debate later. The most important aspect I do not get an answer to is the budgetary framework. How much million do you have at your disposal to pay for this? Is this proportionate to the retirements of the military with higher wages? Is this being paid for because more people are retiring? Defense also recruits a lot of new recruits, they have to be paid, don't they? I didn't get a single answer to that. What is your budgetary margin? Will you have to ask for a budget in the budget format 2022, 2023, 2024? I didn't get an answer to that either. I find it odd that you say that everyone will agree that we will have better staff regulations. Of course, I'm just wondering if you have any money for that. I didn't get any answers to all these questions. I regret that. That is why I will have to put forward new questions, which I hope we will be able to ask as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u12	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. You started your answer by saying that it is vital. I think so, too. This yard is absolutely vital. In the field of recruitment, the challenges are enormous. With the current offer of new recruits, I don't think we're gonna get there and we're gonna keep fighting our police, for example. Putting that kind of thing on the agenda is a sign of respect and gratitude to our military. They have been standing in the front row for the last few months to provide help everywhere. Your package is well put together, Madam Secretary. I also welcome the fact that you have already put a specific date on it: in 2022 the first results of the implementation of this plan must be visible and in 2024 it must be at cruising speed. This shows once again that this is very urgent and important. From our group and from the government, you have every support, and I think it is a clear signal from our government to the military that we are really doing our best for them and that we really appreciate what they are doing every day. The current shortage of staff, on which we hear daily stories, must be resolved as quickly as possible, especially in the light of the upcoming wave of retirement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u13	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. It has been said many times, but it remains crucial: facilitating recruitment and countering attrition remain absolute priorities for the future of Defence. You are also making it a priority in your policy, but your answer to this very important question is somewhat disappointing because of the vagueness of the timeline and compensation for civilian staff. You say that you are aiming for 15% civilian staff to relieve the tasks, but you do not indicate how you will actually attract those civilian staff. The question of why the situation with the meal cheques was so much delayed was not answered either. It remains for us, committee members, to watch coffee. According to a Flemish saying makes many promises and few give the fools live in joy. I hope that this does not happen with regard to the soldiers who have to ensure our security day after day and in difficult circumstances. They are already doing this with far too few staff, and there is also too little staff to train new forces. The workload of the staff is therefore particularly high and the fact that these removal allowances are removed is not exactly a recruiting element of the recruitment policy. Neither is lowering the value of the meal cheques. So I am absolutely not satisfied with your answer. We will be able to evaluate the concrete implementation of the POP plan when following your concrete policy actions. Your budgetary plan also remains vague, and I do not think we have received any answers in this respect, which I regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is encouraging to see that things are moving in the right direction for Defence women and men, and within a short time. Ten thousand new recruits in four years, it is a goal that requires strong action to make the career attractive within the army. More than that, it is also a demonstration of our respect and appreciation for our troops, especially in this delicate and difficult period. Today, our army is at the side of the authorities to accompany them in the fight against the pandemic. She does not count on her medical and logistical expertise. We can take advantage of this topical debate to thank them, as well as all those who are committed to helping the Nation. To upgrade the military profession is to have the staff as a priority. This is true not only for salaries but also for infrastructure. That is how we will be able to put in place the conditions necessary to have a more effective army because actually respected. We will follow this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u15	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I have the feeling that there is a fairly broad agreement with the plans that are in place today and their roll-out will certainly follow. It is also a priority, because we have reached a lower limit which means that the army cannot do its job as it wishes. I would like to comment on the trainers, because they will play a crucial role in the coming years. There have been some problems recently because they did not always have the appropriate profiles to fill in these functions. I am also informed that the disciplinary system is not really working. Some instructors then work on their own. I'm sure we'll talk about that later. In any case, you will appreciate their responsible role with a net allowance of 75 euros. That does indicate that you attach importance to this function. If they do a good job and the internal training within the Defence Department goes smoothly, it gives Defence the image of an attractive employer in the outside world.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u16	Madam Secretary, I believe we are on the right track. The military will receive a similar package as the police, not only in the first 3 years but in the long run also fully. Important first steps are being taken here. Giving a meal check to the staff is in fact a trick, but it is something that is done everywhere. That 160 euros a month net gives the military a little extra 2,000 euros each year. That's a nice step. Social dialogue must also be given full scope. There will also need to be a budgetary adjustment, because you will soon need EUR 250 million to bring the statute really into line with what the police people now have. The military do deserve that and these statutes should be comparable. In the long term, these statutes could even converge. That is what the military really want, that they are rewarded at the same level as the policemen. We need to work towards this step-by-step, and our group welcomes the Minister's first steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u17	Mr President, I would like to thank the minister for her answer and to say that my group is fully satisfied with it. To date, National Defence personnel, military personnel and civilian personnel have always been a budgetary adjustment variable. We have acquired equipment, your predecessors have acquired equipment, make you pay for it to you and your government colleagues – they have abandoned the bill – and they have made Defence, and in particular human resources, a veritable gruyère with a phenomenon of attrition that has not been known for years, with a lack of mastery of problems related to the age pyramid. You, on the other hand, are proposing concrete measures, which, contrary to what I have heard, are well provided for in the 2021 budget, are phased over time, in the various budgetary years until 2024, you have agreed with the trade union organisations. You have fulfilled your duty and the trade union organisations are the best barometer: they are positive in relation to these measures that will not only increase the attractiveness of the Defence – and I think at some point it would be very interesting to know the number of applicants compared to the number of positions implemented and the recruitments. I think we will already be able to see to what extent the attractiveness of the military function, of National Defence, will have increased as a result of these measures. You are improving the well-being of National Defence workers and their purchasing power. These measures are extremely positive and we thank you, on behalf of the Socialist Group, for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u18	Colleagues, I'm trying to monitor the speed of meetings. The Minister is asking for the floor again. In a topical debate there are the questions, the Minister's answer and then the replies of Members of Parliament. If the Minister asks to speak and the members of the committee agree to give her that again, I will do so. I cannot, of course, avoid having to reply again afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u19	Me, it's to answer your questions and be as transparent as possible. I realized that some things were not well understood. So I'll make them clear. With regard to meal vouchers, a question had been asked about civilian staff. This is part of the jurisdiction of the Minister of the Public Service. For our part, within the firm, contacts have been made and discussions are being held with the Minister of the Public Service to ensure that these meal vouchers can also be assigned to civilian staff as quickly as possible. There was a real willingness in the head of the Minister of the Public Service to propose meal vouchers for public servants as well. So I think it's on track, but I can't tell you a date. For military mealchecks, the idea is that the system will come into effect in the second half of this year. The public procurement will be launched. I therefore believe that the meal vouchers will soon be awarded to our military. As I said a few months ago, I want a comprehensive view of personnel policy. I promised, very quickly, to formulate a comprehensive proposal, which I am doing. I hear that some people are pointing to potentially negative aspects. On the contrary, I consider it to be progress. At the time, some subjects had been discussed under the previous government, but they had not been successful. Nothing had been decided at the government level. We had work bases but we had to be able to implement them and, above all, we had to put them in a comprehensive framework that also included salary alignment with the police. Why do we come to a lunch check for 6 euros? That is, because the will is to be able to attribute them to the civilian level. It seems that at the level of the police too, of the officials, there are discussions of 6 euros meal vouchers. With regard to the removal premium, it was not retained at this stage. It did not cover all categories of our staff. Then, as you will have noted in the Policy Note, my goal is to find a better balance between professional and private life, i.e. to bring our soldiers as close as possible to their place of life when they are not in operation. From then on, the remoteness premium no longer really makes sense. The means which were, on the other hand, dedicated to this remoteness premium have not been handed over in a budget, they are devoted to aligning the salaries of the military with those of the police, which are negotiated in close cooperation with our unions. The trainers have a crucial role for me in Defence. We give them a bonus here. It's a first step, but it won't be enough. We must be able to recognize the role of these trainers, which is important, especially for our many young recruits. With regard to Mr. Lacroix's question, out of 2,500 posts opened in 2021, we already have more than 4,200 applicants. This is double last year. This is proof that Defence can still attract, that communication is important and that many young people are now in the labour market. The latter see Defence as an opportunity, a prospect for the future, a means of training or training for a career, staying there for a few years and then being able to flourish elsewhere. I heard things that hurt me. I have a legacy of a series of problems that have not been addressed in previous years, and that I am busy solving. I'm not the one who disinvested in Defense! Today I am trying to rebuild the Defence, I am trying to recognize its primary role and that of the men and women who make up it. Among the 4,200 applicants, there is an increase of more than 2 per cent in the number of women. I told you two or three months ago and today it's negotiated and it's done with the unions. In the coming months, we will see the first effects with mealchecks and, gradually, there will be a salary increase over the next few years. It's an aspect of the personal package. Next to this, we will also work to improve the working environment, to renovate the infrastructure, to make our staff feel good and want to stay. There is absolutely no delay in my leader. On the contrary, we did it as quickly as possible because we know that it is of crucial importance and we know that a legislature is short. We want to be able to implement this as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u20	I cannot finish the debate exactly yet, so I would like to give the floor to Mr Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u21	Mr President, it is important that we have received additional answers, which was not the case at first. So I'm satisfied with that. You're very committed, Madam Secretary. You've clearly mastered the file and you're working on it. I like that. You're fighting for the staff. I like that. I do not agree with Mr Lacroix who says that it was all a mess and that nothing has been done for the staff. Of course, I do not agree with that. Indeed, we have mainly invested in infrastructure and made some essential purchases of military equipment. We support the fact that there is now a movement for staff to catch up. That is what I said in the debate. You reply that you will try to introduce the meal cheques by 1 July 2021 and that the issue of citizens is for civil servants. You're in agreement with that. I will therefore put a question to the Minister of Civil Service, although I do not know who that is. From 2022 there will be an increase in everyone's wages. That's okay in itself. About the removal fee, you're saying that it's not really necessary anymore because there's barracks coming in. However, you will put that money into the general wage increase. That is not bad in itself, but the new barracks are not there yet, because you still have to decide where they are going and they still have to be built. We are still working on this for years to come, so the problem that some soldiers have to travel very far every day will not be solved in the coming years. The removal fee would therefore be very useful. Even if you have the ambition to resolve it in the long term, it will take at least five or six years. So that's a strange decision, but it's a political choice you're making. I have another question about the global financial picture. How will you pay for this? Do you have to ask the Council of Ministers for extra money or is all this budgeted? Of course, it is important to know that, but I have not yet received an answer. I also note that there are 4,200 candidates for 2,500 jobs, with 2% more female candidates than last year. That's a huge success. I hope the attrition drops. Mr Lacroix just said that the attrition in the previous legislature was disastrous, but I do not know if the attrition will really fall because the staff will receive a meal check. The attrition is a very important problem. The financial aspect is important, but I do not think that is the main reason why people in the Defense Department are dropping out. However, that will tell the future. I hope the selection goes well. For me it would have included physical tests, but we will discuss this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u22	I would like to inform you that Mrs De Sutter is the Minister of Civil Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u23	Mr President, I have one more question. Parliament does indeed have the last word. On the level of the meal cheques, the Minister said: 6 euros. I assume this is without a personal contribution. In the private sector, for example, there are 9 euro meal cheques. Then they themselves contribute a little more than 1 euro. So net one has 8 euros. That 6 euros, is that a net figure? If I estimate that for the number of soldiers we have, that would be a budgetary cost of around EUR 36 million. That's not a huge sum. Why isn't that raised? It would be wise to raise this amount because one does not have to pay patronial charges or social contributions and it is a net operation. So it would be better to raise that. I know the cops' meal cheques are at this level, but the police do have a number of other advantages. If we want to get a kick start on a better remuneration of the military, we better raise this amount to the maximum legal level as soon as possible. That's my point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u24	This concludes this topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u25	Mr President, this announcement – and I think I can say it easily in the Defence Committee – has had the effect of a bomb. This is all the more important because in our committee and in the Committee on Military Procurement under the previous legislature, many of us analysed the offers regarding the need to change our fleet of F-16. The statements of the U.S. Chief of Staff, Charles Brown, regarding the F-35's ability to effectively replace the F-16 leaves us puzzled. It would appear that many technical shortcomings would not allow an effective replacement to date, such as the American company and Defense, had committed themselves to doing so with our state. Minister, 34 F-35 will have to be delivered by 2024. It is a very important market for the Belgian army, and for the Belgian state. You have to get an answer. Not later than last week, I was reading in the echoes – and this is also the subject of one of my questions – that many economic benefits were to be expected from this purchase and the delivery of the F-35s. The questions today must be asked and are totally legitimate. First, how do you and the government intend to respond to this very worrying announcement? Second, how can we possibly receive adequate responses to the security of delivery of goods with a commitment to efficiency and operability? I think it's the least way to get answers on this. And the last question, Madam Minister, in terms of economic benefits, should we also be concerned about the effect of this worrying announcement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u26	Madam Secretary, I am not asking you today to do this to you. It is rather out of genuine concern about the future of our defence apparatus. As Mrs Jadin said, the statements of the US Air Force General Charles Brown Jr. in Forbes are the starting point for the topical debate. In short, he said that the F-35 did not become what he was meant to be, being a low cost light-weight fighter. The cost of about 77 million euros each and a good 30 000 euros per hour of flight are not directly covered by this definition. Brown compares the F-35 with a Ferrari that's too expensive to run the daily groceries. When one reads between the lines, one can conclude that he is actually looking for a kind of Volkswagen Golf to ride to the Delhaize, when needed. Madam Minister, first of all, how do you respond to the statements of the United States Air Force General and Forbes' conclusion that the F-35 programme actually failed? In other words, will we also do our shopping with a Ferrari or do we do it with something else? Secondly, what impact do you think this analysis has on our country? I think about budget and logistics. As you may have read, Brown is driving the development of an alternative fighter plane, which the Americans would call more fighter for your dollar. Of course, something like this has consequences for our country. I would like to know whether you take account of the fact that, for example, the cost of maintaining the F-35 could be considerably more expensive. I refer to the practice with the F-22. If I may, I would like to ask a further question. A number of groups will undoubtedly suggest that we refrain from purchasing the F-35. I'd like to know if you think that's a plausible way of thinking. What budgetary and operational implications would that have for our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u27	Madam Secretary, you just mentioned transparency. Let it be just transparency, which is missing from the dossier. It is the third time I have asked you to make the information available. What does the purchase file actually say? What's in the cancellation clauses? The public is entitled to that information, but at least the Members of Parliament and the members of the Committee on Defence have the right to know it. What is the current cost? What will the future cost be? After all, new defects are noted every month. Deficiencies are indeed being solved, but this is also, of course, associated with costs. Nor would we be the only country to withdraw from a purchasing procedure. Think of Canada, which pulled the plug when the signatures were placed and only during the real phase of the development of the device noticed that the price was fivefold. Think of Turkey and the United States, which have itself pulled the plug and have not delivered the 135s. There will also be ominous news about the Atlantic. Even the American Air Force states that the F-35 is not what she had hoped it would be. She wants to downgrade the orders herself. It also calls into question the F-35, because the aircraft remains very unreliable. Madam Secretary, there are still 871 faults and the plane has a very difficult time in the event of thunderstorm. Madam Secretary, you must pour ready wine once and for all. Will you publish the cancellation clauses and inform us about the actual cost as well as the final and estimated cost, when the F-35 A has been delivered in full? Will you effectively advocate the cancellation in your government, as you have always done before in the opposition, when you notice that this is the case? Do you not think that the billions of euro, which we will now invest in expensive and unreliable aircraft, could be better invested in existing needs and in economic revival as a result of the coronapandemic? Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u28	Mr President, I would like to apologize to the interpreters. Like the F-35s, I had a technical problem with my helmet and I have to use headphones. I hope the sound isn't too bad. As a reminder, if I asked for this debate, it is to give us the opportunity to address the F-35 issue in the Defence Committee from a not controversial but rather a technical point of view. I thank the minister for playing the game, because we must never fear the debate, even if it is difficult, so that we can get a number of clarifications. It is nevertheless useful to recall that the renewal of the air component is fundamental, be it the A400M, the replacement of the F-16 – which I was one of the first to claim a few years ago. It's essential to our defense. It is also a question of recalling the terms of the contract. I hear a number of colleagues say that the F-35 was a bad choice. It's the best choice. From the moment Gripen and Dassault withdraw from the market, remain in the run the F-35, the F-18 and the Eurofighter. It's clear that the best plane, there's no picture, it's the F-35. For this reason, no one in this majority will claim the termination of this contract because we need this F-35. However, this does not imply that there should be no debate. We need a debate and I think it's one day to be marked with a white stone because, when the PTB rehearses the words of General Brown, boss of the U.S. Air Force, it has a rather special symbolism, but it is part of the debate. What do these words say? They're not just advancing the U.S. Air Force believes that the F-35 should be disposed of in the garbage. They tell us that they will order a little less than 1700 rather than 3000, and that a number of questions arise. They're talking about the hourly cost. It's on these elements...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u29	Mr. Ducrame, can you finalize, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u30	Mr President, is this a topical debate or not? If this is an up-to-date debate, I think it is possible to develop the point on the map a little bit or do we just stay on the surface?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u31	Mr Ducarme, at the start of the first topical debate, I proposed that speaking time should be strictly monitored. The committee followed me in that. It therefore seems logical to me that I should strictly observe this and that a reply should last for two minutes. In the meantime, you are going a minute late, and I would therefore ask you to come to a close.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u32	I note that, on a file such as that of the F-35 with the technical elements that emerge from it, the choice of the commission is to surf the file. I shall therefore go straight to the heart of the matter, and if you will, Mr President, I shall conclude with the concrete elements. The hourly cost! This is what is under negotiation between the US Air Force and Lockheed Martin. It's about 35,000 euros. The US Air Force boss, General Brown, wants the hourly cost to be lower. There is no reason why it is less important for the US Air Force than for Belgium! Minister, have you followed these hourly cost negotiations in order to have the same conditions as the US Air Force with respect to such a significant hourly cost? What about the technical problems of the F-35 that remained outstanding? I'm talking about the last study in 2018 on the f-35 imperfections that related to the ejectable seat, the attachment of the engine, the visor of the pilot's helmet - helmet whose price is around $300,000! It is a question of having, in relation to these imperfections, additional information that you could give us. Will the decline in the US Air Force's planned order have an impact on the delivery of the F-35s and the pace of deliveries for Belgium? We know that large-scale production has an impact on cost and can have on the timing. If I do not have more time to get into the subject that is useful, namely the technical elements, that is what I have been able to gather in a minimum of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u33	Mr President, if I understand the Rules of Procedure, I have eight minutes. I have noticed that Mr Ducrame has been given three times his speaking time, but I will not go up to 24 minutes - eight minutes and not six as indicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u34	You can be shorter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u35	Mr President, excuse me, but at that time we can also put seven separate questions on the same subject! At some point, I think that what has been agreed upon must be respected. I think that each group has the right to express itself fairly, but abuse should be avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u36	That's right, and I'm also trying to be flexible. You've had four minutes, Mrs. Jadin. I also let Mr Ducarme go three minutes late. So I really do think I'm flexible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u37	Mr President, this is an up-to-date debate, so I'm going to get a little bit out of the text of my questions. I just mean, it's time to revise this contract. The one who derogates today under this contract is not Belgium, it is Lockheed Martin. What we are being offered to acquire today is not at all what we were presented with in the discussions on the call for tenders to replace our F-16s. We were told first that we had obtained this plane at a price defying all competition, that we had obtained an extraordinary discount. However, I see today, according to various American and other sources, that we have acquired this aircraft at EUR 76.3 million, whereas these aircraft are now selling on the market at EUR 65.4 million. They are therefore much cheaper today than what we have obtained as a prize. So we did not receive an extraordinary prize! Second element, the price of the flight hour. I can still hear Colonel Van Pee saying that the price of flying time would only be 30 per cent more. He also said that, as these aircraft would fly less, we would be about in the budget that we know today, that is to say 229 million euros per year, rather than 222 million euros per year. We're not in there at all. The figures are much higher than those mentioned by Mr Ducarme. These prices were established on the basis of actual costs. We are talking about the F-35 A, Madam Minister, and not about other models. Therefore, we have an actual flight hour price of $43,123 to be accurate, compared to the F-16 flight hour price over the same period of $22,000. So we're double the price of the flying hour in dollars. I made a rule of three: even considering that these aircraft only fly 8 000 hours a year in total over the entire fleet, compared to 12 000 hours with the F-16, we get an increase in the overall envelope of this contract, compared to the total cost of using these F-16s over forty years, by EUR 4.24 billion! We are therefore moving from a contract of 11 billion euros to a contract of 15 billion euros. That's the price of a carrier, minister! We are using an absolutely phenomenal budget increase that was not planned at all, neither in your budget nor in the budget, nor in what had been said to the House. Thirdly, it is true that the technical developments of this aircraft pose a lot of problems. I am not going to go back to all these technical developments, but I cannot hear the idea that these technical developments would be normal and had been considered like this. No! The evidence is that this aircraft is still not developed at full capacity. We are still developing it in reduced capacities because it is still not at the point, while we are well beyond the date that had originally been imagined to have an aircraft at the point and production chains at full capacity. So that's not in line with what was planned at all. Fourthly, with regard to industrial returns - you mentioned it in plenary - we have 400 million euros and I hear the Embassy of the United States which, no later than yesterday, makes a dithyrambic statement in these terms, no doubt in anticipation of our committee today: "we are pleased that Belgian industry currently contributes to the production and the assembly of the F-35, and happy to see that the F-35 will bring even more economic benefits to Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels". That's a lie. We are not at all in the process of assembling or producing the F-35. We have industrial returns valued at 400 million euros. We are therefore not at all in the 3.8 billion that had been advanced. Over 15 years, for the three large companies, ASCO, Sonaca and SABCA, this represents 9 million euros per year. To make a comparison, the Sonaca will lose this year, compared to its turnover, 400 million euros. We're bringing him a 9 million euro contract, in the best case. Indeed, in order to be able to produce these famous rear fins of the F-35, these companies still have to obtain an authorization from BAE Systems since it is this company that produces these fins today. Fifth point. What is the status of the $300 million to be set aside for participation in FASD? I hear that those who have been at the beginning of the development of SCAF do not want Belgium today. They were very upset, in particular France, about how they were treated during the call for tenders. I would therefore like to know where we are in the use of this 300 million reserve. Sixth point. It was said that the F-16s were out of date. Production chains would stop by 2020 at the latest (it was said first in 2017). It's just the opposite. The F-16 production lines are redeveloping. It is a plane that many people have bought in the meantime: Taiwan, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Morocco, etc. I also recall that Lockheed Martin had conducted an investigation in February 2018 showing that our F-16s could be extended by 27 years. Mr President, with regard to all these shortcomings, it was no longer the plane that had been sold to us. I think we have the right to review this contract, minister. As parliamentarians, we have the right to know what would be the consequences of a contract revision. I do not necessarily ask that this order be completely cancelled. I simply note that the F-35 is a Ferrari that will be of very little use on the battlefields and in the places where we usually operate, in Afghanistan, Syria, Iraq. It's a plane we'll hesitate to fly because it's very expensive. I ask that the contract be reviewed, that we check if it is possible, that we keep it for the nuclear port. Actually, that's what we're paying for, it's the B-6112 nuclear port that's in Kleine-Brogel. We are also paying for the fact that our contribution to NATO is extremely weak and that's why we bought those planes! I ask that in a time when we need money, this contract be reviewed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u38	Madam Secretary, when it comes to the F-35, we could have a very long debate. I won't do that. I will not have a retrospective debate on then, because that makes little sense, although of course I must admit that Mr Brown's statements have not helped. Afterwards, he nuanced them and stated that he was partly misunderstood. Ladies and gentlemen, the picture of the Ferrari is very clear to me. However, the message was not meant for us. It was intended primarily for the American rulers, to indicate that he wanted more diversification in the range of devices available to the American army. I understand. When the army will have 1,800 F-35s, that is quite different from the comparison with a country like ours that has a budget for 34 such devices. After all, we do not have the luxury that Mr Brown has. We bought the planes. Period. We now expect quality. It does not help in this respect to have to read constantly in the press about shortcomings and about a number of things that need to be put right, with the ever soothing message that everything is going to be okay. I understand that in Ramstein there is now a meeting with the Defense Department about the purchase. I won't complain about the purchase myself, but I expect clarity. I expect some clarity from Lockheed Martin about where we are now. I also expect ready-made wine from the Defense Department about operationality and efficiency in the context of Brown's statements. Madam Secretary, in particular, I expect you to keep the invoice under control within the contract concluded. This is, after all, the important consequence of any shortcomings. My questions have therefore been asked to a large extent. Where are we on the payoff now? Are we still on the proposed monitoring committee schedule? Do the deficiencies also have an impact on the budget that will be needed to complete the purchase?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u39	I am surprised that we are having another topical debate on these F-35s in March 2021. We are conducting this debate on the basis of two issues which have been completely removed from the context. First there's the interview with General Brown. That has been referred to many times. That has already been flatly nuanced and analyzed. It turned out that there were a number of other things that were said before in the press. In addition, there is the Pentagon report of January. This speaks of 871 deficiencies that the aircraft still has. On the basis of these two issues, which are drawn out of context each time and again today, we are now holding a new debate. First and foremost, we must try to put ourselves in a very good position in the American situation, which is different. There is a major debate on a 15-year contract, a five-year agreement, which is renewable twice by five years. So that's a maintenance contract for the F-35 of billions. This needs to be looked at against that background. Secondly, it is somewhat underestimated that there is another important military aircraft manufacturer in the US, namely Boeing. They want a piece of the cake, of course. Too often we ignore that reality. However one looks at it and how often one rereads it and in any language, General Brown has said that the F-35 remains the cornerstone of the U.S. Airforce. He has said that clearly, and that is also about one of the only things that has survived after all the nuances that have emerged. Moreover, no decision has yet been taken to reduce the number of F-35s. In any case, that remains a device that will be built many thousands of times on the basis of the current state of affairs. That is, by the way, a very important element. The general said not only that it's a cornerstone, but that it's a Ferrari. So that's top quality. There it is shown that this is a completely different situation. Belgium has opted for one fighter, while the US has F-35's, F-22's and F-15's. It's like a family that drives a Ferrari on Sundays, drives a Volkswagen to the Colruyt every week and feeds the kids around with a little BMW. I'll come to my decision. In the reply, I might say something about that report. I'm just gonna go over my questions. Madam Minister, some of us here today are pretending to have an alternative, for example the F-16 Viper. It costs the same amount per aircraft, so don't make any illusions that it's an alternative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u40	Mr Pillen, I suggest that you simply refer to your written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u41	I also note that you are interrupting me after one minute, but that was not the case when Mr Francken passed over more than one minute. That is also an observation, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u42	Mr Francken has not gone over the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u43	I've been watching that all along, Mr President. He just went red for over a minute. Not for me, as long as the rules are the same for everyone. If the rules à la tête du client are applied, I would ask you...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u44	Mr. Pills, would you please finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u45	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to know, Madam Secretary, if there have been any contacts with the Americans in recent days as a result of this interview? Has there been any mention of maintenance contracts, of flight hours? Could you tell me something about that meeting in Ramstein? Apparently that wasn't the emergency meeting on the F-35 as proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u46	Madam Secretary, there seems to be a lot of commotion about this file. I note that those who have placed the order, being the MR, now question that and those who have always been against it, the PS, now have to defend it. I see the irony of that. I look forward to your answer. You know that our party has always argued in a very correct way for a...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u47	Mr. President, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u48	Mr Ducarme, you will have the floor in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u49	Mr Ducarme, I did not mention your name.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u50	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u51	Mr Ducarme, I suggest that you reply in your reply to what is being said here. Mr Francken, please continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u52	Mr President, since we are in a topical debate...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u53	Mr Ducarme, there are certain rules in a topical debate. One of those rules...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u54	Mr President, next time I will be physically present!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u55	But that will be by the same rules! I call Mr Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I see the irony in it. I believe that the N-VA has always advocated an objective and transparent procedure in the context of the procurement and award process. There have been a lot of checks on this, as well as reports and audits, all of which have been carried out correctly. The purchase is now under way and I also notice that many Belgian industries can take a bit of that. I think that's a good thing. My question to you, Madam Minister, is what is the latest state of play in the F-35 purchase file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u57	You stayed perfect within the time frame. Are there any colleagues who wish to join? Is anyone asking for the floor? You have the floor, Mr Flahaut, and then Mr Lacroix.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u58	We are not specialists, neither. This F-35 is a long story, which began in 2000. The F-35 programme was not joined because there were already problems with Mr Verhofstadt at the time. Secondly, other decisions have been taken for a variety of reasons, which revolve around the port of Antwerp and our desire to please the United States within the framework of NATO. Finally, probably by persuasion, the Swede decided to buy this F-35. We don't have it yet, but we read a lot of things that confirm fears. I heard about the F-16 extension. I've heard a lot of things. The U.S. Chief of Staff who pronounces himself in the Pentagon is one thing, but the chairman of the U.S. Congressional Defence Commission, who starts to have remarks about the F-35, is different. It is no longer a question of technicians, it is no longer a question of staff or urgency in a piece of the staff, which has prepared a correct file to satisfy and to opt for the F-35, it is a political question. As I said, and I repeat, we are committed to a program. I don't know if we can see him again. We may be able to renegotiate some things at the margin, but from experience, we will not be able to reverse, I believe. You have to see if that's the right choice. I still think that's not the right choice, but that's something else. The fact is there and the government statement is also very clear about it. She says we're continuing the operation, maybe we'll adjust things. It's not by moving forward and backwards that we end up making progress!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u59	We are not experts. In my view, the F-35 purchase file has been closed for a long time. We have opposed it in its time and understand the emotion that it can still arouse, but we are faced with responsibilities that we must exercise, both in terms of security and our obligations to NATO, but also to companies. Economic compensation is currently estimated at EUR 400 million, but it will still have to be assessed over time in the light of technological return, including for civil aviation. Are we prepared to question it, on the grounds that a contract that has been signed in due form should be terminated? What are we talking about? These are the statements of General Brown, who confirmed that the U.S. Air Force remained attached to the F-35, that it remained the cornerstone of its hunting capability and, therefore, that the Americans were never asked to withdraw their confidence in the aircraft. Without being the technician that some claim to want to be today, I just remind you that this is version A of the F-35. The number of non-compliances affecting the operations involving it decreased from 13 in 2019 to 8 in 2021, with each breach receiving a systematic correction planned for this year. By comparison, it is important to note that the F-16, despite more than 40 years of existence, has more points of improvement than the F-35. Therefore, let us remain responsible and act accordingly, without calling into question a purchase which, for the Socialist Group, remains problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u60	I welcome the fact that Mr Ducarme is attracting the debate. This is an important file that involves a lot of money. I think it would be good to speak openly about this. I remember well that when we decided on this purchase in this committee, there was also a long list of deficiencies in the F-35. They'd all be solved. It is important that we, as a customer, exert pressure on this supplier to ensure that these errors are resolved. It is not an advertisement for the purchase of the F-35 that such an important list remains open. I think those statements are too light to question the whole dossier. It is not because there are still shortcomings that the entire purchase has to be cancelled. We support this purchase, but it is important that we do not say now that there is nothing wrong with the F-35s. No, I think we need to push to ensure that the mistakes that were already in it when we placed the order are resolved as quickly as possible. I think this is the best attitude we can take in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u61	I shall then give the floor to the Minister, whom I invite to answer as fully as possible all questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u62	Mrs Jadin, Mr Creyelman, with regard to the comments made by the new United States Air Force Commander, I refer you to my reply in plenary last Thursday. As regards the support costs of the F-35, I refer to the answer to the written parliamentary question No. 402 by Mrs Depraetere of 26 June 2020 on the cost per flight time for the F-35 fighter aircraft. Efforts to minimise support costs are, on the one hand, an objective and, on the other hand, a continuous effort by the Joint Programme Office to the benefit of all F-35 users and, therefore, Belgium. Mr De Vuyst, for the answer to your question, I refer to my speech in the Chamber of Thursday 4 March 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u63	Mr President, I really do not understand what is happening! We have a topical debate in committee and the minister has already referred to her answer in plenary, to an answer to a written question, to her presentation. What's going on? A topical debate is a debate, but it is not an exchange where the minister constantly refers... I dream!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u64	Mr Ducarme, I propose that the Minister be given the floor first. I assume her answer will be more than references to previous answers. To prove otherwise, I assume so. I therefore propose that we first listen to the Minister on the assumption that she will also give substantive answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u65	Mrs Jadin, since the system of economic compensation is no longer authorised by the European Commission, the government uses the protection of essential security interests. While carrying out transactions is the responsibility of industry, the government supports our industry with means of intervention limited to a monitoring and mediation role. The primary objective of the protection of security interests is to strengthen the industrial and technological base in the field of defence security. Mr Ducrame, several contracts have been concluded in the context of economic return. For more information, I advise you to ask my colleague in charge of the Economy, more specifically for the production capacity in Belgium of horizontal (horizontal tails) such as the F-35, within the companies ASCO, SABCA and Sonaca. The use of specific materials, very advanced and ultra-precision production methods and advanced machinery is part of the strengthening of the technological and industrial base, and therefore of the Belgian aviation industry. Mr Dallemagne and Mr De Vuyst, we know that the United States broke the contract with Turkey and suspended the sale to the United Arab Emirates. But there is still one element to consider: the repercussions for the purchasing states are obviously not the same when it is the United States itself that takes the decision to break the contract. As far as the terms of the breach of the contract are concerned, I refer to the answer I have already given to your question of June 2020, Mr Dallemagne. There is currently no decision on the future aircraft project. With regard to the cost per hour of flight, I refer once again to the answer given to Ms. Depraetere's written question. These figures are still up to date. The Joint Program Office's efforts are aimed at minimizing the costs of implementing the F-35 A and are being carried out on an ongoing basis. I have been confirmed that the costs of implementing the F-35 have already been gradually reduced by about 40% since 2015. The fruits of this reduction effort benefit all F-35 A customers and therefore, of course, Belgium as well. Mr Verduyckt, the Ramstein consultation is the annual NATO Air Chiefs' Symposium, where various strategic aspects of different air forces are discussed and therefore does not deal specifically with the F-35 issue. According to the staff, the average costs in regime, including the indirect costs of the two bases, such as personnel, equipment and infrastructure for the use of the new fleet F-35 A devices, are comparable to those for the fleet F-16 devices. An F-35 Program team has been set up within the Defence Staff to maintain close contact with the Joint Programme Office for the follow-up of the programme. Mr Pillen, I will repeat once again, the current government has no intention of putting an end to the contract. My cabinet has been in contact with representatives of the U.S. Embassy. According to the information that was forwarded to me, I can tell you that there are no issues of concern to the Defense Department and that the F-35 A remains the cornerstone of the United States Air Force. A number of contracts have already been concluded within the framework of the essential security interests. The implementation of the Horizontal Tail project, among others, is a clear signal from Lockheed Martin to the Belgian industry that they take security interests seriously. This project could only be achieved thanks to its close cooperation with the FPS Economy. Mr Francken, the issue of the contract for the F-35 A was discussed during the negotiations on the conclusion of a government agreement. I repeat, so that it would be clear: the government has no intention of putting an end to the contract. It is not because the government parties ask questions and want more clarity that they question the project themselves. I trust the military experts when they say that the F-35 is one of the most advanced technology combat equipment in existence today. Otherwise, Mr Francken, a decision was taken and we are sticking to it, but I am not a representative of Lockheed Martin, and it is not for me to take initiatives to improve the reputation of this aircraft. I note that despite all the answers that were given in the previous parliamentary term to almost 150 parliamentary questions – we have checked – some Members are seeking clarification on this programme. New Members are also present in this committee today. I can understand that. In this context, I am therefore fully prepared that the Military Procurement Committee may again be briefed in order to answer all your questions and discuss them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, can we confine ourselves to two minutes' speaking time in the replies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u67	Mr. Chairman, I had a lot of questions. It's a file I've been in for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u68	Then I suggest that those who had a question get 2 minutes for their reply and those who had multiple questions will have 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u69	Mr President, Madam Minister, I wish to express my views on the way in which we are working here and perhaps remind you of what a topical debate is about your answers and your references to answers. I don't think that's a way to do it. We have the right to obtain clear answers, including in this committee, to the questions we have asked. I really hope that this will change in the future because it is simply not respectful of the legislators that we are! On the other hand, I hear and note that, to date, it is not intended, because it is complicated to say so clearly, to review certain provisions formulated for the purchase of the F-35s. Nevertheless, some questions remain and we will have to have, much more than we have received in recent days, clear answers also from the American manufacturer. I am taking the leap: we will be able and we will have to get answers in Military Purchases Committee. As far as I'm concerned, I'll do it. I'll stop here and, if you don't mind, I'll give Mr. Ducarme my reply time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u70	Mrs Jadin, you have spoken for two minutes and you propose that Mr Ducarme be given four minutes' speaking time. For me, this can be done on condition that the other colleagues agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u71	Mr President, I would like to propose that the time allowed for the questioning be deducted from the reply period, but I will not do so. Madam Secretary, thank you for the answers. Whether we would have chosen the F-35 is another question. I believe that at this stage the waiver of the purchase of the F-35 would be an unwise decision. That's something we can't just do. That would be ill-advised in budgetary terms, and that is the first thing we can spare, additional budgetary problems. Your government already has enough problems in that respect. This doesn't mean we have to stay blind to the problems with the F-35. You are right to point out that a number of problems with the A version have already been resolved or that a solution is planned. This does not mean that there can be no new problems. The fact that the F-35 contains hugely complex software will undoubtedly not be strange. I do not remember which fellow Member said that this year there were some 781 problems in total in the F-35 programme, net two less than last year. In reality, a little more has been resolved than the two to which reference has been made. In fact, Mr President, I think the arguments put forward in this regard are rather weak. It's not because the F-16 would still be flawed, that we should just accept this for the F-35. We shouldn't think that's normal, given the cost of that thing. Madam Secretary, you referred somewhere to your reply last week. It is not because other aircraft builders are more transparent in this area that we should not mind with the F-35. The Americans say: two wrongs don't make a right, or something like that. So much for my reply. On the other hand, I note that the Minister is prepared to explain the file of the F-35 in the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales. In all modesty, Madam Secretary, I would ask that your services contact the secretariat to allow some dates to become when this would suit you. We, as legislator, will humbly adapt to your agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u72	Mr President, I hope you will also give me the same margin and the same flexibility on board as the other questioners, some of whom spoke for more than two minutes at the beginning.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u73	Let me just remind you that at the beginning of the replies I asked if it was okay for everyone to apply the two-minute rule. That proposal has been amended, I shall say: anyone who has tabled several questions has four minutes to speak. That has been agreed, and I will see to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u74	Mr Ducarme had a question and he spoke for four minutes, I also had a question and I only spoke for two minutes. I just wanted to let you know. Madam Minister, you referred a great deal to answers you have given to questions I had already asked, so the circle is complete. You say that we in the Special Committee on Army Purchases and Sales can always ask the necessary questions behind closed doors, but I wonder what the problem is. After all, the government needs to know how far it stands and what the cost is in the current development phase, because the F-35 has been stuck in that operational test phase for 20 years now and is still not out of it. Belgium has made an appointment with Lockheed Martin and signed a certain purchase price, but at the moment the costs continue to rise. I therefore believe that Members of this House have the right to have that information publicly. Another more fundamental debate, which I would also like to stimulate, is about the constant claim that it is necessary to buy the F-35 because the F-16s need to be replaced. It is true that the F-16s need to be replaced in the long term, but there are also many experts who say that the F-16s, with an upgrade program, can still remain operational until 2040. Let us look forward by that date to a new type of fighter plane, which is slimmer, more efficient and cheaper, and let us think about a different interpretation of our air force. Why should a country such as Belgium have 34 nuclear-loaded bombers to support the United States' strategic agenda within the framework of NATO? Why can't we look at other countries, which happen to be non-NATO members, such as Austria, Ireland and Switzerland, with a slender air force, a defensive defence, patrolling and border surveillance in airspace, but also have aircraft that can be deployed under an international legal mandate? Ask yourself this question, Madam Secretary, and think again. Your party used to be a fierce opponent of this purchase file in the opposition. Now use that political courage to see whether it is possible to revise the contract within the cancellation clauses, if necessary on the basis of force majeure or multiple technological defects. You mentioned the example of Turkey, but I mention that of Canada. Then, in the longer term, we can think about a different interpretation of our air force. Invest the billions of euros that we will now be throwing over the bar for aircraft that are not reliable, that are unnecessary and that are not working, in the needs that currently exist. The consequences of the global pandemic already make EUR 30 billion too short. I advise you to take it up again within the government, to rethink it and to choose other priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u75	Mr. President, Mr. De Vuyst has rightly said that if we wish, in the context of the next topical debate, to see Members ask two or three questions in order to be sure of winning two minutes, a problem will arise. It will therefore be necessary to reflect on the organization of work in order to have a fair debate in terms of timing. I understand that there are four former federal ministers and secretaries of state in this committee. I don't know what they think of the question. But as a Member of Parliament for the last 18 years, I do not think I have experienced what we have just experienced once, with a minister who, in a topical debate, refers four times and who does not answer. There is therefore no more topical debate. This raises the question of parliamentary scrutiny. To go back to a presentation that has been made, to an answer that has already been given, is not to respect Parliament. I have the feeling today that the latter has not been respected and that this debate is no longer one because the Minister's answers have not been received in the current affairs debate that the committee has decided to hold. A topical debate is important for our committee. It was chosen by all parliamentarians. We cannot therefore be content with dismissals. Honestly, I've never seen that! As far as background elements are concerned, not everything is white or black. It is not a question of whether or not a debate should be held, whether the contract should be terminated. As Mr. Flahaut, a man of experience, has raised, it may take a long time to find a situation in which U.S. Congress representatives and the U.S. Air Force boss are also hard on Lockheed Martin. Does this mean that we have to think about a revision or termination of the contract in Belgium? No. But we cannot, while a debate has been launched in the United States, the homeland of Lockheed Martin, act as if nothing were happening in Belgium. That is why I wanted to address substantive issues that I did not really get an answer to. I thank the minister for her answer on the hourly cost. But I'd like to know if she'll make sure to negotiate with Lockheed Martin to make sure that the hourly cost is reduced, as the United States seems to be doing. In addition, I did not receive a response on the 2018 study and the functional deficiencies that had been updated against the F-35. I didn't get an answer on the helmet. I did not have an answer on the impact of the decline in the U.S. order on the schedule and on the cost. Obviously, it is difficult not to have answers. I can hear the minister telling us that we can talk about it in the Military Purchases Commission. But why not here? A number of topics that are not necessarily subject to confidentiality may be addressed in the Defence Committee. The questions that have been asked today about topics that can be dealt with here. Transparency in the debates is an important element on a subject like this. I am therefore not at all satisfied with the debate we have held. Minister, I will come back with questions, like other parliamentarians who have not received an answer today. We will come back with a number of questions, in the Defence Committee, since you did not want to answer. You're referring to your notes. I am not going to go through all the parliamentary documents to get an answer, which I am entitled to demand in my parliamentary oversight mission from a minister in a committee in connection with a topical debate! We really need to be vigilant, as parliamentarians, about such a situation, which cannot be repeated. I naturally thank Mrs Jadin for her companionship and the gift of these two minutes, Mr President, which I will return to her very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u76	When it comes to short speaking time, you can always discuss it with me. As President, I try to apply the Rules of Procedure as effectively as possible. Pursuant to Rule 125 of the Rules of Procedure, speaking time in a topical and urgent debate is two minutes per questioner. I am therefore trying to apply it in this way. I understand your argument that it is not always easy to develop a thought within those two minutes, but it is up to me to apply and monitor the Rules of Procedure. If you think that the Rules of Procedure do not provide sufficient opportunities for a proper topical debate, then you and every Member are free to take an initiative to amend the Rules of Procedure. If that is approved by the Chamber, then I will see to it that these new rules are applied correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u77	Mr President, I will not be disputing the minister for referring to answers that she has already given, I think that the parliamentary debate must move forward. On the other hand, it is true that we have not received answers to any new questions. Minister, very courteously, I would like to warn you about this contract. We should not, in the name of a principle of responsibility – widely used today – put our heads in the sand. We're not on the plane we were sold at all. We're not at all, let alone on the plane we need. It's a plane that the Americans themselves intend to deter. They will keep it for operations around China and against Russia. It's not a plane that's going to be useful for the operations we usually conduct. As far as the cost of the flight hour is concerned, you tell us that it has decreased since 2015. I told you about the flight hour cost, measured at the end of 2019, of $43,000 per aircraft. We must not put our heads in the sand in relation to this reality! This is more than EUR 4 billion in Belgium's budget. That means we're not gonna use that plane. We'll keep it in the hangars as much as possible because it's going to cost a bridge! As far as industrial returns are concerned, they are peanuts! Mr Lacroix tells us that there will be a series of technological developments. We're a long way from it! Today we are being sold the extension of F-16 interviews as part of industrial returns. We've been doing this since 2001. We are sold this as a beautiful gift to Belgium. By the way, I note that the maintenance of these American F-16s by the Sonaca is to allow them to extend their flying hours from 8,000 to 12,000 hours. This shows that we could have done the same on our own F-16. With regard to the horizontal tail that could be produced, nothing is guaranteed today. British Aerospace Systems has yet to give its green light. I also note that it will only be for the F-35s that will not be produced by its primary producers. It will only be for the additional orders, which in the end represents quite few aircraft. Madam Minister, I appreciate your idea of returning to the Military Purchases Committee, but not to have a worldly debate. We will really have to see how we can review this contract! I do not ask you to delete it, but I note that Britain has divided by three its order of F-35 (150 to 50 aircraft). A number of countries are reviewing their orders downwards. The US Air Force has revised its order downwards by 650 aircraft. I do not see why Belgium could not do the same thing. I hear it's not the same thing if the United States breaks the contract or if we break the contract. For me, it's a scandal. If we are not on an equal footing, that is unacceptable. We should not accept the principle that Belgium would have more difficulty than the United States in breaking such a contract. This shows me how difficult this contract also is in principle. There is often a question of transparency (from my colleague Ecolo). This contract is the most opaque of all those I have had the opportunity to analyze in Military Purchases Committee over the last seven to eight years. The opinion of the Finance Inspectorate, which is essential in all arms contracts, we always receive it in confidence. We didn't get it! What I can tell you, without revealing the content of this opinion, is that it ends by saying that "it is a political decision above all"! It is not, as we have often been told, a decision taken on the basis of military criteria. It's a political decision. I ask that this political commitment be reviewed in the light of all we know today about the development of this aircraft. I will conclude, Mr President, by quoting Adam Smith, Chairman of the Defence Committee, your colleague, "I want to stop throwing money down that particular rats hole." I want to stop putting money in that rat hole! He was talking about the F-35! I think we should follow him. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u78	As chairman, I must remain neutral. I can't speak out strongly, otherwise I'll get complaints.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u79	Thank you for the information and certainly for the suggestion about the briefing, Madam Secretary. There is probably more time to ask concrete questions. Some Members are mainly having a debate today about the debate and then losing a lot of time. I have expressed my particular concern today about the budget. Look critically at that. From the background of your party you will certainly do so in part. It was also partly intertwined with your answer. It is also good that you remain at your disposal. For some Members, the debate is closed. I do not entirely agree with that. As long as there are reports of defects, the debate is not closed. We must also continue to debate the contractual follow-up. This is a billion-dollar bill. Mr Francken finds that ironic. I don't really see the humor in it. This file doesn't make me very happy. This dossier must be followed up correctly, even though we have not concluded the contract with it. I assume you didn't break up the sports halls in Lubbeek that your predecessor built because you didn't like them, Mr Francken. It is a question of taking responsibility, not only by the Minister, but also by the manufacturer. He has to provide us with quality. Defense must also take responsibility. They got what they wanted. I am therefore counting on them to take full advantage of this operationality and cost control.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u80	This debate should not have taken on such a size if everyone had put the whole story in their American context. I'll stick with that. The people who are re-learning here, the colleagues who are again very anti-F-35, do not put forward any alternatives. I heard talk about new versions of the F-16, like the F-16V. Mr Dallemagne mentioned Taiwan. That comes down to the same financial order. You can look up those numbers. We must also continue to focus on the economic return. You will indeed have to do important work in this area together with your colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs. There is unity within the government about which way to go with regard to this purchase. In the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales, we can continue on this. That would be interesting. Must be behind closed doors. I am aware of the President's position on this matter. It is not unusual that such an industrial project of this size as the F-35 still has certain problems after twenty years. That's what's special about such projects. It is a good thing that the Minister comes to the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales, together with people from Defence, from the staff, from her cabinet to give more explanation, not once, no less than a few times. Mr President of the Committee on Army Procurement and Sales, let us organise this on a structural basis. This applies not only to the F-35 but also to other dossiers, for example the frigates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u81	Madam Minister, I am very pleased that the Socialist family fully supports the purchase of the F-35. I would like to hear that, especially when one knows what harsh criticism the former government members Vandeput and Loones received from the socialist family for years. In 2019, for example, the slogan "a resthouse bed or a fighter jet" was launched. One had to choose. In terms of left-wing populism, that was a very good example. I certainly welcome this change of course, and I think it is a sensible decision. We will, of course, follow up on this dossier, that goes without saying. I'm just sorry we didn't order more than 34 because I think it's a fantastic device. The future will tell you that. As far as the Lubbeek sports hall is concerned, I will certainly break it down because it is horrible. I like beautiful architecture, my colleague. By the way, I'm inviting you to come and see my beautiful congregation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u82	As long as it's not to ride around with a Ferrari.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u83	Mr President, I would like to share with you some elements of reaction. First of all, I would like to point out that the minister has provided very clear factual answers. Her referrals relate in particular to her replies to the plenary meeting last week. We must therefore not go to Parliament's archives to find answers to the questions asked by colleagues in plenary session. On the other hand, I am sometimes surprised by the reaction of some members of the majority, particularly Mr Ducrame. If I have heard correctly, he has just declared that this contract has been poorly negotiated. By whom was he misnegotiated? By the PS? The PS wasn't in the government! On the other hand, Charles Michel was Prime Minister and the Budget Minister was Sophie Wilmès. I will, but if it is in order to entrust the current minister with the evils or bad negotiations that have been carried out in the past, then it is necessary first of all to examine his conscience and to say that, if there are any clarifications to be made, it is to his own movement that one must address. And, finally...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u84	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u85	Mr Ducrame, I give you the floor in a moment!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u86	Is it Mr. Ducalme or Mr. Ducrame? Finally, to all those who might be frustrated because the minister has asked to be able to complete the information in the Military Purchases Committee, I would say that I find this a pity and I agree with Mr Dallemagne. We will indeed be able to go much further in the examination. But here, some people want to do show, media shows. Indeed, this will not be possible in the Military Purchases Committee, because there is a serious effort to protect its work from the media. That is what I wish for in such an essential dossier!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u87	Mr Ducrame, you have the floor for a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u88	Mr President, as regards the words of the Socialist colleague as to whether it is Mr Ducrame or Mr Ducalme, my colleague, I do not allow you to do so. I won't allow you! As far as the substance of the case is concerned, four references in a topical debate, I repeat that I have never seen this. I think it would have been easier for the minister, even if she repeated a number of points, to be able to hear her on these issues in order to have a real topical debate which, in my view, has not really been possible today. For the rest, this debate is not white or black. It's not about being for or against the F-35. I said it at the outset: it is the right choice; it is the choice of the majority. It is simply a matter of following up on a number of new elements, such as the negotiations that the US Air Force wants to launch in relation to the hourly cost. It is also a question of having more precise information on the pace of supply, and on points that had been referred to as "black spots" in the 2018 report on the helmet, on the ejectable seat. It is indeed a question, given the new elements, of whether we have room for manoeuvre and whether we have the means to put the useful pressure on Lockheed Martin, on a point as important as the hourly cost. We can reduce a debate like this to grief, make words of mind about each other's names. But I'm not going to carry this debate like a cross, Mr. Lacroix. It will simply be a matter of transparency, so not only to refer all the elements of debate on this issue to the Military Procurement Committee. I believe that we must provide, through our parliamentary scrutiny, a number of elements of transparency in this debate. It's very useful, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u89	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. The ranks are closed. This is a political answer. Of course, I have no problem with that. I don't think the contract should be broken. That would lead us far too far. I would, however, urge you to be an internal critical customer in the file. This should not always be done externally and publicly. I think we need to do three things to be a critical customer. Firstly, what Mr Dallemagne says about compensation for Walloon, Brussels and Flemish companies must be examined. Compensations were an essential part of the package we bought. I don't think we have a margin there. If this is promised, it must be carried out. Secondly, if there are deficiencies, we must also be a critical customer there. We must say that the list is too long, even though much is being done about it. It just keeps going on and on. Certain statements have been made, I know that they have to be seen in context, Mr Pillen is right, but that is not simply said. The Minister should be more proactive in condemning the technical aspects. Thirdly, it is a highly sophisticated technological device. If there are opportunities to simplify this in the development process, Belgium should also encourage it. If one buys such a sophisticated device, it is not only expensive per hour but it may not meet 100 % for the actions we carry out. If there are technical possibilities to simplify the appliance in order to increase reliability, there should be an open and fair debate with the supplier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u90	Mr President, I do not understand very well the criticisms about the fact that there is no topical debate in this committee. We have just had an hour and a half of discussion between us, not to mention the debate that took place last Thursday. By the way, I was surprised to see that those who said that they had asked for the debate were not present in the debate on Thursday. I have not understood very well, and I would like above all to pay tribute to the Rules of Procedure. The simple application of the Rules of the House would in any case have led to the debate that we have here, whether a colleague requests it or not. I thank the minister for reexplaining what she has already said on Thursday with a little more detail - I am not going to refer to my reply on Thursday, but I will also repeat part of it. For an ecologist, the argument "Ferrari or not" is not very evocative, especially since the Ecolo-Green group opposed this purchase throughout the procurement for reasons, as I have already said, ethical, geopolitical, strategic and budgetary. The many events that surrounded him cast a certain shadow on this process, between those who said that the F-16 could still be extended for many years, and the manufacturers who withdrew their offer because they said that the market was biased in favour of Lockheed Martin. Not to mention the vigorous protests by civil society against a project with a cost of 3.8 billion for purchase and 200 million for maintenance each year. There was certainly room for debate. The debate was difficult at the time. I wasn't there yet, but my colleagues talked a lot about it and I was following him from the outside. On the subject of shadows, we can still and still regret the lack of transparency in this debate on what happened, what we committed ourselves to at the time. We obviously do not deny our position and we still expect Lockheed Martin to guarantee flight costs, technical problems, etc. I think we can demand them from Lockheed Martin. We can also hope that the US government's pressure on the manufacturer will be of great benefit to us. Today, the government is no longer the same, but it does not change the fact that the contract has been passed and that its consequences are already there and inevitable. I hear that the minister says that a renegotiation or even a cancellation of this market would cost a lot of money in compensation, which we would lose outright. We also know that some companies have entered into agreements with Lockheed Martin and that we could finally hope for some economic benefits for our country. These are arguments that must also be heard. Today we have a legacy of the past to manage, in a government with these partners who were supporters of the F-35 and others who were not. Most importantly, in the government agreement, we have identified procedures to make future military procurement contracts less opaque and more controllable. It is very important to know how to learn from past experiences so as not to reproduce certain errors. We will, of course, tackle this and I am pleased to see that the MR is now also interested in market transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u91	Madam Minister, at the Ministerial Council of 11 December 2020, a multi-annual agreement for the lifetime of the Pandur weapons system was approved linked to the passive vehicle protection upgrade. Little more information is given, but it would be a multi-annual contract providing for the purchase of spare parts for the protection kit. That is striking, because some of the coalition partners were actively campaigning against the Midlife Updates of the vehicle before the formation of the government. There were some harsh words. I quote: 'It is as if you are taking your car to the garage for a maintenance and after that you hardly fit in' and "31 million in the garbage bin'. That comment came from colleague De Vriendt. However, this year, the Department of Defense would be using the modified versions of the Pandur with additional ballistic protection. I have a few questions about that. What exactly is contained in the multi-annual agreement approved by the Government for the Pandur on 11 December 2020? Does this relate to the notorious Midlife Upgrade? What progress has been made with the upgrade of the Belgian and Austrian Pandurs by RUAG? In the meantime, is the DOD satisfied with the adjustments that have been made? Have the internal volume and control problems been fully resolved? Thales was expected to deliver new ISR systems between 2022 and 2024 after entry into service, making Pandur interoperable with the Griffons and Jaguars. How long would this conversion take? Is it useful if the vehicle will be phased out five years after the introduction of the CaMo vehicles? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u92	Mr Francken, this is a multi-annual open agreement of 2016 for spare parts, technical support and services related to the upgrade of passive protection and further modifications of the Pandur by RUAG. The contract does not cover the 2018 contract for the Midlife Upgrade. The company RUAG started the production of the series of vehicles in their own infrastructure. The first Belgian series vehicle of the type Recce has now been offered for inspection. The Austrian vehicles are only started after the Belgian vehicles. Defence is satisfied with the adjustments and the configuration of the vehicles was indeed adapted to take account of more than 90% of the comments made on the ergonomics of the vehicle, within the physical constraints of the vehicle. Thales should have completed the upgrade by mid-2024. The vehicles can already be used for training and training from mid 2022 and later for deployment. The efficiency period is sufficient as the vehicles will be withdrawn from circulation around 2035.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u93	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I understand that more than 90% of the comments are being taken up, including the fact that the vehicles are too small. Everyone has read in the newspaper articles that the military do not get into the Pandur, which is actually quite ridiculous. Mr Wouter De Vriendt put that very much into the market as a waste of money. Now I understand that a lot of adjustments will be made to enable the Pandur to be deployed effectively. I take note of that. I think it's a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u94	Madam Secretary, on 7 December, the Composite Special Operations Component Command (C-SOCC) obtained its certification for NATO during the exercise Steadfast Jupiter-Jackal. Together with our partners The Netherlands and Denmark, we have worked closely together over the past three years. Within NATO, too, the remarkable achievement was noted to move from a political intention in 2017 to a full capacity by 2020 with a fast deployable NATO headquarters for directing special operations. The project has aroused the interest of other European countries and we see the first talks to copy this success. The C-SOCC will now be ready for deployment in the NATO Response Force (NRF) throughout 2021, hence the following questions. Are we working on a follow-up with our partners The Netherlands and Denmark? Are there any discussions about a contribution from the Special Operations Forces (SOF) after 2021? Is there any way to extend the command to other interested nations such as Germany, Poland or Croatia? What capacity is our country supposed to be able to guarantee its commitment to the NRF at any time? In addition to this contribution, our country would also provide the NRF with a Special Operations Land Task Group and contribute to the Composite Special Operations Air Task. Is the certification of these SOF contributions completed and are they usable for NRF-21? In 2020, a Sub Steering Group SOF was also established under the Benelux Steering Group, which should set up initiatives for further cooperation for a Belgian-Dutch NATO task force. Have any results been achieved on further cooperation and integration? What collaborations do you wish to conclude on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u95	Mr Francken, during the NRF stand-by period 2021, several retention exercises will be carried out as well as workshops to support the NRF-2023 C-SOCC and to process the lessons identified and lessons learned. The aim of the workshops is twofold: on the one hand to support the construction of the next C-SOCC rotation for NRF-2026 plans, on the other hand to support the NATO SOF headquarters 02 NRF concept that describes the construction of C-SOCC. The C-SOCC was the proof of concept and succeeded in doing so. Other regional, multinational C-SOCC initiatives are currently on the table with NATO, including between the Baltic States, between Greece and Bulgaria and between Croatia, Hungary, Slovakia, Slovenia and Austria. In 2026, it is also intended to offer a Composite Special Operations Maritime Task Group, together with the Netherlands. During the stand-by year 2021, Belgium also offers a Special Operations Land Task Group and a contribution to the Composite Special Operations Air Task Group, together with Denmark and the Netherlands, which is also an important NATO capability gap. All contributions were declared combat-ready in the course of 2020. Priority projects, such as the Composite Special Operations Maritime Task Group, have already been dealt with in the Benelux Substering Group SOF. This binational Task Group will train together in the course of 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u96	Mr President, Minister, I am very pleased with these initiatives. I think this really is an example of how troops can work across land borders and quickly give concrete answers to a gap within NATO. I am very pleased that our SOF responds to this and that similar new initiatives will be launched. I believe that both the NATO commando and the general staff will be pleased to hear this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u97	Madam Secretary, on the site Gunfire in Brasschaat the artillery collection of Defense and a series of vehicles from after World War II is on display. However, we received reports that the War Heritage Institute (WHI) and Defense would plan to destroy the museum in Brasschaat and move the collection to a new site in the former Ypres barracks. This encounters a great deal of protest and unrest. I have received a lot of e-mails and phones about this over the past few weeks and not the least. Madam Secretary, can you confirm that the WHI is planning a departure from Brasschaat and that the collection is being moved to Ypres? If so, what is the underlying reason and what timetable is used? The transfer of the collection from Kapellen and the division after this, in which a significant part of the valuable collection was moved to Bastogne, put bad blood on the dozens of volunteers who are responsible for the maintenance of the vehicles. In what way will they be taken into account if the collection will be moved from one side of Flanders to another? Brasschaat and Ypres aren't anywhere near each other anyway. Will the relocation also involve a reorganisation of the collection, in which pieces can also come back from Bastogne or additional pieces leave Flanders? In Bastogne, the Defense wanted to concentrate the vehicles connected to World War II. What exactly will be the approach of the site in Ypres and is there the possibility that vehicles or objects in the Defence collection related to the First World War or the liberation by the Canadians and British can find their place here?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u98	Madam Minister, I have actually already received an answer to my question, thanks to the answer to a written question on the future of the Lemahieu barracks in Ypres. Colleague, that barracks still exists, by the way. You indicated that an important part of the collection in Brasschaat will move to Ypres and that there will be a new site there. Later, hopefully next week, the whole story of the WHI sites will also be covered. It is good that the WHI has finally started to define a strategy on this issue. I have largely the same question as Mr Francken. What will happen? Suppose an important part of Brasschaat's collection moves to Ypres, what exactly will happen to the site in Brasschaat? Is the Ministry of Defence in contact with the municipality of Brasschaat? That is, of course, also an important dimension.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u99	The WHI plans the transfer to Ypres of its heritage after World War II, which is preserved in Brasschaat on the site Gunfire. This is because of the poor condition of the buildings in Brasschaat and the larger and more modern storage sheds that Ypres offers. The move to Ypres will start in early 2023 and take two years. The volunteers of Gunfire are of course welcome in the modern workshop and the storage sheds in Ypres. However, I do not think it is very likely that they will accept that offer. If the municipality of Brasschaat wants to acquire the Gunfiresite and build a new smaller museumological project, the WHI will certainly support it with its expertise with associated sites. On the site of Bastogne Barracks only the vehicles of World War II are preserved and restored. None of them will be transferred to Ypres, as that site will be devoted exclusively to the Cold War and its consequences. The move also offers the possibility to link Ypres' new site to the WHI site of the Kemmelberg. The WHI heritage in connection with the First World War will be concentrated exclusively in the Royal Army Museum in Brussels and the Diksmuide Dodengang.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u100	That is very sad news for the many volunteers of the Gunfiresite. It means a death blow to them. You make a cross about their work, because they will of course not go to Ypres, which is far too far. You are once again making a choice, as you did for the C-130, which we have already debated a great deal. You say that if the municipality wants to acquire a piece of the site and set up a smaller museum project there, it can count on the help of the WHI. I will take that with me and I will report it to the mayor as soon as possible, because there are very concrete plans for that. Let's get that straight. I hope that at least one more volunteering and a museum will remain possible. Brasschaat has a very nice tradition, when it comes to the Landcomponent and the artillery. You also note that material is not intended to move from Bastogne to Ypres. That wasn't my question. My question is whether material from Brasschaat in Flanders will move to Bastogne in Wallonia. You didn't answer that. Furthermore, you say that in Ypres the museum will be housed in connection with the Cold War, while everything that has to do with the First World War will remain in Brussels. That's weird. I have read that Mr Pillen has made a good impression on the media with my suggestion. I wish him good luck with that. He is very active and active MEPs need to get into the media nicely. He's also West Fleming, so I totally understand. After all, it is a regional dossier. However, I am of the opinion that the First World War should have a place in Ypres. War tourism is a huge asset for Flanders and for that region. A museum that only exhibits parts of World War II and the Cold War is at least strange. I have nothing against this in itself, but there must certainly also be a part of the First World War, as a result of the historical events in the region, for which hundreds of thousands of tourists visit the region and visit their deceased relatives. When tourists, young people and students from New Zealand and Australia visit that museum at Anzac Day, they must also be able to visit the military equipment used. Madam Minister, I really hope that you will review the dossier together with the WHI; I would like to make a warm appeal to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u101	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I'd already heard about this. I visited Brasschaat a month ago, which was under a thick snow carpet. When you say that the situation in Brasschaat is no longer acceptable, you are absolutely right. It's raining inside; windows are gone. We really need huge investments. I also understand the option for Ypres, where space has been released through the move to Peutie and Beringen among others. So I do support the decision, no matter how hard it is for the volunteers. I went there a month ago and talked to them. They were emotional back then. So I imagine it's going to be a very emotional time for them. Madam Secretary, it is certainly to be remembered that cooperation with the municipality of Brasschaat with its long military history is an option for you, including for the WHI. If I understood correctly, the WHI is also open to that option. His collection is so large that together with the municipality of Brasschaat, which has already acquired certain things, such as the control tower, it can also do something on that site in the field of military history and the history of Brasschaat. As for Ypres, I think it's a very good idea and plan. The location is there, the accommodation is there and the tourism is already very well developed. As a result of your reply to my written question, I have already said in the media, Mr Francken is right in saying that I would select from the huge collection of the WHI a number of beautiful pieces to be exhibited in Ypres. I believe that Australians, New Zealanders or tourists coming from all over the world to the Westhoek will be charmed by the offer of the WHI in Ypres, but then they also need to be shown something that closely matches their history.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u102	Madam Minister, you know that I am quite sensitive to the state of our war graves, which you may not expect from a Flemish nationalist, but I am also a conservative thinker, and I must say that I think respect for the past, including for fallen heroes, is very important. I do not always agree with the Belgian constitution, but I do respect what has happened and the struggle that has been fought by people to make the West free and equal. Since, in my opinion, everyone should show that respect, I called for more to be done about reminder education when discussing your policy paper. We already do that in our schools in our congregation. I would like to discuss these wonderful initiatives with you. Also November 11th in memory education is a spearhead in the educational project in our municipality. It is also a matter of respect that we honour our war graves in a proper way. I think that is a very fundamental matter. It's a matter of respect for fallen heroes, for fallen warriors. Unfortunately, that doesn't always happen. We can see this in the sad state of some war graves, such as the grave of General Piron and the monument in Saint-Marie in Antwerp. The dwindling state of the Belgian graves in Sainte-Marie, at the French Le Havre, gives rise to many reactions online. There was a clear contrast with the graves of the British and the French, which are well looked after. The 3,506 graves of Belgian soldiers, buried on 190 French sites, are maintained by the French government under the Belgian defence budget. 307 other graves at civil cemeteries should be maintained by the municipalities concerned. Madam Secretary, can you indicate who is responsible for the Belgian graves at the cemetery in Le Havre? Was the maintenance of these graves charged to us by the French? If so, what is the contribution? Does the Department of Defence or the War Heritage Institute (WHI) actively check the condition of the military graves that are located abroad? Will you, if necessary, address the situation and maintenance of the graves to the competent authorities? It is, of course, the grave of General Piron and the monument of Sainte-Marie.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u103	In the French Le Havre there are 137 Belgian military war graves, spread over three areas of honour. In accordance with an agreement with the French authorities, the maintenance of these Belgian war graves is outsourced to the Directorate des Patrimoines, de la mémoire et des archives, a service within the French mines des Armées. Defence pays for the maintenance of all 3,506 war graves on French honoraries a global sum. By 2020, this amounted to around EUR 56 000, included in the Defence budget. The WHI controls all Belgian military war graves abroad every four years. During the last check in Le Havre in May 2019 it was established that the maintenance was carried out correctly. As soon as the sanitary situation permits, I will instruct the WHI to carry out an interim check on the current state of the Belgian military war graves in Le Havre. If it is unexpected that the maintenance was not carried out according to the rules, contact will be made with the Direction des Patrimoines, de la mémoire et des archives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u104	So, Madam Minister, you pay EUR 56 000 a year to maintain 3,506 graves on 190 French sites of honor. You say that the WHI controls this every four years and that the last check in Le Havre took place in May 2019. You will ask for an interim check as soon as Corona allows. I hope that these graves will be properly maintained and I will continue to question you about that. I also found that last week volunteers maintained Albert I's monument in Marche-les-Ladies. Although I appreciate volunteering very much, I find it strange that this should be done by volunteers. I'm not a royalist. I'm a Republican at heart. However, I find it strange that this should be done by volunteers and that it is all somewhat neglected. Madam Secretary, I don't know if you're a monarchist, but in the Defense Department, you can score a lot of points if all these things are well maintained. We really need to do a good job there. I know that you are also sensitive to this and I hope that we can achieve this together in the years to come. That would really be a step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u105	Mr President, Minister, at the request of the United Nations, our country sent 3.171 volunteers to Korea to prevent the free South from being overrun. During the fighting 101 of them would die, 5 others were reported missing after the fighting and still have not been identified, despite the efforts of the next of kin. The Netherlands is still looking for 5 of its soldiers and therefore concluded an agreement with South Korea in December, which formalizes the data exchange between the Royal Army Storage and Identification Service and its South Korean counterpart. For investigation of the missing Koreans, they can now have access to each other's database. Does our country have similar cooperation with South Korea for identifying victims? If not, does the Minister consider it useful to conclude an agreement with them, following the example of the Netherlands? This year it is 70 years since the Belgian battalion arrived in Korea and fought with the communist troops. In what way will the DOD recall this, understanding the corona measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u106	Mr President, Mr Francken, Belgium has a similar agreement to the Netherlands to identify the Belgian military missing in Korea. A commemoration of the battle of the Imjin near Hangtangang will be organised by the War Heritage Institute in April 2021. If the sanitary crisis does not allow this, the memorial will be inserted at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u107	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I hope that the committee members will also be invited to the commemoration. That should be possible, hopefully in April. If that doesn't work because of corona, then maybe it can be done later or online. It seems to me that it is a matter of respect to be able to participate in that memorial.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u108	Madam Secretary, you know what I think about this subject. We have already had a strong debate on it. I just want to get back to you. On 17 December, the controversial law on special measures for the selection of applicants due to the coronavirus was adopted in the Court. It provided that the Director-General for Human Resources may decide not to carry out physical fitness selection tests for the recruitment sessions 2021. Previously, similar derogations were taken by proxy decision for the year 2020. Madam Minister, can you indicate during which periods in 2020 Defence has already applied this derogation? To what extent does the Defence Department consider it necessary to maintain that measure in 2021? How many candidate soldiers who didn't have to do physical tests did the Department of Defense recruit? What's the feedback the Defense Instructors give you on the physical preparedness of the new recruits from 2020? Have alternatives to the organisation of physical trials already been investigated?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u109	Mr Francken, selection activities, including the sport trials, were discontinued on 16 March 2020 due to COOVID-19 and restarted on 4 May 2020. After re-starting on 4 May 2020, no sport tests were carried out for sanitary reasons. Defence considers that it is necessary to continue this measure until the sanitary situation permits it again. The results of the sports trials were only charged for the ranking of applicants for candidate volunteers for the January, February and March 2020 sessions. In the sessions of January, February and March 237 volunteers were recruited who did take the sports tests. In the later sessions of 2020, 1,716 individuals were recruited for the active framework and the reserve framework, without the sports tests being included in the ranking. For the first sessions of 2021, the data will be confirmed by the end of March. Candidates must not pass physical tests until the end of the training year. A new test will be carried out at the start of the training. On the basis of the results, the candidates will receive an adapted training programme. This should allow them to pass physical tests at the end of the first year of training. It provides for time-to-time evaluation times to measure the progress of the candidates. These accompanying measures are not specific as a result of the COVID-19 epidemic, but are always applied. In view of the different measures taken because of COOVID-19, such as quarantine, subsequent catching-up lessons, or distance learning, it is not always possible to monitor all candidates closely and to check whether the training programme is being followed correctly. This is largely the responsibility of the candidate himself. Since the training year of the recruits recruited in 2020 has not yet been completed, it is too early to draw objective conclusions on the physical preparedness of the recruits, whose physical selection tests were suspended. Various alternative slopes for organizing the physical tests were examined in mid-2020. This resulted in the preparation of a sports hall in Heverlee, where the space and equipment were provided to organize the sports trials in a safe way. As soon as the fitness centres are allowed to reopen the doors, the sports trials will also be restarted. The priority when starting the tests will be given to the framework of petty officers, officers and the combat functions of the Land Component.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u110	Mr President, Madam Minister, there is therefore a coming improvement. I don't really see the link to the fitness centers and the possibility of being able to work out again. I think there's other ways to keep fit. I understand the gyms will open on May 1st. From 1 May 2021 there will be physical tests again, starting with the petty officers, officers and combat units. That will happen in Heverlee in a coronaproof setting. That's good news. You know I'm a little sensitive about this. Mr Flahaut said that none of this is necessary and that they should all abolish it. I think it is just as important that these physical tests continue. I think you know that too, and I assume we left again from 1 May 2021 to do everything as it should be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u111	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Verduyckt's 55012505C is converted into a written question. Mrs Verhaert didn't say anything, her question No. 55012546C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u112	During and shortly after the First World War many fallen Flemish soldiers received a heroic cloak as a reminder and tribute to their struggle and commitment against the German aggressor. Eventually, these hero-huldirkjes have become a symbol, also of the Flemish emancipation struggle. Unfortunately, in the 1920s, a lot of them disappeared. Today there are only a few dozen bullies left. One of the soldiers who had such a hero's cloak was Robert Drosbeque. He is buried in the military cemetery in Westvleteren. His hero's shirt was destroyed and replaced by a standard barge. On his grave is a copper plate and the text on that plate is written in French. That seems to me to be in conflict with Mr Drosbeque's commitment, for which he was also known. His commitment is also historically documented. Let us show honour and respect to all those soldiers who have worked in that struggle and at the same time pay tribute to Mr Drosbeque's commitment. Can you do what is necessary to adapt the language of the epitaph on the copper plate, so that Mr. Drosbeque receives a Dutch-language tribute?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u113	Mr Loones, in the course of 1924, after the presentation to the Belgian public of the Belgian military gravestone in bluestone, all the families of the deceased were written with four questions. Firstly, in what language, French or Dutch, should the inscription be written on the bronze plate? Secondly, should the kokarde with the Belgian tricolor be marked with a cross? If not, a Belgian lion will be attached to it. Thirdly, was the remains of the deceased already exhumed and repatriated? Fourthly, if the tomb has already been given a stone memorial, would it be appropriate to replace it with the Belgian military tombstone, donated by the city? Unfortunately, the original correspondence has not been preserved, but the original sheets of each of the victims are. According to Mr Drosbeque's sheet, the family expressed the wish to replace the tombstone present. That mention is the last recorded correspondence with the War Digs service at the time. If the applied bronze plate was written in a language other than that desired by the family, the parents, in this case, then we can assume that, given the frequent pilgrimages to the graves on the Iron, that would have led to an additional writing with a question for amendment. However, such writing does not appear on the sheet. Without prejudice to the commitment of the person concerned, I do not think that we should ask ourselves almost 100 years after the facts whether we have the right to ignore his parents' desire to change the bronze plate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u114	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. It's kind of special. You refer to a sheet, which is in your possession, when you do not have the original correspondence. That is where you build up a narrative that a complaint would have been filed, if you had used a different title, and that, since that did not happen, you assume that the family did not let you know. In the meantime, however, historical research shows very clearly the Flemish commitment of Mr Droesbeque. Documents are also available on this subject. I therefore regret your answer. In fact, I take your answer as an invitation to go on with the dossier and to contact the family, to make clear what the precise commitment was and how we can pay our respects to Mr Drosbeque in the most appropriate way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic402x.u115	The rest of the questions were postponed to the next meeting.
