ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, the Institute for Equality between Women and Men recently published figures on the number of complaints it received about gender discrimination. Unfortunately, there's not much good news there. In 2020, the Institute received 9% more complaints about gender discrimination. When the Institute began the annual publication of the figures, we all hoped that they would decrease over time, which has not happened, quite the contrary. Reports of harassment at work are also rising. As many as 40% of all complaints relate to the working environment. Women are therefore still treated unequally and discriminated against simply because they are women, including at work. The complaints relate to access to employment, pay and working conditions, but I am most concerned about pregnancy, motherhood and the wish for children. The fact that women are still discriminated against and treated inferiorly simply because they are or want to become mothers indicates a major social problem. Even in spite of the sharp increase in homework, complaints about sexual harassment at work are also increasing. I wonder where a woman can still feel safe, because sexual harassment is not only at work, but also in the public domain. The complaints are also well received on this issue. There is still a great deal of work on the table to give women an equal place in our society. Madam Secretary of State, how will you, together with your colleague responsible for employment, address the increasing number of complaints about inequality in the workplace so that women get fair career opportunities? How will you, together with your colleague responsible for Justice, ensure that cross-border conduct can be dealt with in criminal terms, even if it is done at work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u2	I would like to explain something, since this is a matter of concern to me and the results are not good. 40% of the reports relate to the workplace and 36% of the complaints concern pregnancy and maternity. That suggests that women are mostly the victims, which makes me frown the eyebrows anyway. Furthermore, the Institute communicated that harassment on the workplace had increased by 17% on grounds of sex and sexual harassment by 13% on grounds of sex. Given the increase in homework, these figures are remarkable. One would expect such cases to occur just less. In the light of these figures, Liesbet Stevens, the Assistant Director of the Institute, calls for a review of the means available to combat sexism. After all, they do not appear to be sufficient to deal adequately with sexism in our society. Thus, sexist statements in public space cannot be punished if they are not addressed to a particular person. That's a problem. What additional measures do you take against discrimination based on pregnancy, maternity or child desire? Are you prepared to respond to Mrs Stevens' call for broader measures to be taken in the fight against sexism, for example by criminalising more forms of sexist statements in public space? Given the doubled number of reports of street harassment, will you change your policy and how? There are some pilot projects running. What is the situation and what else will you do with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. The health crisis that we are experiencing largely explains the increase in these figures, particularly those relating to online, intra-family and public-sector violence. These figures show, once again, that we must take into account the differentiated impact that the covid has had on women and men, in a systematic way, especially for the future national recovery and resilience plan, so that the society we are rebuilding is more egalitarian than the society before the crisis and, above all, that it is not less egalitarian than before the crisis. It is essential that the impact on gender equality of the policies we implement be taken into account. This is the meaning of the federal gender mainstreaming plan 2020-2024 that the government recently adopted. It is also necessary to collect generation statistics. Revenge porn situations have been multiplied. This is an important issue and the Belgian Penal Code should be adapted in the near future. To fulfil this new mission, the resources of the Institute for Gender Equality (IEFH) will have to be strengthened to combat this phenomenon linked, among other things, to the massive use of computer tools during this period of health crisis. The Institute for Equality between Women and Men and Unia received additional funding to employ 8 and 4 persons respectively for a period of 6 months in order to cope with the increase in reports of discrimination. An extension for 2022 is currently under negotiation. Madame de Laveleye, you asked a question about strengthening the Institute. I fully agree with you that this is necessary, even outside of the temporary resources related to covid-19. I have prepared a solid dossier for the budget conclave. I count on the government's support in this regard. However, the persistent disparities in income and wealth between women and men, the glass ceiling and the sticky floor that women still face, as well as the many cases of femicides, are just a few examples of the urgency of having an integrated and funded policy for equality between women and men. Secondly, in order to combat discrimination in the field of employment, I would like to stress the importance of practical tests or tests of discrimination. In May 2021, the Institute delivered an opinion to the Minister of Labour on the preliminary draft amendment to article 42.1 of the Criminal and Social Code concerning the specific powers of social inspectors in relation to cases of discrimination. These tools are necessary and their legal framework has yet to evolve, but the project is under way. We will review and strengthen the law of 2014. The review of legislation is essential to make progress towards real equality between women and men. Working on underreporting, witness protection, prosecution and support for offenders are also areas of work. In order to combat gender-based violence, the training of all actors, including the police, justice, social and medical sectors, must be sustainable and valued. It is also one of the axes of the national action plan to combat gender-based violence 2021-2025 that we are in the process of finalising. This field work with local actors must be supported by support for research such as the exploratory study currently being carried out by the National Institute of Criminalism and Criminalology (on the possible causes of the near absence of cases of street harassment at the level of the police services, the transposition of a tool such as ILO Convention 190 on the elimination of violence and harassment in the world of work) will give the social partners, in the coming months, greater attention to this topic. Sexual violence is also far too numerous in Belgium and affects two thirds of the Belgian population, according to a recent study by the University of Ghent. That is why the opening in the coming months of seven new centres for dealing with sexual violence will be able to take this scourge with one another throughout the country. As you can see, the challenges are enormous, because all this work, both on the ground and on research, requires structural funding. I count on everyone's support to ensure that the budgets allocated to these policies are up to our ambitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u4	Madam Secretary of State, I understand you're going to increase the resources for the Institute through temporary recruitment. I hear that you are negotiating on a more permanent nature and wish you every success. I think it is really necessary to be able to employ at least some of those people in the longer term. Secondly, I also hear you say that you want to tighten up the law, but you do not mention a timing for that. I'd be interested if that happened. For the rest, I am sure that you will continue to work on this. Once again, good luck with that. At least we're gonna follow closely if there's any progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u5	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your detailed response, as usual. The projects are indeed huge, but civil society – like Parliament – is here to work with you to explore the avenues for solutions. I would like to highlight three themes on which you have come back. First of all, with regard to sexual violence, we have begun our review of the new Sexual Penal Code with the Minister and civil society. I also understand that care centres will be able to be generalized at one per province. This was highlighted in particular by the motion for a resolution that we had drawn up in the Social Empowerment Commission. I would therefore like to thank you for working on the basis of what Parliament has highlighted. As far as the sexist law is concerned, I hear your willingness to evaluate it. The urgency is there, because we know that the perpetrators who are cowardly on the Internet benefit from quasi-impunity, while their behaviour has consequences in real life. That is why a distinction should not be made between a sexist attitude in real life and in virtual life. It is therefore appropriate to extend the scope of this law to target both speech and visuals and sexist media on the Internet. In terms of discrimination and harassment in the labour market, your willingness to expand the situational tests seems to me to be elementary in order to objectiveize the phenomenon. Again, I invite you to consult more and more with federated entities, women's associations, the Institute, but also with trade unions. There is also a need to raise awareness among employers, as much work remains to be done in this area. There are avenues – such as quotas and equal pay labels – that were, moreover, included in the electoral programme of some parties of the majority, but also of the opposition. With regard to the wage gap, Mr Dermagne mentioned the need to make the law of 22 April 2012 more effective and to transpose the European Directive on the transparency of remuneration. So there are still a lot of work in this area. You will, of course, be able to count on Parliament's support in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u6	Madam Secretary of State, you have addressed many different aspects on which, I think, you are right to insist. First of all, I am pleased to learn that additional resources have been allocated to the Unia and the IEFH on a temporary basis and that there is a solid file – I use your words – on the government table and that you rely on us to support it. We know that without first-hand expertise and without documenting the stakes, we advance blindly without allowing us to find political answers to the challenge. As was mentioned in Parliament's resolution, it is essential to give additional resources to the IEFH. We therefore encourage you to do so. Secondly, as far as employment is concerned, I understand that the project is under way. You are obviously not alone in the government to deal with these issues, which, as we know, are enormous. All the women we are, who have worked in different sectors, know how much this remains a reality, especially for women of childbearing age. Even though this term is horrible, it still prevails extremely. Let's move on! You have our support in this regard. On the other hand, with regard to sexism in public space, I must say that I am pessimistic, not at the level of your response, far from it, and we look forward with great impatience to your plan to combat violence. I hope that we will have a broad parliamentary debate on this subject. On the other hand, I again interviewed the chief of corps of my police zone not so long ago, who told me that in terms of training his agents, women and men, he had to choose priorities and that this was not the priority at the moment. I'm worried. I don't throw the stone at him. I know they have very little money and very little time. We must also work with the Minister of the Interior to make this a top priority. As we know, women are subjected to violence in public spaces, every day, almost permanently! However, they do not receive support from the police. Let us hope that the plan you are implementing can mobilize the entire government in this direction and that the results will follow quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, cooking, of course, costs money. We will also follow the debate on the budgets very closely from the opposition, because if there is no money, it will not go forward. Spain is a good example of this. After large mobilisations from women, huge budgets have been deployed there, and as a result the figures in Spain have improved enormously and there is a lot of progress there. So we will certainly look very closely at the budgets, and if it is not enough for us, we will intervene. Secondly, as far as the Criminal Code is concerned, I think it is a rather bad start that Minister Van Quickenborne has already launched a proposal without involving the organisations. Yesterday we heard once again that many organisations in the field were not consulted in advance in order to make things move forward. In the meantime, although the hearings are under way, this was not a good start. I believe that this also applies to you, as Secretary of State, to the fact that the organisations in the workplace are very important, especially in order to change such important legislation. Thirdly, as far as work is concerned, as you know, I have been a trade union delegate myself, and so I have experienced this in the workplace. I once knew a woman who worked at my house cleaning and whose temporary contract was not renewed. The employer specifically said: "You may return after you have given birth." Of course, they don't do that to men. The woman's contract stopped because she was pregnant, and after her maternity leave she was allowed to start again from scratch. I also contacted the trade unions about this problem of pregnancy. I find it hallucinating that in a modern society women do not dare to say that they are pregnant and that they are still faced with that problem very often. My suggestion is that there should be cooperation between the Institute and the trade union organisations on all aspects of discrimination in the workplace, which is a very large area where there are still problems, so that trade union representatives in the workplace can also intervene if there are various complaints about one company, for example. The trade unions are asking to be involved from the Institute to deal with these problems. Finally, we are awaiting your plan. It's getting urgent and we need to move forward. The problems will not be solved. Soon we will talk about intra-family violence, which has also increased. So there's still a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u8	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, there was a Dutch-speaking Pano broadcast on 15 September on intra-family violence. The reportage again showed the seriousness of the problem. When the problem comes to light, the government promises that action will be taken over and over again. However, we see very little progress. In addition, you announced that you want to ensure that any fatal case of intra-family violence is subsequently analysed. That's a good idea, but it's not enough. Every dead man is a dead man too much. Above all, we must act proactively and preventively. I cannot repeat enough that there is still a great deal of limp in that regard. What measures will the government generally take to prevent intra-family violence? Most of the victims are women. What will the government do to improve the socio-economic position of women in society and reduce the risk of intra-family violence? We also keep knocking on that hammer: the socio-economic dependence of women makes women very weak. What will you do to ensure that victims are heard and helped more quickly? What about training the police and the courts to better monitor complaints, better assess risks and better assist victims? How do you want to increase the number of notifications and reports? The helpline remains a problem. The song is far too little known. How will you enforce the effective use by the police of the checklist, the temporary restraining order and the future risk assessment tool as an instrument? How will you improve the lousy coordination and information transfer between the federal level and the regions and their respective institutions? When will there be a national action plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u9	Mr President, it seems that my three questions have been merged. Of course, they have something to do with each other. Madam Secretary of State, you have rightly presented an action plan following the second covid wave to combat gender-related and intra-family violence. It is a very concise piece of work, resulting from a rare and pressing situation. I would like to refer, as my colleague did in the previous question, to the resolution on intra-family violence, in particular against women and children, from the Social Emancipation Advisory Committee. It states that the problem is a constant one, but that the crisis period has worsened and placed more emphasis on it. This means, of course, that a much more comprehensive action plan is needed, for which you will need your colleagues and also the colleagues from the Länder to engage in a thorough fight against such violence. You can certainly take our resolution as a basis for this. She was also as good as Chamberwide. When can we expect a national action plan to combat gender-related and intra-family violence from your fellow ministers? Mr President, I would simply like to take the three questions together with your permission. A number of analyses have been carried out. We have therefore taken the following issue into account in the resolution. The follow-up of the perpetrator is particularly important in preventing and combating intra-family violence. You yourself included in your action plan as a short-term action the following: 'The covid pandemic has highlighted the need for low-threshold guidance. A chat line for perpetrators of sexual violence will be developed as a pilot project.' It has been clear to me for a long time that we also had to work with the perpetrators. However, I have the following questions. In the meantime, is the project in progress? Do you have any idea if it works and has results? How long will the project run? That's not entirely clear to me. How will the pilot project be evaluated? Have you made a zero measurement of this to compare results? If the project turns out to be positive, how will the project continue? Which body will be responsible for the final implementation of the pilot project or chat line? I come to my third question, which has been raised before. She's about anonymous contacting helplines. Madam Secretary of State, both in your action plan to combat gender-related and intra-family violence following the second covid wave and in the resolution, it was argued that such calls would not be visible on the telephone bill, as that fact could put victims at extra risk. In what way have you recorded that in the meantime? What are the responses of the telecom operators? What period can this proposal be implemented? In short, what is the state of play? Madam Secretary of State, those were my three questions, all three from a different angle looking at one and the same problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, Belgium, as we understand it, has been involved in the fight against gender-based violence for many years, considering that this is a key element of equality between women and men. Since 2001, Belgium has been implementing its policy to combat gender-based violence through a national action plan involving the Federal State, the Communities and the Regions. It is coordinated by the Institute for Gender Equality. Several plans followed. The last one came to an end in 2019. So I'm asking you these questions. Have the drafting of the new plan started? How long do you think it can be developed and implemented? Has a timetable already been set? What will be the priorities? Will a specific budget be allocated to it? What will be the role of civil and associative society in developing and monitoring this plan? Finally, what is the status of the consultation with the federated entities? How do you intend to coordinate the federal plan with the three existing regional action plans? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u11	Madam Member, the issue of violence against women has been my priority since I joined the government. Vivaldi was born in a context where violence against women was on the rise. Measures had therefore to be taken as a matter of urgency, and ways to combat domestic violence had to be found. In November 2020, I launched the Federal Action Plan to Combat Gender and Domestic Violence, following the second wave of covid-19. In November 2020, I launched the federal action plan to combat gender-based violence and intra-family violence following the second corona wave. Several measures decided in this context will be extended under the National Action Plan to Combat Gender-Based Violence 2021-2025. This will be the case, for example, for the implementation of the COL 20/2020 aimed at generalizing the practice of re-visiting by police services on violence between partners. Last May, following the thirteenth femicide in our country, I took the initiative to send a letter to all the mayors of the country inviting them to continue strictly applying this measure. As regards the awareness of telecom operators, Minister De Sutter has ensured with these operators that all traces of calls from the victims to the teleservices are removed from the telephone account and that the address of the victims would not be disclosed in the event of separation. This was also done in implementation of the federal action plan. Beyond the covid plan, other initiatives have also been completed, such as the development of manuals on domestic violence, sexual violence and female genital mutilation for doctors, and mandatory training for magistrates. They are already 1,700 to take or have taken this training, which is based on the Istanbul Convention. Last January, I also supported 27 shelters for women victims of violence throughout the country as part of the EUR 1 million vulnerable public task force. As regards the chat for the perpetrators, in March April the Institute contacted the Stop It Now initiative set up in Flanders and the Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles. It looks at how the initiatives for perpetrators can be rolled out across the country. I believe it is essential that treatment programmes aimed at preventing the recurrence of sexual offenders should continue to be supported. Cooperation agreements on the supervision and treatment of offenders will be reviewed and updated with a view to new cooperation agreements following the recommendations of the Istanbul Convention. Therefore, one of the measures in the new National Action Plan is to develop a chat room for perpetrators of sexual violence, taking into account all forms of sexual violence. This is currently being discussed with the Länder. Mrs Van Hoof did not ask her questions, but I do have an answer to them. Part of the proposals contained in the resolution will be a structural part of the national action plan. In this way, I prefer to give everything a structural place in the policy, rather than carrying out many plans side by side. Cyber violence will be a major new yard in the national action plan. My services are already talking to social media platforms. In addition, we also provide for better cooperation with the police and the judiciary. Demand for support for victims by the Institute has risen sharply. In the context of the budgetary discussions, I put a question on the table for additional resources. I am counting on the support of your parties. The process of drawing up the national plan to combat gender-based violence had already begun, when the federated entities had already finalized their respective plans. It is essential for me to take into account their contribution in order to achieve a coherent national plan that meets the aspirations of all levels of power. Yesterday there was a discussion between the Federal Government and the Länder on the new plan. We're working on the plan. The GREVIO Committee of Experts asked Belgium to take measures aimed at enhanced coordination and greater policy coherence at different levels of power. Given the institutional complexity of our country, this is a major challenge, which I would like to address. This process of joint preparation of the plan is currently in the final phase. I promise to introduce it to you as soon as it's accepted. The involvement of civil society is also essential to me. Women's associations played a key role in drafting Belgium's first alternative report on the implementation of the Istanbul Convention. Also as part of the process of drawing up the plan, on 11 May 2021 I organised a broad consultation of civil society with 45 organizations on the ground. I will continue to draw on their expertise in the follow-up to this plan. Finally, with regard to the budget for this plan, I have prepared a complete dossier for the next budget conclave. I very much count on the support of our allies who want to give themselves the necessary means to combat gender-based violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I am particularly pleased that you are taking account of what has been done at regional level. It is known, particularly in the area of violence against women, how important it is to collaborate and not operate in silos. Many things, including prevention, depend on the Communities. This collaboration is therefore very important, as is the fact of having heard the associations on the ground. Indeed, they are in the front line and perform remarkable work with people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, you make all kinds of proposals and promises, but we are mainly looking at the results and progress. We note that civil society and other organisations are calling the alarm bell. The situation is very serious, we are not moving forward, we are going backwards in terms of intra-family violence. Another criticism from civil society concerns cooperation. You say you've been together. If we want a plan for the different areas, we need cooperation with the regions. I hear just the opposite, namely that there is little cooperation between ministers and the different areas. So there's still a lot of work to be done there. If this is a top priority for the government, then there must also be financial resources to achieve it. That is very clear to us. For us, this is a top priority and there must be enough resources to ensure that we can move forward so that intra-family violence does not increase, but decreases.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I am pleased to hear that there is already cooperation with the telecom operators. As far as my other two questions are concerned, I am glad to hear that the NAP 2021-2025 is in the final phase, but I would have liked to have a timing. The same with regard to the need for a low-threshold counseling of the perpetrator. I understand that you are talking about this with the Länder, but there too I miss a timing. We will follow this very closely and will ask you again next time about the state of play of these initiatives, but you certainly have us as a supporter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, according to your website and the social media, on Friday 3 September 2021 you would have participated in an inspiring walk with the theme "the social consequences of the coronapandemic." The walk was organized by Etopia, an organisation that is reportedly close to Ecolo, in the context of the ecological summer meetings VertPop. An sich would not be your participation so special, but the activity was only accessible to women "and all people who feel like women." That's politically correct language for "bans on men." So we can't call that really inclusive. Did you actually participate in that conscious walk? How does that fit in with your inclusive policies and your position on gender equality? In your opinion, is there discrimination between men and women? What is your argument? Is the small scale of an activity, in this case this hike with supposedly 20 participants for two hours on three days an argument not to be able to speak of discrimination? In other words, if an activity is small enough, can it not be discriminatory? Finally, I would like some linguistic advice. Your spokesperson stated in a media response that this activity should not be seen as forbidden to men, but rather as reserved for women and people who feel like women. What is the distinction between the concepts of 'bans for' and'reserved for'?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u16	Madam Secretary of State, I was also surprised when I saw your call for a men's march. Everyone has the freedom of association, I do not want to question this right, but when we are Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities for Men and Women, this equality, in its own definition, excludes any form of discrimination! So your position, in this case, is a problem for me. Not that you are acting as you want as a citizen, but as a representative of this government. It is hard for me to be afraid of my Secretary of State making such a call. I would therefore like to know your conception and how you define yourself in relation to this principle of equality. I repeat, it is very important that we should be able to follow together the steps that you are advocating in your general policy note, but then I would like to see us talking about the same thing. However, for the time being, according to what I have unfortunately been able to read and notice, it is clear that this is not the case. I will therefore listen to you with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u17	Mr President, the walk has indeed brought about something. I agree with the questions that have already been asked. Madam Secretary of State, you have a legitimate concern for gender equality in the consequences of the covid crisis. However, I wonder why you support an initiative where men are not welcome. I know a lot of men share the same concern with you. I was therefore wondering to what extent you considered it unsafe for women to have insights into the unequal effects of the covid crisis on women during an inspiring walk in the company of men. I would also have liked to know whether you will discourage activities that discourage the participation of certain genders in the future. Do you intend to participate in such activities yourself? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u18	There is no doubt that you are not surprised that I agree with these questions. I would like to thank the men who have had the courage to speak here, because that is not so obvious. Unlike some of my colleagues, I was not really surprised. Ever since your first day as Secretary of State, every statement and every policy letter has been a kind of activist urge to constantly create a man/feminine hour. This is something from your past that you take with you in your post as Secretary of State. It's also something that's disturbed me from the beginning because you're just creating boxes with this. You are doing exactly the opposite of what should happen in a society that seeks equal opportunities. You create boxes and inequality, but you do this in a direction that can be justified for you. Your explanation of this march would be laughable, should it not be so poignant. After all, your cabinet stated that it was not forbidden, but the event was reserved for anyone who is not man-man. This is downright hilarious. If we build on that, we may also be able to reserve an activity for men alone or reserve jobs for men alone. I know who will stand on the highest pillar, namely yourself. You need to think about what you're doing to others. This must be something that can be tolerated. This is certainly not the case. This was just ridicul because it was about the consequences of the corona measures. According to your explanation, it would not feel safe for a woman to talk about the consequences of the corona measures if there are men present. I don't know how hard one can pull something by the hair. In fact, I thought it was more laughable than very bad, but you also put that forward in your policy, for example, and you continue to do so consistently on matters such as intra-family violence. We have just had two actual debates here that went all the way in that direction. I would like to remind you of something else. You will not hear me deny that women are much more likely to be victims of intra-family violence and men are more likely to be offenders. That's just a fact. It would be ridiculous to deny that. So don't get me wrong, no one here denies it. However, if you know that one in seven men is also involved and you know that that taboo is even greater for men, why should you consistently increase that taboo for those men? They have the same experience and deserve the same policy when they are victims and not the perpetrator, just as women who are perpetrators deserve the same policy as men who are perpetrators. Why do you always keep making that man-feminine hour instead of seeing "equal opportunities" as what it should be: equal treatment, not separate. And so don't think a woman's murder is worse. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What are you going to do, Mr President, that is a very specific question: do this legislature deal with the even greater taboo that exists for male victims to speak after sexual violence? I would have liked an answer to that particular question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u19	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I am not going to go back to the context of this march that you know very well. I would like to go beyond political considerations to the explanations given by your spokesman. We were indeed waiting for explanations. We were all questioned by your participation in this march. Instead of hearing you, we heard your spokesman explain that we should not present this event as "forbidden to" but rather as "reserved to". "It's just a girls' walk, it's not a declaration of war against men," he added. In addition, he said that you had decided to participate in this non-mixed meeting, ensuring that you had weighed the pros and cons of such participation. Madam Secretary of State, how did you balance the pros and cons and finally decide to participate in the September 3, 2021 meeting? What is your position on holding non-mixed public events? Do you consider them to be in compliance with the Anti-Discrimination Act, which prohibits restricting access to public events to certain categories of the population, particularly on the basis of criteria protected by law, with very strict exceptions? Do you not think that such events could strengthen the divide in society between men and women? Was it an isolated participation or is it in line with your current and future policy on equality between men and women?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, I will not hide from you having been a little surprised by the scale of this event of September 3. There was a lot of unrest in the press and on social media. In fact, I took the opportunity to perfect my understanding of the origin of non-mixedness in social movements. A great deal of interesting information has been published and shared on this occasion, notably by researchers and sociologists from different universities who have demonstrated the role of non-mixedness, especially in feminist struggles, but also in anti-racist and LGBTQI+ struggles, etc. Given the opportunity given by my colleagues, in the current debate, to come back to this issue, I would be interested to know why, in the course of your duties, you considered it appropriate to join this activity on that day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, my mission as Secretary of State for Gender Equality is to combat all the inequalities present in our society, for all citizens, as stated in this passage of the majority agreement whose implementation is my responsibility: "The government will pursue an active policy on gender equality and a proactive policy that will tackle structural and historical imbalances." It is therefore not a contemplative mission aimed at maintaining a status quo, but a mission of transformation of society towards effective equality between women and men. The last IEFH report we have just mentioned is very clear about this. Women still suffer inequality and its consequences on a daily basis. These inequalities worsened during the crisis. That is why I deal with meetings and dialogues with citizens. An important part of my work is to listen to people and give their concerns and needs a place in policy. So I agreed, like other speakers, to meet a group of women who wanted to tell how they experienced the covid crisis. As many studies have shown us, due to the different lockdowns, the crisis has considerably increased women's domestic work and has influenced them economically and increased partner violence. Of course, many men have been seriously affected by the health and social consequences of this crisis. It is not a question of competing among categories of the population but of taking into account the specificities of the impact on certain categories of the population. This tour was therefore intended for women wishing to share a specific experience and represented two hours of activities on a three-day program in which I also participated, in all mix. What's more normal for a political representative than listening to citizens? This has been done all the time, and not to do so would be strongly criticized to me. For example, on April 19, Mr. Clarinval met with the non-mixed network of women entrepreneurs, without any reaction from you. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u22	There is a time for Ms. Secretary of State's response, and there will be time for the reply. Mrs Schlitz gave her answer. Go on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u23	As for the organization chosen by the organizers of the event in question, i.e. allowing women to gather together to advance topics that specifically affect them, it is absolutely not new. What is new and radical is the will, expressed by some of you, to ban such gatherings. In 2014, the President of the Senate and 42 women politicians, all political parties, met in a non-mixed manner to demand a ministry of women's law, without causing any outrageous reaction. Christian, socialist or liberal women organize themselves in their respective networks and have contributed to the place women occupy in politics today. Mrs Jadin, you yourself have created the non-mixed For'Her platform, together with other women politicians in the Verviers district, an initiative which I also welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u24	You have the right to a reply. Mrs Jadin, you have come to ask Mrs Schlitz questions and she is in the process of answering them. You're waiting for your reply time. You will have two minutes to reply and say all the good or all the evil you think. For the rest, you are in the government with Mrs Schlitz, so talk about it in your proceedings. Here we respect Mrs Schlitz's right to speak, who answers your questions. If you don't like the answer, I can't help it. Go on, Mrs. Schlitz.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. So I could list such events for a long time. Although this method of associative or political organization has been running from the source for years, it seems that I have to explain it again. There is an important difference in nature between, on the one hand, a non-mixity suffered, i.e. imposed by persons who hold a form of power, as is the case with segregation, apartheid, censorial suffrage where women are excluded from the right to vote, and, on the other hand, a non-mixity chosen temporarily by a proportion of the minority population or marginalized with a project of political emancipation. In the chosen non-mixity, such as that of the event you are questioning, it is not a question of establishing or maintaining a discriminatory society project but, on the contrary, the establishment of a strategic political tool, an area of freedom in order to strengthen the consciences and tools of the participants in the face of the various inequalities they are victims of. This method of organisation is therefore momentary and confined to certain specific audiences concerned with a common problem or experience. The struggles carried out by self-organised groups of women have also made major contributions to progress towards gender equality throughout history, from the suffragettes in favour of women's right to vote to the manifesto of the 343 claiming the right to abortion. Just like you don't invite the boss to a union meeting to discuss working conditions or a network specifically for female entrepreneurs doesn't approve. Let it be clear that for me it was an invitation that serves a higher purpose: to allow everyone to participate fully in society. I would also like to remind you that there is no need to be a woman to fight for gender equality. On the contrary, everyone can help make the fight against sexism and the pay gap a political priority, for example. Hopefully, your indignation about the inequalities that still exist in our society is as great as your indignation about this walk and we can work on it together. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u26	Thank you for your flight ahead. I've rarely seen water and fire reconcile like this. It was almost to defend discrimination in the name of non-discrimination. I'd like to compare this to someone who drives the moat regularly. Once that person's driven into the canal, he starts steering, but that's a little late, of course. That's how I interpret your answer. Les excuses sont faces pour s'en servir. I'm sure you're not unaware of that proverb. I am beginning to ask questions about your course. You knocked on your chest that you would do something about equal opportunities, but your palmaress is not really to write about home. Then I'm still softly expressing myself. I am thinking of your policy letter and your policy statement, in which I at one point as a man doubted whether I was still welcome to discuss it. I had the impression at some point that it was steeped in some sort of hatred for men. Then we will not talk about the fault that you had forgotten a Dutch-speaking deaf interpreter, but the French-speaking one had brought along. I am also thinking of the appointment of a good lady as government commissioner. The lady wore a headscarf, which did not immediately promote the neutrality of our institutions. Now there's this. You are promoting an inspiring march that is de facto forbidden for men. You give a very big explanation, but in the end it is forbidden for men. Your race route is a straight and narrow course. You drive quite fanatical from one moat to another. You'll only stay on the track by lifting service Alexander De Croo. It's about time they took away your driver's license, or it might be even better if you filed your driver's license. In your place, I might offer my resignation and honor to myself, because you are now no longer Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, but a Secretary of State for Unfair Opportunities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u27	Madam Secretary of State, at the core, my question was formulated in such a way as to be constructive, at least I hoped so. I hoped at least to have the opportunity to discuss with you something really fundamental for our living together and for the struggles that I have been leading for a very long time on many levels. May I remind you, Madam Secretary of State. I therefore have no lesson to learn from you about the fight we must wage for greater equality of opportunity and equality between men and women. In a pluralistic society where we want to share similar values in order to be able to build the society of tomorrow, more egalitarian and by giving more opportunities to men and women, I have always defended the fact that we must, at some point, question ourselves how to achieve it. I believe that differentiation of rights is not a useful tool for achieving equality in all respects. I remain convinced, Madam Secretary of State, that what you are promoting, namely the prohibition of a mix or rather of a kind at a demonstration, is not the right path. It is even fundamentally contrary to the fundamental rights of our State. As such, I consider that my Secretary of State, whom I support, may, at some point, do something other than persist and sign or develop arguments that I do not consider very wise intellectually. I'm weighing my words! We could also have a discussion on this, especially as you quote my actions, Madam Secretary of State. I do not agree at all that we continue to work together in this way. I really wish we could regain a sense of serenity, contrary to what I have just experienced in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u28	The fight for equal opportunities is an important battle, for which you will find a partner in me. I can assure you that my indignation about inequality is very great, greater than on this walk. You are responsible for gender equality. In that case, it is indeed logical that you, as a politically responsible person, should participate in activities in the fight for more gender equality and that you should engage in dialogue with different groups. It is therefore illogical that this type of activity, which deals with an important theme, a theme aimed at one particular gender, should not be opened up to others, in this case men. With your presence, you give a signal that you can be interpreted as supporting activities that discourage the presence of certain groups of men in this case, even though you may not have meant it that way. I assume it was well-intentioned, but in 2021 it sounds outdated that women in this country would not feel safe when they express their opinions and that men would remain deaf, stupid, blind or whatever for......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the contrary, it seems to me to be just a subject that requires a positive, inclusive approach, including raising awareness among men in order to seek solutions together. For me, therefore, it remains a well-intentioned initiative, which I fully support, but unfortunately, its exclusive character largely undermines it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, it is really problematic that you, as Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, do not see the problem. It is hallucinating to see how you build up an argument with intellectually indefenable arguments, slandering others like it doesn't matter and now pretending to have received that group to listen to their complaints. No! Let us not forget: you have actively promoted the march, you have participated in a manifestation, and that is all entirely in line with every argument you hold. The chapter on feminism because all other forms of discrimination you consider to be a lot less important must at all costs count the most number of pages of your policy letter. That even went so far that you ordered a cabinet employee to come up with another piece, which became the last title: "There will be an emergency app for deaf women and girls"! As if the fact that one cannot reach the 112 is due to the fact that one is a woman or a girl instead of the fact that one is deaf. The deaf boys had to find it somewhere else. You constantly go ridiculously far into your activist feminism and you achieve exactly the opposite of what you want, especially that no one listens to you anymore while there is inequality. When I see your coalition partners react, I also wonder if your position is still sustainable, but it's up to them to cut that knot. To me, you are not the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, but the Secretary of State for Unfair Opportunities. What also annoys me terribly is that you never answer questions. At first I could forgive you, but we've been at it for a while now, you're reading a note. You've done that again. There have been very specific questions, which were also put in advance. You could have prepared that, but you did not answer any questions. You've read a note, but you're still not getting much further. I'm sorry, but I'm gonna have to raise that level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u30	I don't know if it's conscious or not, but you absolutely didn't answer my questions, which were very clear. The DéFI group does not question women's freedom to express their experience with each other, nor the usefulness of non-mixed meetings in certain circumstances. What is problematic here – I didn't hear you on this nuance of importance – is that this approach was public. However, the law formally prohibits the prohibition of access to such public marches or demonstrations to certain categories of persons – because that is what this was about – on the basis of criteria that are protected by law, whether they be religion, sexual orientation, disability or sex. The law does provide for exceptions, but there must be a compelling reason to restrict access to a specific category of persons. It is for this reason that victims of violence, domestic violence or anonymous alcoholics are allowed to meet together to talk about the experience. This is a walk on the subject of the impact of the health crisis on gender equality. This in no way justifies the creation of such a secure space. In the same way, we would not see the Gay Pride banned for non-LGBT people overnight or a march against racism reserved for people of colour. It is in this that your participation in such a march, which by your office engages your government, was counterproductive. In doing so, there is a risk of increased competition between population groups, which you yourself said you wanted to avoid. By generalizing what should be an exception, you permanently lock the heterosexual white man in an oppressive role when we all know here that they are not all. At the same time, we need men to advance the cause of women and to reduce the social divide between men and women.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u31	Madam Secretary of State, I will highlight some important points for me. We are living in a world of non-mixedness that is still very strongly affected. I am surprised, after following a very high summit with members of the European Commission in Slovakia whose subject was the transition at European level, that there were only men. I followed my Twitter feed and saw no one denounce it and shout to the wolf that Europe can settle between twenty men who decide what the transition is today. It went as if nothing was happening. This non-mixedness is still present everywhere in the highest spheres of the state, and I am surprised that this does not give rise to such concern among colleagues in general. The chosen non-mixity for men still exists in Belgium. It has already been said in committee that this is happening in private places. We talked about the Gallic circle, about the Freemasonry Federations of the Great East. Yes, these are private spaces, but eminently places of power in which many of my male colleagues regularly visit. There, too, there is no special denunciation of this situation. And don't say they're neutral spaces. That's not true! These are places that bring together politicians, business leaders or important male media personalities. These are places where power is exercised, and I do not see that it arouses a great deal of anger or indignation. Finally, without spreading to me, you have recalled that the chosen non-mixity has been and remains at the heart of the struggles for equality for different minorities or minority groups. I think that today it is worrying to hear that this is causing such harassment, because it is our fundamental rights to come together and talk about what affects us collectively that are still being questioned in this committee today. I'm worried. This worries me all the more because, as women politicians, this is still done regularly. In the various parties, there are places where we meet between women because it remains relevant for us, women politicians, to fight for equality. I don't want us to end up telling us what we can do or what we can't do as women. There are still non-mixed spaces that are organized by women politicians today. I'll give an example. It is not at all to point the finger at a colleague DeFI in Brussels. Tomorrow, this colleague supports a chosen non-mixed workshop. The site says "Meeting exclusively for future women entrepreneurs", a meeting sponsored by an échevine who is not my political group for the coup. I don't understand the hustle and bustle created. I'd like a little serenity when we talk about our rights to organize.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u32	We have just had two topical debates on serious problems, namely gender discrimination and intra-family violence. To talk about something like that right now. I do not get that told to working people who are discriminated against every day and deal with all kinds of things every day. I find it incredibly hypocritical that a number of political parties speak of discrimination, while they themselves spread hatred and then come here to play the lesson. I have a very big problem with that. For me, this really isn't an issue that people are awake from right now. We must deal with anti-discrimination and equality between all people. That's my point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u33	This has been a fascinating topical debate. Where a walk can all lead.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u34	Mrs Rohonyi, thank you for your proposal of mobile teams to combat domestic violence. All contributions are, of course, welcome to fight this scourge. My plan to combat gender violence is being finalized. It has been the subject of a wide consultation of 45 civil society associations and actors on the ground. The proposal of mobile teams was not submitted by the associations. The sector stresses above all the importance of starting from what exists in order to build our policies. On the one hand, it is necessary to ensure the effectiveness of existing policies and, on the other hand, to support and strengthen existing actors and actors and encourage them to work better together. The associations also strongly insist on not giving in to the temptation of magic wands against violence. I am part of this systemic and integrated approach to the fight against gender violence. One measure that can be brought closer to mobile teams is the principle of revisiting that I generalized when I took office via the COL20 2020 of the College of Attorneys General, which was addressed to all prosecutors in the country. As you know, it is for the police to resume contact with victims of violence who have complained in the past. Contact may also be made with the author if necessary. It is an effective and community-based way to assess the situation and show the victim that police and support services are still available even in times of health crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u35	I hear that the lead that I have proposed to you has not itself been put forward by the actors you have met in the preparation of your plan. However, I would like to regret it. We're not leaving anything. There are already some measures, but it must be noted that they are not sufficient on this day. You mention the resumption of contact with victims who have already filed a complaint in the last weeks or months. However, the majority of victims are not always in the process of filing a complaint. Therefore, what are we doing to establish contact with these victims? In addition, the police remain what they are. Although most officers are trained in the reception of victims of domestic violence – in any case, they are working on it – he is not always the best interlocutor a victim needs first. So I think this lead that I mentioned with you is still interesting, not to mention that we're not leaving anything. It is an experience that has been set up in other countries and that we can benefit from. I am also thinking of the mobile teams set up in terms of mental health and whose work is bearing fruit. I will not talk at all about "magic fly" but simply about the need to diversify measures to help victims in their diversity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u36	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the case in Gavere with the 14-year-old girl who was raped by near-age people made it painfully clear once again that in our country there is a great taboo on everything that has to do with personal integrity and its violation. Victim blamingis a major factor in this process, which encourages the dark number. That's disturbing. After all, the figures we do know about rape, abuse, sexual violence and intra-family violence are already very high. However, in order to pursue a more decisive policy, we really need to work with correct data. Not only do the dark number have specific individuals under the radar, but we do not have a complete view of the social trends that could increase our knowledge in this area. That is why, and again following the resolution on intra-family violence, which referred to the above as a concrete point of action, I have the following questions. Have you taken initiatives or do you have initiatives in the pipeline to make sure that the dark number becomes visible? In what way do you see a better data exchange possible in order to make our knowledge as concrete as possible? Will you give the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, as requested in the resolution, a concrete mandate or project to investigate and roll out this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, I fully agree with you that statistics are important in the fight against domestic violence. Measuring is knowing. The data from police, justice, hospitals, etc. should help us to make our policies focused and efficient. In addition, it is also essential to encourage victims to seek help and complain as much as possible. Belgium has a number of statistics on gender-based violence, but the lack of gender-specific data and the lack of concentration of these data remains problematic. The National Action Plan to Combat Gender-based Violence (NAP) will aim to increase the availability and reliability of gender-specific statistics. To achieve this objective, the Action Plan proposes several measures, including the establishment of a Working Group on Statistics and the publication of annual national statistics on gender-related violence. The IGVM is working on a project, in collaboration with the Interfederal Institute for Statistics, Statbel and the Länder. On the basis of a survey, 7,200 people in Belgium will be questioned about their experiences with gender-based violence. The study is expected to deliver results in 2022. I shall, of course, keep Parliament informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u38	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. Your announcement about the IGVM sounds like music to me. I will therefore be able to ask you again for a state of affairs in a few months' time. The working group you mentioned earlier is rather vague. I hope that something concrete will emerge from that very quickly. We will also follow that closely. At least good luck with all the measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u39	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, since the 2007 anti-discrimination laws, language has been one of the grounds of discrimination against which the law intends to combat (section 3). The Belgian legislator has entrusted the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities (UNIA) with the task of ensuring the proper application of the anti-discrimination law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u40	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Rohonyi, with regard to the recommendation of the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, the question arose as to which body would be the most appropriate to deal with individual complaints of discrimination based on language. This committee recommends that this competence be entrusted to the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, but Unia could also assume this role. This institute has a residual and general competence and is competent for matters under federal jurisdiction which are not dealt with by other specific bodies. This could therefore concern discrimination on the basis of language. However, it does not have jurisdiction over the individual handling of complaints. The fact that there are currently no specific bodies dealing with language discrimination does not prevent the implementation of existing redress and defence mechanisms. As a protected criterion enshrined in the law, a person who is a victim of discrimination on the basis of language may apply to courts and tribunals on the basis of the Anti-Discrimination Act, both in civil and criminal law. It can therefore also be based on the general regime, in particular that of civil liability. You mentioned the administrative supervision over the municipalities provided by the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control (CPCL). Everyone may lodge a complaint with the Commission for any violation of the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters committed by a public service. After reviewing the complaint, the CPCL gives its opinion. These opinions have great moral authority but are not legally binding. As the majority agreement specifies, the landscape formed by the various public bodies for the promotion of equality and human rights will be assessed. The treatment of individual complaints of discrimination, including those based on language, will be part of this assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u41	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer. Your role with regard to equal opportunities was mentioned earlier. Equal opportunities also include the right of everyone to exercise their rights and to lodge complaints when they are discriminated against. Today, however, the reality in Belgium is that, if one has the misfortune of being discriminated against on the basis of language, which is a criterion protected by the anti-discrimination law, rather than on another criterion, there is absolutely no support available to victims of other types of discrimination. This is the reality of Belgium in 2021. When I speak of these people, I am of course thinking of the French-speaking people in Flanders, but also of the Dutch-speaking people in Brussels, and of the German-speaking community. The members of the latter make use of one of our three national languages. But I'm also thinking about people of foreign origin. Today, people who are discriminated against are supported by Unia, and others are not at all. In fact, Unia would like things to change, the United Nations too. They told us in a fairly clear way. We are therefore faced with discrimination in discrimination, and that must change, Madam Secretary of State. I really draw your attention to this problem. Now that the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights exists, I think it is more than time for it to receive this competence. This anti-discrimination law, which is now more than 14 years old, has been largely exceeded by a reasonable period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u42	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, 'To the loudest of all, to the most primitive, to the worst of all, to the worst of all, to the worst of all, to the worst of all, to the right, to the brightest of all, to the brightest of all, to the brightest of all, to the Flemish, to the most unpleasant'. I don't know if you like the poem. It certainly rhymes. It is a poem by Stijn De Paepe, who publishes poems in De Morgen. There's no need to argue about tastes. Although I find this a particularly offensive, hateful and hateful poem, he has the right to write it. I don't have a problem with it. We know him. He's a fairly hateful person. That's his right, I'm defending it. Amazing though was the fact that Mrs. Els Keytsman liked and even retweeted this on Twitter. It is not a name-named person, but it is the director of Unia, the Equal Opportunities Centre, which aims to promote equality of opportunity and the management of diversity and to combat any form of discrimination, inter alia, on the basis of national or ethnic origin. Her approval of a hateful piece is insulting to many inhabitants of this country. By retweeting it, she falls tremendously out of character and harms the credibility of Unia. Do you agree that this is how Mrs Keytsman fell out of her role? Will you address her and point out to her the deontology of her function?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u43	Ms. Keytsman published the tweet on her personal account. In addition, as you know, Unia is an independent institution that is solely accountable to Parliament. So you can address your questions directly to Mrs Keytsman. I welcome your attention to the fight against hate speech. Hopefully, therefore, your group will be prepared to support the reform of Article 150 of the Constitution. That is what the victims of hate speech really need in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u44	If you have an answer prepared by your cabinet, there is a risk that you will miss the ball. Because you're completely wrong. I have said that I fully defend Mr De Paepe's freedom. Unlike this government, I'm in favour of free speech. It is therefore vain hope that I would support you in restricting freedom of expression. I won't. You open your umbrella and avoid your responsibility, but you reveal your opinions on all kinds of other issues relating to discrimination and the spread of hatred. That is remarkable and means that you are working with two sizes and two weights and you are not credible in your role as Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. You're proving your incompetence again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u45	"Madam the Secretary of State,
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u46	In the positive, how? If not, why?"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u47	Mrs Rohonyi, thank you for your question. I cannot comment on the motives behind the MRAX campaign, my firm has not been involved in any way in this campaign, but I can of course explain my anti-Semitism policy. First of all, there is the intensive work of drawing up the national action plan against racism: NAPAR. This action plan is intersectional and covers the different forms of racism, including anti-Semitism. It is mentioned, textually, in the intention of the plan, therefore there is no ambiguity in this regard. Jewish organizations are also part of the NAPAR coalition, i.e. the gathering of civil society organizations involved in the development of the action plan. The MRAX is also part of the same NAPAR coalition. I see no complacency with anti-Semitism or with any other form of racism in the coalition. Their fight is permanent and I support them in this process. In addition to the intersectional approach that is being developed within the framework of the NAPAR plan, my services coordinate the anti-Semitism watch cell. This cell brings together the most important representatives of the Jewish community, Unia, as well as the justice, police and security services. The agenda shall be drawn up in consultation with all members. The next meeting in December will be organised in cooperation with the federated entities and will focus on combating anti-Semitism in education. I would like to recall here that anti-Semitism has been widely and for a long time carried by conspiracy and revisionist theories, some of which are also spreading among the ranks of parties present in this Parliament. I find it unacceptable that anti-Semitism in any form still exists today. Mrs Rohonyi, I take the fight against anti-Semitism very seriously. I work on it in an inclusive, intersectional and specific way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u48	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your commitment and your response. It is true that you have not been involved at all in this MRAX campaign, but I wanted to hear your opinion on this, in particular because it undermines all the efforts the government intends to make in the fight against anti-Semitism. What are the facts? An association charged with combating anti-Semitism has – through this campaign – denied, invisibly or even trivialized a reality, namely that Jews are still victims of anti-Semitic speech, violence, aggression, desecration of property. Even today, Jews are thinking of leaving our country because they no longer feel safe. I know you're aware of that. However, this campaign gives us the impression that this phenomenon does not exist. It is for this reason that she is worrying. In the face of this phenomenon, I am pleased to hear that you are developing a dialogue with associations and federated entities to take concrete action against anti-Semitism, as well as against all other forms of racism. In my view, the fight against anti-Semitism must be an integral part of your inter-federal action plan against racism, because the fight against racism and anti-Semitism requires mutual recognition of all suffering, with a view to building true solidarity – and certainly not competition between the various anti-racist struggles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u49	On 21 March, the International Day against Racism and Discrimination, I asked you about Belgium's inadequate anti-racism policy. In particular, I raised the issue of discrimination tests on the labour market. The Belgian labour market is the labour market with the greatest ethnic discrimination between the EU and the OECD. The government promises time and time again to relax the law on practical tests so that the discrimination tests can be carried out better. So far, however, nothing has come of this. The figures of the number of discrimination tests I requested from the Minister of Work in 2020 speak volumes. Only 40 files were opened by the Labour Inspectorate. Of these, only five have been taken into account for the implementation of the discrimination tests and no test has been carried out. I fell off my chair! To be honest, I expect little improvement by 2021, because the legislative proposals of the majority MEPs to remove the thresholds for proactive testing were put in the refrigerator in favour of the government's draft that is still waiting and actually going much less. Will you put pressure on the government to put in place a legal framework for the systematic implementation of the proactive practical tests? Will you exert pressure to abolish the condition of the expressly prior agreement of the employment officer or the procurator of the King? After all, that is a brake. Will you argue for more resources and staff in the social inspection so that it can properly fulfil its mission to combat discrimination in the labour market?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u50	With the government, we are aiming for greater and more inclusive participation in the labour market. Any person who is denied access to the labour market by discrimination is too much. However, as you rightly point out, the current legislative framework does not allow us to carry out systematic discrimination tests. Together with Mr Dermagne, I aim to improve the legal framework on discrimination testing. A preliminary draft law was drawn up which lowers the thresholds for such tests in practice. This allows them to be carried out on a larger scale. Of course, the proposed changes remain within the framework of the government agreement. Of course, I also think it is important that the necessary resources are made available to combat discrimination. For my part, I have already put on the table a dossier for the 2022 budget to contribute to this. Several bodies, including the Institute for Gender Equality, Unia and the Data Protection Authority, have already given their opinion on the proposals. The preliminary draft law is now before the National Labour Council for its opinion. The aim is to bring the law into force by the beginning of next year. Thank you for joining us in the search for an inclusive society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u51	If we no longer want discrimination in the labour market, proactive tests will have to be carried out. There are still too many intermediate steps to ensure that this discrimination continues. I find it frightening that migrants are beginning to find it normal that they are not treated equally. That's really not normal. A friend of mine is just that, she has to try ten times more than anyone else. That's not right. We really need to fight around there. There have been better legislative proposals. They moved on and reduced discrimination. Undeclared work is prohibited and discrimination is equally illegal. We must therefore make every effort to avoid any discrimination in the labour market. I hope that this will be done seriously. In any case, our group will support those who want to go as far as possible with anti-discrimination policies in the workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u52	Questions No 55018775C, No 55019735C and No 55019736C by Mr Patrick Prévot are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u53	Madam Secretary of State, we have been waiting a long time for the third edition of this inter-federal action plan. This would initially have been completed in spring 2021, but the long-term government formation has slowed down. From answers from the Flemish Minister for Equal Opportunities to parliamentary questions, I could see that the timing for the inter-federal action plan would have shifted to autumn 2021. In Flanders, and probably also in the other sub-areas, the different policy areas were questioned to give their approach to the new action plan. Now all eyes are on you. They are waiting for an initiative from you to take the last straight line to the new plan. Madam Secretary of State, is the envisaged framework of objectives maintained? Are there any changes planned? Do you already have the content of the various policy areas at federal level and from the different sub-areas? Can you also give a general state of affairs? Have you already contacted the sub-areas with a view to finalising the action plan? When do you think you'll have it ready? I would also like to know whether the new action plan provides for a ban on conversion therapy for holebis. I believe that this is a problem that we urgently need to address.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u54	Mr De Caluwé, I had prepared an answer for the three speakers. So I'll give it to you in its entirety. Violence and discrimination against LGBTQI+ people are worrying, especially in a context where the crisis exacerbates inequalities and exposes minorities to new dangers. Mr Prévôt, who had postponed his question, referred to the worrying figures of UNIA. This body received 406 reports of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. However, this number reflects only part of the reality, since LGBTQI-phobia victims are often afraid or ashamed to denounce them. The public space remains particularly hostile: this is where homophobic and transphobic violence is the most severe, as shown by the shocking testimony of VRT journalist Riadh Bahri. Mr de Caluwe, I agree with you that we need to increase our knowledge in order to better understand the needs and realities of the people affected. One of the main objectives of the future plan is to optimise research in order to achieve a standardised data collection. The Belgian legislative framework is very advanced, but Belgium ranks third with the highest percentage of Igbtqi-foob physical violence, just after Poland and Romania, according to a study by the Fundamental Rights Agency (FRA). Belgium is also one of the countries where certain individuals, even in this parliament, are increasingly comfortable stigmatizing lgbtqi+ individuals. The initial objective of the new SOGIESC plan is to effectively combat discrimination and enhance the safety of our LGBT citizens. Thank you, Mr De Caluwé, for highlighting the temporal constraints of our legislature. That is why I am trying to get this plan adopted as soon as possible. At the federal level, I am already developing major projects in areas such as health, administrative services, justice and the public service. I take every opportunity to advance the rights of LGBT people. That is how I was able to unlock large amounts of money to open more than 30 places of refuge for young people who had been driven out of their homes. Given the interfederal nature, timing is a challenge, hence the delay to autumn. I do indeed have separate lists of actions by area of competence. However, these are too long and too detailed to share here. You can request them in writing. In addition, this third action plan will be co-built with civil society. With regard to conversion therapies, as I have already said in this committee, I fully support the introduction of their ban as soon as possible. Finally, with regard to the means available, I have prepared a solid dossier for the budgetary conclave. I count on the government's support in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic584x.u55	Thank you for your clear and comprehensive answer. I have received an answer to all my questions. I'm looking forward to the plan. We will probably discuss this in committee. I have also noted your suggestion to request the list of recommendations from the different areas of competence in writing. I'll do the same.
