ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u1	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of February 2021, the Dutch transmission system operator TenneT communicated on the security of supply for the coming years of the Netherlands. The report contained a striking passage. Let me quote: "There is often simultaneous scarcity in the Netherlands together with Germany, Denmark and, to a lesser extent, Belgium. A further strengthening of connections to these countries will therefore hardly reduce deficits in the Netherlands." This is somewhat striking, because the reverse case, i.e. simultaneous scarcity in the Belgian rule zone, according to Elia's most recent report would be much less coincident with scarcity in the Netherlands. That is not necessarily contradictory, but that obviously means that these two countries have different interests. The Netherlands also points out that more needs to be done about the import of electricity. I have some questions about that. First of all, are there any remarkable differences between the data and conclusions of these TSOs? Secondly, are there opportunities in this area for this country? Thirdly, does this have an impact on the data used in relation to the capacity compensation mechanism? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u2	Mr President, Mr Wollants, in reply to your first question, I can tell you that the Dutch TSO report is more recent than the most recent Elia adequacy report of 2019. After all, it is based on the most recent European adequacy analysis, in particular the Mid-term Adequacy Forecast (MAF 2020). This European adequacy analysis is based on more than two gigawatts of new capacity in Belgium from 2025. Although the Dutch TSO report is more recent, it does not contain the simulations made by Elia in its previous report and which are already in line with the new European methodologies, for example on the basis of energy flows and the economic viability assessment. Elijah also takes more account of the uncertainty of foreign developments. Elia's June 2019 report identified a limited number of hours with simultaneous deficits in the Netherlands and Belgium. This is a result of slightly different consumption profiles and therefore moments of shortages, but it is also a consequence of the fact that coal plants will not close down until 2025. From that moment on, the Netherlands will be more dependent on imports and therefore also rely on Belgium. In reply to your second question, I would like to say that the results show that more interconnection can contribute to security of supply. Of course, the availability of capacity in the interconnected countries must be taken into account. Due to the closure of thermal capacity across Europe, more and more countries will rely on imports for their security of supply. It is therefore not a matter of simply assuming that there are opportunities here, because the Netherlands indicates that it will also call on imports. For your third question, I can tell you that the scenarios for determining the CRM already took account of the closure of the coal plants in the Netherlands, because it was already included in the MAF 2019, and thus the extent to which Belgium can count on imports from the Netherlands. However, we can also turn it around. Because of a CRM in Belgium there is a possibility that we will also export to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u3	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. We're gonna have to look at this in detail. Even in the scenario with Elia, this also contains a significant piece of import for us. The big question will be where the parallelity in this story is. After all, I have the impression that more and more countries are putting forward that they will achieve their adequacy through, among other things, imports. Then let's hope we don't charge all this at the same time. After all, we know that the power can't come from anywhere in the end. I am not saying that this will be the case immediately, but it could be a risk in the different approaches of the different models.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u4	Mr President, Minister, Denmark wants to build an energy island in the North Sea. This is the first time an artificial island has been built for offshore wind energy storage. The island will be a kind of offshore power plant, where the energy of hundreds of nearby wind turbines will be gathered and then redistributed. The first phase will involve about 200 wind turbines, with a total capacity of 3 GW. According to the Danish government, three million households in Europe will benefit. The goal is to achieve a capacity of 10 GW - a huge figure - which will ensure the energy consumption of 10 million households. This is an example of innovation and courage to facilitate the transition to renewable energy. It would be interesting if Belgium followed the example with a view to its own energy transition. Will the Belgian government increase wind capacity in the North Sea during this term? If so, what is the concrete timetable and for how many megawatts? What do you think of the Danish idea of creating an energy island? Has the Belgian energy atoll file returned to the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u5	Madam Member, as has already been mentioned on several occasions, an increase in offshore wind production capacity is planned in order to reach a capacity of more than 4 GW in the Belgian part of the North Sea. This project will be carried out through the launch of a competition procedure. Before we can start the procedure in question, we still have to go through various stages, which have already been commented on in this committee. The publication of the first competition is currently being considered in the course of 2023, so that the first new production facilities can be put into service from 2025 and 2026, as stipulated in the government agreement. With regard to your third question, as we mentioned in the previous committee, we are indeed instigating the ambition of maintaining our pioneering position in the field of offshore energy, and we support the project submitted by Elia for the construction of an energy hub, in other words a multifunctional energy island, in the Belgian part of the North Sea. This is a project similar to the Danish idea of creating an energy island. The energy island project concerns the construction of an island which will serve as a hub for the connection of future wind farms, replacing the project of the second giant power outlet at sea - the MOG II - in the form of three separate platforms, but also the future interconnection cables allowing the exchange of electricity with other countries, notably Denmark. This islet will have to be installed in the Princess Elizabeth area where the next wind turbines will be built in the Belgian Sea. It will be carried out at no additional cost to the consumer compared to the three platforms. The idea of energy atoll has not come back to the table. Ideas have progressed in the meantime. The energy atoll had an operational function in the sense that it was limited to energy storage. The energy island project currently on the table goes far beyond that. It is a multifunctional project that can combine various energy functions, namely transmission, storage, production and interconnection. It is therefore a multifunctional and strategic project to achieve our ambitions in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u6	Mr President, I thank the minister for her answer. I will ask her again about the sentence that is part of this answer, which is to say that this three-part platform will not have an impact on the consumer's bill. I will ask the minister about how to fund it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u7	Mr Cogolati, I do not have any new elements in this case. Moreover, I am not aware of such developments in Belgium. The situation in the United States cannot be compared to ours. Electrabel recalled its promise to honour all its commitments relating to its nuclear activities in our country. The legal framework does not prohibit the transfer of activity, but several strict conditions must be met. In the event of such a request, AFCN shall seek the opinion of ONDRAF on matters within its jurisdiction. If the Agency considers that the purchaser cannot satisfy the requirements of the regulations, the provisions of the protection against ionizing radiation and the provisions of the Order of 30 November 2011 laying down safety requirements for nuclear installations, it may propose not to authorize the transfer. The final decision will be taken in the form of a royal decree countersigned by the Minister of the Interior. For further information on this procedure, I would also refer you to Mrs Verlinden, my colleague from the Interior. In any case, I will remain attentive to the strictest respect for the polluter-pays principle when strengthening the legal framework for nuclear provisions, in order to ensure their existence, sufficiency and availability, and more generally when strengthening federal legislation on nuclear waste management, as provided for in the government agreement. In addition, we have introduced a project within the framework of the recovery plan, which aims at valuing know-how in dismantling nuclear power plants. After that of its seven reactors, Belgium will be able to become one of the world's leading industrial players in this new sector. Therefore, Mr Cogolati, I am counting on the nuclear operator to subscribe to government policy, so that the dismantling leads to a Belgian industrial project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u8	Minister, thank you for your particularly comprehensive and positive response. Two components must be distinguished. First of all, I believe that it is a good thing to protect the population, but also the workers, the environment and the Belgian State against a possible transfer of activity. It is indeed a matter of enforcing absolutely the polluter-pays principle. We could not accept that the present operator should clear his obligations by transferring the decommissioning activity, which will last at least 20 years and which will be truly delicate in terms of the management of the radioactive elements at the core of the reactors. Secondly, it seems to me quite positive to consider the dismantling of nuclear power plants as an economic opportunity. It's important to realize that. Indeed, 90% of the 193 nuclear reactors installed in the European Union will have to be dismantled because they are now over forty years old. It is therefore important that we consider the dismantling of our facilities in order to export our economic expertise in dismantling to other European countries. Madam Minister, we will support you in your work so that Belgium can become a full player in the nuclear decommissioning sector, thanks in particular to the help of European funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u9	Minister, this question is obviously linked to the previous one. It seems important to me to be able to nuance the statements that sometimes refer to economic deserts as if, in 2025, Tihange and Doel were going overnight to become deserts. This will not be the case, firstly for safety reasons, because these reactors and facilities will have to be dismantled, which will take much more than a year or two, and secondly because it is important to preserve employment on the spot. They are nuclear engineers, highly qualified people, who are very familiar with the industrial tool. A nuclear reactor is not a laundry clipping plant... It is essential to talk about the jobs that can be created after the power generation shutdown.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u10	Mr. Cogolati, like any nuclear operator, Electrabel must comply with the minimum safety and security requirements imposed by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCCA) on its sites. It is the responsibility of the AFCN to determine the requirements in terms of workers required during the dismantling phase. Electrabel informed me that she was analysing what skills and resources would remain necessary to shut down the power plants and proceed with their safe decommissioning. It carefully analyses the impact of nuclear exit and prospects for its employees and subcontractors. The company also confirmed to me that dialogue with the social partners and communication with employees are top priorities for the company. Electrabel will be able to train part of its current staff in decommissioning operations to build on their knowledge of the plant. It will also be able to call on specialised companies, mainly European, for specific operations. The management workforce that will be maintained for several decades is approximately 65 full-time equivalents per year. For Category B dismantling waste, additional storage capacity should be provided at Belgoprocess Site 1. This investment will temporarily generate a limited number of additional jobs. Subsequent management during storage will require virtually no additional staff. The different estimates for Category B and Category C wastes depend on the choice of long-term management solution for these wastes. If the first stage of the national policy decision for this waste was taken, a further ten people should come to strengthen the ONDRAF teams in particular with regard to aspects of societal dialogue and site selection. Geological storage activities are in ONDRAF's baseline scenario from 2050 onwards and will run for several decades, generating several hundred jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u11	Madam Minister, thank you. It is important to say that very precise responses are received from ONDRAF for potential job creation, in terms of the management and storage of radioactive waste - type A, B or C. What is more worrying is that just a few years (two years) after the closure of the first reactor, ENGIE Electrabel has not yet given us figures, even approximate or partial, of the number of jobs that will be maintained in Doel and Tihange. It's annoying for the workers. Who will be kept in Doel and Tihange? Workers lack prospects and it is also annoying for trade unions who do not know how to protect their members. It is also annoying for the communes, because without a fork, it is difficult for them to prepare for the post-nuclear era. I will come back with this question not only to you, but also to the Minister responsible for AFCN and, above all, ENGIE Electrabel. In fact, the operator has a responsibility as an employer, namely to guarantee the conversion and retention of employment for at least a large part of its employees who are protected by the 1962 Employment Stability Agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament 55014459C by Mrs Depraetere will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u13	Madam Minister, on 22 February last, the Council of State delivered its opinion on the amendments to the legislative proposal amending various provisions concerning the dissolution of dormant energy contracts for domestic customers and SMEs at a higher rate than the reference energy component, and the prohibition of the tacit renewal of those contracts. You have already reported in committee at the end of January on the discussions you had with your competent colleagues with a number of suppliers. You would ask the CREG to regularly update the number of sleeping products during the coming trimester and at the end of the year. The bill quoted was "held on the radar" by you, I quote you literally, but you still had questions about both the "disclosure" aspect and the scope of the intended ban on dormant contracts that are no longer actively offered on the market. The bill was amended by Mr Verduyckt. The opinion of the Council of State is available. Indeed, there are still comments in that opinion. Better accountability is required for the SME target group. There is also continuing concern about the obligation for suppliers to offer the cheapest equivalent product. Some arguments are put forward regarding the interpretation of that equivalent product, where the discretion of the suppliers would still be large. Questions also remain as to the proportionality of the proposed restrictions with the objectives of the legislative proposal. I'm sure you've been able to read that too. How do you respond to the amendments and the opinion of the Council of State? Does the government now take any further steps in the file, or does it allow the bill to follow its parliamentary path? In the latter case, your answer will be very brief. Can you report on the state of play in the possible adaptation of the consumer agreement? Were any steps taken since the end of January?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u14	Mr Ravyts, of course I am still very pleased with Parliament's attention on the issue of dormant energy contracts. It is certainly due, among other things, to the attention of Parliament, for a year, that we can make consumers more active and, at the same time, increase the pressure on the market to make them more transparent. It is an important task, especially in times when the number of consumers who cannot pay their energy bills continues to increase, while consumers can save a lot by changing suppliers. We have indeed received the opinion of the Council of State on the proposal containing Mr Verduyckt's amendments. It's a very thorough advice. It goes back to the well-known Federutility judgment, which is actually the framework for everything related to price regulation in the energy market. This does not alter the fact that we can and must examine how best to regulate the practice of dormant contracts. We will, of course, have to take into account the opinions of the Council of State and Parliament. So we're gonna keep working on the subject. The other ministers, Mr Dermagne and Mrs De Bleeker, and I myself received the suppliers in December 2020 and then they themselves came up with a plan of action. We are currently awaiting the response of the Economic Inspectorate regarding Mega's activities. Meanwhile, the regulator has told me that Mega is also taking steps that seem to be going in the right direction. In any case, it is a good thing that we work together with the suppliers on that thought trail and together with them see how we can phase out the dormant contracts. As far as the consumer agreement is concerned, I will interpret your question a little more broadly than just the dormant contracts. The consumer agreement is being addressed at a very broad level by the relevant ministers. A stakeholder consultation will be organised at the beginning of March 2021, so that we can gather the latest advice from all relevant actors in the market. The consultation we are setting up therefore aims at far more than the mere input of suppliers and goes wider than the consultation that was organised for the previous adjustment in 2017. For example, we will also involve poverty organisations. The consumer agreement is also working on simplifying the invoice, as requested by Parliament's resolution. The intention is to knock off the preparatory work in this area by mid 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. Indeed, the dual-track policy you are pursuing already has an impact on the market. You quoted Mega's story here. That's in the right direction. Apparently, the response of the Economic Inspectorate has not yet arrived. It remains a difficult balance. You rightly cited the ruling on price regulation. It is not for me to solve that problem from the opposition. But we are very constructive about all possible solutions, including the legislative proposal. We'll follow up on the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u16	Mr. Chairman, the services were well inspired to join the two questions I had tabled. I will therefore focus on what I think is most important, among the many questions that you are asked about this, minister. The ENGIE Group, which is responsible for the management of the seven nuclear reactors in Belgium, has recently announced its willingness to stop investing in the Belgian nuclear fleet in the long term, in the light of a decision by the previous governments, but also by the latter, to leave nuclear power in 2025. Minister, what is the government's response to this announcement? How will this decision affect or not, even if I think it will, our energy independence and the necessary security of supply?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u17	Mr President, Madam Minister, I come directly to the questions. Under the government agreement, it is specified that if the monitoring shows that there is an unexpected security of supply problem, the government will take appropriate measures, such as adjusting the legal schedule for a capacity of up to 2 gigawatts. Minister, what are the consequences of this ENGIE announcement on this plan B of the government agreement? Suppose the exit of nuclear power cannot be envisaged in 2025, what solutions do you envisage to ensure security of supply if Plan B no longer exists?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u18	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, my question follows on from the articles that have appeared in the press. I confess that I was a little surprised by the reading of some who saw it as a surprise, while finally there was nothing surprising in this decision. I even admit that I would have been surprised by the opposite. That is to say, I was surprised that a company in Belgian law, in accounting law, could overvalue its assets on the basis of a decision that was not legal, which had not been taken. I do not understand how ENGIE has in the past been able to estimate several billion more of its nuclear assets in Belgium, whereas the 2003 law has always been reconfirmed for most reactors. Madam Minister, this is rather a matter of accounting law, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u19	Colleagues, there are two aspects to your questions: the announcement of ENGIE Electrabel and its communication and the impact on security of supply in Belgium. The government can only acknowledge the will of the private group ENGIE. This decision to reduce nuclear investment is not really a surprise, as it complies with the legal requirements set out in the 2003 law on the progressive release of nuclear energy for industrial production. ENGIE Electrabel has always been an important player in the Belgian energy market and has every advantage to remain so. With Europe, our country has a clear target of 100% renewable energy by 2050. ENGIE participates in the plan and continues to assume its responsibility for security of supply at the same time. As far as security of supply is concerned, you know that we are working hard on the development of CRM, which aims to encourage investments in alternative capacity. We are on the right track, as I have already explained to you in this committee, with regard to the adjustment of the royal decrees to follow, the determination of the volume and the consultation of Parliament, as stipulated in the resolution. As far as I am concerned, this security of supply is not at risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers. There are elements on which I could answer, too. I remain concerned about security of supply and the strategies implemented to ensure it in the future. I'll come back to you shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u21	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, Plan A, which provides for the release of nuclear power in 2025, is still relevant with its implications, whether it is the implementation of CRM, a constant monitoring of security of supply or continuous price control. With ENGIE's decision, Plan B no longer exists. Therefore, the possible withdrawal solution no longer exists. Therefore, I do not want to be pessimistic, but perhaps it would be interesting to develop a new scenario in case Plan A could not be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answer, which reassures me fully, since it is simply an update of a group's accounts in relation to the legislation that has been in force for almost 18 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u23	Mr Ben Achour, you had tabled a question on this subject, but you are coming a little late. The answer has already been provided by the minister, but I give you the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u24	Mr President, thank you and I apologize. I will refer to the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u25	Madam Minister, the social tariff for electricity and natural gas is granted to persons belonging to certain categories of right holders. For example, persons with an income replacement, i.e. persons with disabilities, are entitled to the social rate. In order to benefit from the social rate, the person must either be a residential final customer or be donated to the final customer. Where a person with a disability is entitled to the social rate and is dominated with the final customer, that social rate is awarded, but this does not appear to be the case with a care home. Care homes have existed in Flanders for a number of years. A care home is a smaller residential space within an existing house, where up to two persons in need, for example a disabled person, can live. Creating a registered care home ensures that the residents form a separate family. So there are two families dominated at the same address. Residents of a care home, who are normally entitled to the social rate, would not get that if the energy contract was concluded in the name of a person dominated in the main house. Suppose a disabled son stayed somewhere else for a while and then enjoyed the social rate, but became more needy and a care home linked to his own home was built for him, then suddenly he couldn't enjoy that social rate because it was linked to the main house. For the social tariff for water, compensation is given in Flanders in this situation. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Is it true that people living in a care home miss the social rate? This does not seem fair to me and seems to me absolutely something we must correct. What are the possibilities of granting the social tariff for gas and electricity in the case of care homes? After all, I believe that our legislation provides for this. What initiative will you take for this? For the social rate for water, compensation is provided for in Flanders. Is it a federal authority or a regional authority to ensure that people in a care home receive the social rate for water rather than just compensation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u26	Mrs Lanjri, in order to put the problem on the radar, as you have explained in your question, the social rate is indeed applied when someone is a residential final customer. So there is a problem for people who have signed an energy contract in the name of a person who is dominated in the main house. In that case, the resident of a care home does not automatically benefit from the social rate. There are a number of ways to fix that. I'll list them to you, but I'll tell you right away that I'll place a disclaimer, that we'll do something about it. What is possible today is that the name on the energy contract is changed and replaced by the name of the rightholder on the social tariff. The rightholder of the social tariff can also inform the FPS Economy about the fact that he was registered in the National Register under the heading "care residences'. The presence of a care home is included in the National Register with a special code. By means of a manual link, the social rate can automatically be applied to the rightholder on the social tariff in the energy contract. The third possibility is that the social tariff for gas and electricity can be applied on the basis of a specific paper certificate. Mrs Lanjri, you may notice that this is not a way of working. I agree. The automatic allocation of rights is very important. That's what I'll do. I will make sure that it is possible to link the data of the caregivers, which are included in the National Register today, to the trimesterial processing. My administration handles the right holders for the social rate in a trimestral manner. Such data shall be charged towards the energy suppliers so that the rate can be applied automatically. So I will check whether we can take the data from the Crossroads Bank of Social Security for the caregivers, so that we can also automatically apply the social tariff for electricity and natural gas for people living in care homes. Unfortunately, I cannot give you any timing for that at the moment. In the meantime, it is my experience that these are complex questions that require some processing. I am absolutely your partner in ensuring that people who are entitled to the social rate can get that rate as much as possible automatically, so that there is no under-utilisation of the rights to which people are entitled. For your question on water policy, I must point out that it is indeed a matter of regional competence. So I cannot take any initiative in this matter. It's up to the Regions to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u27	Madam Secretary, it is to your credit that you have the courage to acknowledge that there is a problem. I am sure you will find an ally in my efforts to ensure that rights are granted automatically. I've been arguing for that for a long time. I have already been able to achieve a number of things in this area, but it is still a problem. There are people who should be entitled to the social rate, but may not be able to live completely separately. If they live completely separately, they get the social rate, but if they need more help because they can't live alone and depend on someone else, they miss the social rate, unless they find all kinds of other ways to get there anyway. That doesn't make any sense. This is precisely the weakest group that is very difficult to claim its rights. That is why I believe that we absolutely need to do something different, so that we can do it automatically. You say you don't know exactly when it will come into effect. In a few months' time, I will ask you again about a state of affairs. Hopefully we'll be able to fix this soon. It really needs to be corrected, for the benefit of this weakest target group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u28	Mr President, Minister, the law of 28 April 2019 approving the cooperation agreement of 25 July 2018 finally gave the green light to the fund for the soil cleaning of gas oil tanks for heating purposes of the Vzw Promaz. I questioned you about this at the beginning of December, because it is still not operational. You were annoyed by that. We know the problem, the sector wants to commit itself to coordinating the fund, but it sets conditions. They obviously relate to the financial feasibility of the fund. They put forward a contribution for Promaz in the maximum price of gas oil for heating and diesel gas oil from approval. In any event, the notification period can only start with recognition. However, no recognition file had yet been formally submitted in December. You said at that time that you had planned a meeting with Brafco to explicitly press for the further realisation of this project. Madam Secretary, what arrangements did you make during that announced consultation? What further steps have you taken in this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u29	Mr Ravyts, we have had further discussions on this dossier. Let me sum up what we've done in the meantime. Following a contact of one of my policy staff with the Belgian Petroleum Federation, it sent us a state of affairs on 22 January. Additional information on the figures was requested on 2 February and was also obtained. On 12 February, consultations were held with the Belgian Petroleum Federation and Informazout, the file manager of the sector. The sector has notified four objections to the Interregional Soil Reunification Commission. Let me sum them up. The maximum contribution for the fund is €10 per 1,000 litres of heating gas oil and diesel gas oil. The contribution shall be included in the maximum price once recognition of the fund has been obtained. The collection will be stopped as soon as 512 million euros of contributions have been collected. No general prohibition on the sale or placing of boilers in the three regions shall be introduced, at least for the duration necessary for the financial viability of the fund. There was therefore a contact with the Interregional Soil Remodeling Commission (IBC) on 26 January to further advance the dossier, and we can agree on the first three points. In doing so, I have exhausted my federal competence, because the fourth objection is a competence of the regions. I hope that there will soon be a comparison on this last point, so that recognition can be started.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u30	Madam Minister, the financial feasibility is indeed an important aspect. The pass-through was to be expected, but it is now awaiting how the Flemish and Walloon authorities will react to the ban. We'll see. I will continue to follow up the dossier with my Flemish colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u31	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Treaty on the Energy Charter is on the rise, as a new round of negotiations began last week. Signed in 1994, this text was intended to guarantee the supply of nuclear and fossil energy to Europe in a post-Cold War context. Twenty-seven years later, as a result of the investor-state arbitration clause it contains, it is primarily a tool at the service of the energy sector, enabling it to attack national legislation which, for example, would like to disengage from nuclear or coal. A new example was given in early February. The German energy company RWE confirmed that it had filed an arbitration complaint against the Dutch government following its decision to leave coal by 2030. This case, in addition to many others that we have already mentioned on several occasions in this committee, illustrates how this treaty must be modernised, otherwise it will remain incompatible with the ambitions of the European Green Deal and the Paris Agreement. At the beginning of February, France also called on the European Union to prepare for a possible exit from the Treaty if the revision process were to fail, on the basis of the fact that after two years of preparatory discussions between 2017 and 2019 and three formal rounds of negotiations in 2020, the modernisation of the text was not on track. Spain immediately followed him a few days later, carrying about the same message. Minister, how is Belgium approaching this new negotiating session? Does our country intend to set a deadline for the success of these discussions? How do you react to French and Spanish expressions? Are you considering a similar approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u32	Mr President, Madam Minister, I refer to the written text of my question. For the rest, I would add that it is indeed important to be able to be consistent and consistent in the international agreements that we sign as a State but also as a European Union. I believe that we cannot, on the one hand, have climate ambitions for the Green Deal, for the Paris Agreement and, on the other, for fossil fuels in a treaty such as the Energy Charter Treaty. In the modernization of this treaty, I really call for respect for the climate ambitions that we have set ourselves through the Paris Agreement and also the Green Climate Pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u33	Madam Minister, today, 2 March, the fourth round of negotiations on the modernisation process of the Energy Charter Treaty begins. We have already asked questions about this on a regular basis, including your predecessor. The definition of economic activity in the energy sector is an important remaining issue that has not yet been discussed in the first, second and third rounds of negotiations. The discussion was initially planned during the first round, but had still not been discussed at the end of October. The reason is simple: there was no proposal on the table because of the European Commission, which is necessary for the EU to take a position as a basis for the discussions. The key issue here is that the definition needs to be adapted to the current international energy and climate context. There was an internal consultation with the services of the European Commission, which, of course, seek consensus before a proposal on this matter is submitted to the EU Member States. At technical level, Belgium has repeatedly called for the matter to be discussed as soon as possible, as a definition is at the heart of the modernisation talks. Madam Minister, it is not surprising, you thought it was important that the definition was changed in any case in line with the current context of the green transition. Belgium would argue for the inclusion of the protection of renewable energy sources. Is there already a text proposal from the European Commission? Will it be addressed in the fourth round of negotiations on the modernisation process? If so, can you explain this further? Has there been any intra-Belgian consultations on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, Belgium has contributed to the European Commission's proposal for a text which was submitted to the Energy Charter Secretariat as a starting point for discussions on the definition of economic activity in the energy sectors. Belgium will participate in the round of negotiations but the European Commission will speak with one voice for the Member States of the European Union. If Belgium were to intervene separately, it would seek explicit support for the proposal by the European Commission. The most important red line for Belgium in this respect is the phasing out of fossil fuels within the scope of the Energy Charter Treaty with the aim of aligning it with the Paris Agreement. For the time being, Belgium has not made an explicit statement on the issue of setting a deadline. There is therefore no formal position on this subject. However, the European Commission has always been asked, during the European Union consultations, to provide for a deadline for the achievement of results. Belgium is pressing for a balance sheet in autumn 2021 with a view to possible final results for 2022. With regard to the French and Spanish requests, if you are talking about the threat of these countries facing a possible withdrawal from the Charter, I can tell you that Belgium has not yet officially given its opinion on this issue. Belgium continues to support the modernisation process. It does not have a concrete withdrawal plan at the moment and wishes to give a fair chance to the modernisation process, although it is important that progress is made on climate ambition. When this issue is discussed further at European Union level, the Belgian position will be discussed with all the colleagues concerned. For Mr Cogolati's questions on the state of play of the negotiations, the next round of negotiations will take place this week, from 2 to 5 March. At the end of last year, after the third round of negotiations, a new timetable was set. Five rounds of negotiations are planned this year: early March, early June, early July, late September and early November. A public summary of the results of the third round of negotiations, which took place in early November 2020, is available on the Charter website. The next round, which will take place this week, focuses on the discussion of definitions. This concerns the definition of the economic activity of the energy sector and the results, the concrete progress of the last round. In the last round, Belgium's position on the previous rounds, as well as for the next round, is reflected in the European Union proposal for which the European Commission is in charge of a negotiated mandate. For example, a proposal for a text to change the definition of economic activity with regard to the energy sectors is submitted to the Energy Charter Secretariat as a starting point for the fourth round of negotiations. For reasons of confidentiality, because of the risk of leaks before the negotiations, I cannot give you details of the proposal itself, but I can say that in its proposal, the European Union focuses on phasing out investment aid for fossil fuels and on the inclusion of more renewable energy technologies, such as hydrogen. As regards the ban on the protection of investments in fossil fuels, the current proposal for a European Commission text contains major changes from the previous proposal. In addition to the proposal to include the protection of renewable energy sources in the definition of economic activity in the energy sector, a gradual abolition of the protection of investments in fossil fuels is also provided for in the proposal of the European Union text. Emission thresholds for power plants have also been proposed. The definitions of low-carbon hydrogen and renewable hydrogen of the EU hydrogen strategy have been included in the proposed text. With regard to the progress of negotiations on a possible withdrawal from the Treaty if negotiations do not progress quickly enough, Belgium still supports the modernisation process and does not have a concrete withdrawal plan at the moment. As I have already said, she wants to give the modernization process a fair chance at the moment. Mr Ravyts, as I have replied to the French-speaking colleagues, there is a proposal from the European Commission to amend the definition of economic activity. For confidentiality reasons, I cannot go into this in more detail, but I can point out that the proposal focuses on phasing out investment aid to fossil fuels and also on the inclusion of more renewable energy technologies such as hydrogen. Belgium contributed to the European Commission's text proposal through the Technical Council Working Group on Energy, where the issue was discussed among the 27 EU Member States. A preparatory DGE consultation was organised for this purpose on 9 February.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers. As a reply, my comment will be structured into four parts - three of which are drawn from an investigation conducted by a group of journalists. Firstly, the share of the fossil energy sector in the European Union, the United Kingdom and Switzerland, and protected by the Energy Charter Treaty, is equivalent to EUR 344 billion - double the total annual budget of the European Union, for about EUR 660 per capita. So it's colossal! Secondly, three quarters of the protected fossil energy infrastructure covers oil and gas fields, amounting to EUR 126 billion, and pipelines, amounting to EUR 148 billion. Thirdly, although the Energy Charter Treaty is supposed to protect investments in unstable regions, in 74% of cases European companies have been prosecuted against Member States of the Union. We know that leaving the treaty is not easy. Similarly, we know Japan's position in this regard. In December 2019, the treaty signatories agreed on a temporary break in the invitations to accede to the treaty, citing discussions on its modernization as a pretext. However, Budget 2021 added more than half a million euros to the caisses for consolidation purposes. In addition, three African countries are in the process of ratifying the treaty. I understand that Belgium has not yet drawn up a plan B and that the idea is to give all its chances of success to the current process. However, it will soon be necessary, if not necessary, to anticipate and prepare for an alternative if the current process fails. In other words, we will have to start thinking about an exit from the treaty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u36	Mr President, Madam Minister, the content of my question shows an identical position. We must be consistent with our climate commitments. It is therefore necessary to be able to modernise the energy charter in this direction and to leave it, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u37	We must not only remain coherent, but also realistic. I can see that there is a certain realism in you, Madam Secretary. There is now a text proposal from the European Commission, which apparently has a mandate to negotiate on behalf of the Member States. I understand that you cannot release everything from the text; however, it seems that attention is being paid to phasing out investment aid for fossil fuels. Mr Ben Accour has very specifically outlined the enormous importance and the real value of this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u38	Mr President, when I speak of "loading", I refer to vehicle charging terminals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u39	Mr President, Mr Bombled, with regard to your first question on the investment plan, you are asking me if a study will be carried out. Elia's investment plan takes into account the development of chargers for electric vehicles. Within the framework of the Facility for Recovery and Resilience (RRF), I also propose a reform with Elia, to investigate new management services according to the availability of production-consumption means and the availability of the electricity network. This exercise must be carried out together with the Regions, but I have the ambition to facilitate this exchange and to consider the needs from the point of view of data exchange, a market platform, and transparent communication with consumers, and so on. As regards your second question concerning the recovery plan and charging stations, I would like to inform you that the project to which you refer is a tax product of my colleague Mr. Van Peteghem, Minister of Finance. Of course, there is coordination and cooperation between our two firms. I am also asking for smart chargers, and even with the future ambition of two-way chargers. I am therefore working to increase renewable production, for example via the offshore, in order to provide green electricity in electric vehicles. I hope – but I am sure – that regional governments will also take the necessary steps to develop everything they can in terms of green electricity. For the other discussions on this subject, and in particular on the draft in the recovery plan, I refer to Mr. Van Peteghem. Let me turn to your third question, on consultation with the Regions. It is true that most of the competences are regional. As part of the recovery plan, there are obviously regional components, but there are also federal projects. We seek complementarity between projects. Finally, the federal government's agreement concerns company cars linked to wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u40	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer, although I believe that the sale of zero-emission vehicles must go hand in hand with the construction of the infrastructure for their charging. This infrastructure must be reflected in the form of a flexible power grid to provide all electric vehicles. Similarly, it is important that this network integrates rural areas because there should not be an electrical divide that would not allow citizens living in rural areas to benefit from electric charging stations near their homes. Finally, I recently read in an article that in France, four 150 kW fast charging stations for electric cars will be installed in all motorway service stations before 2023. These terminals allow up to 80% load in just 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u41	Mr President, Minister, when presenting its annual results, ENGIE confirmed that it would adhere to the roadmap for the repayment of loans already granted from SYNATOM. This would involve payments of around EUR 100 million per month. In reply to a written question on this subject, the then Minister also referred to funds put at the disposal of the other operator, EDF Luminus. At the same time, of course, the question is what direction the government is currently thinking for the revision of the SYNATOM Act. After all, several options have been put forward in the past. Both the previous Minister has put forward proposals on this, which have been circulating in the hemisphere at some point, and your group, but of course there are also the slopes that you yourself put forward in the context of your policy statement on the externalisation of SYNATOM. I have the following questions. Is ENGIE's payment plan on schedule? What about the other nuclear operator? What percentages of the amount lent are thus obtained in the context of this payment? In other words, what percentage will stand in relation to the funds in the fund for the following years until 2025? What key points do you wish to put forward in the context of the adaptation of the SYNATOM Act? If it is intended to be effective, as announced in the press, in order to have the legislative amendment ready this summer, does it not seem appropriate to propose a number of guidelines for this now? Finally, as De Tijd reported, there were indeed conversations between the government and ENGIE through top man Clamadieu, or isn't that right? Are you aware of this conversation and what can you tell us about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u42	Mr Wollants has just said it, Madam Minister: last weekend there was a very interesting article in De Tijd entitled 'The fight behind the nuclear trip'. It was described in which ENGIE Electrabel is really awake and that is not the core exit itself, but the gigantic invoice for the management and disposal of the high-level radioactive waste. It is an open secret that ENGIE tries to transfer that invoice to the Belgian State. The risk that it will ultimately be the taxpayers who will have to pay this billion bill is high. Look at Germany: that is where the nuclear lobby was able to ensure that the German State will be responsible for the storage and disposal of nuclear waste on payment of a ransom. The article in De Tijd also describes how ex-premier Charles Michel has hitherto prevented ENGIE Electrabel from paying for this billion dollar bill. Until the highest Belgian and European circles there was lobbying. It is even insinuated that this is one of the reasons why Mr Michel has become European President. The lobby goes on undisturbed. Last year, the President of ENGIE Electrabel, Jean-Pierre Clamadieu, wrote to the European Commissioner for the Internal Market, in which he called the Belgian nuclear decommissioning plans a disruption of the internal market. So the game is played hard, Madam Secretary. You have always defended that the polluter should pay and that ENGIE Electrabel should be responsible for the full cost of high radioactive waste. The coalition agreement and your policy statement also state that the legal framework of nuclear facilities will be strengthened. A few weeks ago, however, Mr Clamadieu was still with Prime Minister De Croo. So it's clear that ENGIE Electrabel is trying to get past you and lobby over your head, directly at Prime Minister De Croo. What is your reaction to the article in De Tijd? I assume you've read that, too. Has this billion bill and the responsibility of ENGIE Electrabel been discussed within the government? More specifically, has this been discussed between you and Prime Minister De Croo?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u43	Mr President, Mr Warmoes, I do read De Tijd, I have a subscription to it. If you will allow me to make a comment: sometimes the company pages are more interesting than the political pages. I can be checked here in Parliament about the policy I am pursuing, but it is difficult for me to be asked to comment on articles that appear, not only in De Tijd, but also in other newspapers. However, the questions are particularly relevant. Mr Wollants, the law of 11 April 2003 allows SYNATOM to lend the equivalent of nuclear facilities to nuclear operators up to 75% of the total amount at the interest rate applicable to industrial loans. You referred to this in the explanatory statement to your question. I'll give you some figures first. By 31 December 2020, the fees of the nuclear commission company amounted to EUR 7.7 billion for spent nuclear fuels and EUR 6 billion for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants. Also on 31 December 2020, the core commission company granted the following loans to the core operator Electrabel. Loans on the basis of provisions for the management of spent nuclear fuels: EUR 4.6 billion, or 60% of the provisions. Loans on the basis of facilities for decommissioning nuclear power plants: EUR 4.3 billion, or 71.5 % of facilities. No loans were granted to EDF. By the end of 2019, Electrabel committed itself, following a discussion with the Nuclear Equipment Commission, to repay to the Nuclear Commission by 2025 the full loan covering the equivalent of the provisions for the management of spent nuclear fuels. This was laid down in the Commission's three-yearly opinion of 12 December 2019, which binds the fees. According to the pay-off plan, the core operator repaid the amount of EUR 108 million on 31 December 2020. I have here in my reply a table, which I will give you in writing, which shows that EUR 108 million is involved for the year 2020. They've been repaid. For 2021, EUR 870 million, EUR 894 million for 2022, EUR 889 million for 2023, EUR 931 million for 2024 and EUR 1 billion for 2025. This reimbursement schedule will continue. So we are indeed on schedule. In any case, it is my intention to anchor these refunds in the first amendments to the 2003 Act. As far as your joint questions on the legal framework are concerned, the chalk lines you are asking for are to ensure that the commissions are adequate, and are also available. A number of initiatives need to be taken to this end. To this end, the law must also be adapted. The law dates back to 2003, i.e. before the 2008 banking crisis. So we can all agree that the current prudential supervision in the law no longer fits in with today's context. I am aware that I am giving you a vague answer on this point. As provided for in the coalition agreement, we are asking for an opinion from the Commission on nuclear facilities. This opinion has been requested and is expected to start work. As soon as I have the necessary documents and input, I will get to work on them quickly. That is a priority for this legislature. Hopefully I can make enough progress by this summer. SYNATOM has already taken steps of its own. The Statutes of SYNATOM will be amended in the near future to allow the accession of at least two independent directors. There will also be an audit committee and an investment committee. That seems logical to me, given the company we're talking about here. That is not, however, a preliminaries. That is not the end of the matter either. We will certainly come up with a proposal to amend an appropriate regulatory framework to ensure that the fees are adequate and available.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u44	Madam Minister, it is important to clarify this. I have already argued in the previous legislature that this amount should be systematically reduced as nuclear power stations close down. In my story a number of nuclear power plants remained open, but some would also close. That needs to be looked at in that respect. The whole system of interest rates and the like that was set up at the time has, of course, become somewhat utopian in the current situation. Market interest rates today are of a very different order from what was laid down in the law at the time. At that time there was still room to lend certain things to a certain interest rate that actually functionally no longer exists between the actualization rate and the market rate. I look forward to seeing how that goes. As far as EDF is concerned, I believe that the previous reply mentioned loans to EDF, but I admit that that answer dates back to 2016. It is therefore possible that steps have been taken. In that context, there were also loans to ORES, if I am not mistaken, and at some point even to Elijah. Anyway, that's a remark in the margin. I am, of course, looking forward to what will happen now in practice and when you will come forward with a proposal. As far as independent directors are concerned, that is a good thing in itself. I think it is very important that we know which independent drivers are involved. We have recently seen an independent driver hoisted in the saddle, especially Pieter De Crem at Elia's. The question is whether you mean such an independent driver. I hope we're looking for another profile here. It is clear that you do not want to respond to the possible discussion with Mr De Croo and Mr Clamadieu. I certainly don't know if you were aware of it or not. I suppose you're actually telling me to ask Mr De Croo himself. I will.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u45	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I see that you have good intentions to ensure that the commissions will be sufficient and available in order to be able to carry out this entirely at the expense of the current operator. I do not doubt your sincerity, and I also know that this dossier is close to your heart. As Mr Wollants said, you did not go into lobbying with, among other things, the Prime Minister, who is being discussed in detail in De Tijd. At least we'll follow up on that file ourselves. We are indeed going to insist that the costs are not recovered from the taxpayer. We will therefore not allow internal and external pressure to be exerted. In any case, you've been warned. You are in the government and you have read Time as well, you said. Pretending that nothing is going on and that your agenda is entirely up to you is not entirely the right thing to do in reality. Everyone knows that. However, we have taken note of your timetable and your intentions to adjust the regulatory framework so that the commissions are adequate and available, as you said.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u46	Mr President, Minister, following the session organised by EnergyVille on offshore winds, in which you partly contributed to the introduction, some speakers mentioned the possibility of increasing the target of 4 to 4.5 gigawatt offshore winds in the North Sea to 6 gigawatts. This can only be done if a number of very specific conditions are met and a very specific planning is followed. Especially the combination with other functions requires a great deal of coordination. Today it is not clear to me whether a further scaling-up is feasible, nor whether there is a support for this among the various users of that part of the North Sea, and on which the marine spatial plan also deals. Madam Secretary, was the scaling up to 6 gigawatt discussed within the government? Is an exercise supposed to take place in this area, or is that not the case? Do you wish to take initiatives to carry out a feasibility study in this area, or do you think that the objective of about 4 gigawatt is the maximum achievable in practice, which has been the government's position in the past? Have you had contact with your colleague, the North Sea Minister, Mr Van Quickenborne, or is he possibly entirely responsible for this question? I have already put this question to his attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u47	Mr President, Mr Wollants, the coalition agreement clearly states that we will see whether additional capacity can be achieved in the Belgian North Sea, both in its own waters and outside its territorial waters, in cooperation with other countries located on the North Sea. We have discussed this last aspect before in this committee, including the project with Denmark. In addition, we also focus on innovative projects, including on renewable energy. In this context, we have already discussed the plans for the energy island in the sea, including at the beginning of this meeting. Specifically regarding your question on the possibilities for additional capacity, I can tell you that there are discussions about this. I am indeed in constant contact with my colleague, the North Sea Minister. We share powers when it comes to offshore winds and we have the ambition to exercise our powers jointly. When it comes to wind at sea, the North Sea could become our largest power plant, for the whole of Europe, not just in our own part. That is an ambition that we both share, and that also means that from the outset we honour good cooperation and exercise our powers together. I do not want to wait until the second zone is completed to start with the sequel. They're long-term trajectories. You yourself said that there are important preconditions. It can't be decided with a fingernip. Many conditions need to be considered. This also means that we want to start discussions, not only on the possible further scaling-up in Belgian waters, but also on further enlargements outside our territorial waters, in the context of our cooperation within the NSEC.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u48	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. It is, of course, difficult to ask questions at the same time to you and your colleague. I'm forced to question you separately. We will see where it comes from, but for us, of course, it is important to know what the framework conditions will be and how they can be fulfilled. In any case, we have the ambition to achieve the additional zone in the North Sea without subsidies. In the context of the CRM resolution, this is also necessary, otherwise you will have another problem. Only the question will be whether this can be done for the next zone. That is why we are asking questions about this. It may well be that the planning for the second zone should take account of the detour. If the second zone is installed without taking that into account, you may also hypothesize the sequel. That is why it is a puzzle for me and perhaps decisions should be made today to keep these possibilities open or not. I am already asking questions about this, so early in the process, because I believe that attention should be paid to this if we do not want to end up in a situation where the third zone is becoming much more expensive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u49	Madam Minister, the construction of gas-fired power plants that must confirm the release of nuclear power is a source of dismay - also among the movements and parties inclined to that exit, which are ideologically following your position. The procedures for the authorisation of new gas-fired power plants in Flanders, which are crucial for the release of nuclear power, are already in full swing. In Dilsen-Stokkem and Wondergem, the public inquiry has been completed; a verdict of the permanent delegation is expected in April-May, since this position was taken by the communal council. In Vilvorde – of which you are close, unless I am mistaken – a public inquiry into the environmental permit is still under way. Time is running out because by 2025, power plants must be able to supply their first kilowatt hours. Gas-fired power stations already had to meet stringent emission standards, which are even more stringent than the standard requires. The recent ruling of the Raad voor Vergunningsbetwistingen - which I have translated as "Complaints Council", but without knowing whether that was the exact name in French - in the matter of permits added that they must also demonstrate that they would not further aggravate the nitrogen problem in Flanders. That's something I didn't know about. The "Tegengas" and "Gents MilieuFront" movements object to the construction of a gas power plant in Wondergem and Dilsen-Stokkem. Indeed, the communal council gave a negative opinion after the lodging of 1,225 objections from the citizens. Given the small size of the municipality, this figure is considerable. Madam Minister, have you been concerned about this nitrogen retention problem in Flanders (in connection with the judgment of this body in Flanders) which, according to your regional counterpart, will affect the granting of permits for the construction of gas-fired power plants? It would indeed like this concern to be included in the criteria for authorisation. Are you confident that gas-fired power plant projects will pass the environmental emission and impact test as well as the nitrogen level test? Have you cared about the great opposition of the various associations and potential residents of these future facilities? Finally, do you seriously believe in the construction of gas-fired power plants as an integral solution to nuclear output? To conclude, this is a more personal question!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u50	Mr President, I am glad that it is progressing so well today. I haven't even had time to read Time yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u51	We surprised you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u52	Mr President, things are moving very quickly. Madam Minister, it is sometimes said that when it drips in Paris, we in Brussels notice the consequences. However, here in the committee we often look the other way, namely towards the Netherlands. In the Netherlands there has already been a very fierce debate on nitrogen. It was therefore to be expected that the debate would also come our way. This can indeed have consequences. I hear Mrs Marghem talking about the gas plants that need to be built to cope with the nuclear exit. However, that is not entirely true. We need gas power stations anyway. We must therefore be concerned about this, especially since the ruling of the judge, as I interpret it, looks at the impact on the environment rather than at the rules we have agreed on among ourselves. Madam Secretary, how do you see the impact of the ruling on what awaits us and on what we should do? Is there any information on it? Where is a gas plant in nitrogen emissions? I honestly admit I don't know much about that. What's known about that? I read, for example, that gas plants near nature reserves may be problematic. Mrs Marghem also referred to the planned project in Dilsen-Stokkem, which is located near the national park Hoge Kempen. In this sense, there is an expected impact on such projects and it will be very difficult for such projects. Finally, I note that the Flemish Minister is very initiative-driven. Madam Secretary, will you consult with her? It has already carried out legal analyses. So it might be useful to share the information with each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u53	Mr Verduyckt, it was De Tijd of the weekend and not today. Mr. Wollants, we've already made a lot of commercials for De Tijd.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u54	Mr President, that is correct. Madam Minister, the impact of nitrogen on the capacity mechanism dossier was discussed this week following the judgment of the Council for Authorisations in the context of the Kortessem chicken stand. The energy sector today makes a limited contribution to the whole nitrogen picture. Such a large gas plant could emit some 2,250 tonnes of NOx per year. The current figures for the energy sector show that the whole sector today accounts for 13 000 tonnes. Given the ratio, these emissions are certainly relevant, especially when those gas plants are close to nature reserves, where the possibility of deposition is a difficult issue. The question is how this should continue. If this new additional research is to be carried out in order to demonstrate that the gas plants do not increase the nitrogen problem, then the question is what effect this could have. You didn't want to respond to that in the press. I hope you'll be happy to do that here. How do you view the Flemish nitrogen arrest? What impact can this have on the deadlines for the realisation of any natural gas plants? Can this also have an impact on the missing money for such power stations and therefore also on the bidding behaviour and even on the global price limit in that case?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u55	Madam Secretary, in a recent judgment of the Council for Authorisations, the Board destroyed a licence for a chicken stand in Kortessem, based on nitrogen arguments. In 80% of the Flemish Natura 2000 sites, there is an excessive nitrogen concentration affecting biodiversity. In doing so, Flanders is sinning against the European Habitats Directive, which obliges us to preserve the fragile nature. According to the judgment, the current nitrogen regime of the Flemish government, which contains all kinds of accounting loopholes, would be contrary to European rules. According to several environmental law experts, this judgment may have far-reaching consequences. The Dutch environmental movement successfully fought for a similar arrangement in the Netherlands, which resulted in several projects being stopped and even the maximum speed on the autostrades was reduced to 100 km/h, in order to create new "polluting space." In the Netherlands, new projects can only be carried out if the nitrogen pressure in the affected areas is reduced. The N-VA didn't wait a second to spin yarn out of this judgment. Instead of first looking deep into its own bosom, Flemish Minister for Energy, Zuhal Demir, sent a message warning that all new gas plants, which will be built as part of the CRM, will have to comply with this. Of course, all new projects must comply with this requirement. It is high time that the problem of nitrogen was taken seriously. That agriculture, traffic and industry in particular are responsible for the problem of nitrogen, Minister Demir does not say a word about this. I worked at the VMM myself for 15 years. I think we're on Map 6. The nitrogen problem has been in Flanders for a long time, but intensive livestock farming and traffic is not done much, except for the reduction of De Lijn. That's a personal consideration. Month after month and year after year we could measure far too high nitrogen levels in the Flemish watercourses. However, these are all Flemish powers, but in the reaction of the Flemish government there is not a word about how it intends to proceed in this important dossier. Of course, the fact that the N-VA is playing a dirty game does not prevent gas plants from effectively emitting nitrogen. There are many regional powers, but I still have the following question for you, Madam Secretary. What do you think of Mrs Demir's reaction? How much do you estimate the risk that the permit for a new gas plant will be refused on the basis of this nitrogen argument? What will you do if you come to an end and if at the end of the journey too few gas plants manage to obtain an environmental permit compared to the capacity that should be granted for the CRM?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u56	Mr President, there were two articles on this issue in De Tijd today, a commentary paper and a editorial paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u57	There was also an article by Mr Van de Velden on contacts with ENGIE.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u58	That was this weekend.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u59	We'll call him a good author.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u60	Tomorrow there will be a topical debate in the Flemish Parliament on this issue. This is mainly a matter of regional importance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u61	This committee may be able to make a guided visit to the Flemish Parliament tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u62	Or we could plan a joint committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u63	If we consider that with Denmark, why not with Flanders?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u64	Colleagues, the judgment has a direct impact on regional competences and the associated permits. There is no impact on the federal power plant production permit. It is important to mention, as some of you have done, that the impact of gas plants on the environment on nitrogen, both for precipitation and for emissions, is very limited compared to other sectors, such as agriculture and transport. The judgment on which you are questioning me concerns a chicken den and concerns the precipitation of nitrogen, i.e. ammonia. Ammonia in a gas plant has little standing. So when it comes to nitrogen precipitation, the equation doesn't add up. As some of you have said, a gas plant also emits nitrogen. The current standard applicable to emissions is 35 milligrams per normal cubic metre. It might be appropriate to mention here that nitrogen emissions due to the electricity sector have fallen very sharply in recent years, by 80% to 90%, which certainly does not apply to other sectors. Nevertheless, this means that all new projects to be authorised will have to comply with them. I even hope that they will do better, because it is such an important issue. I am counting on the regional authorities to apply their own regional emission limits when assessing licence applications. These emission limits have been set on the basis of the best available technology and new gas plants should have no difficulty in meeting or even doing better. I support the demand for this monitoring to continue and to work with the sectors to keep NOx emissions as low as possible within the best available technologies. This is only a regional competence and I assume that any additional restrictions will be considered and that the principles will be applied equally to all sectors. There can be no cherrypicking. As regards the questions relating to the CRM, I can only refer to what we discussed at the previous meetings, in particular that we need this capacity to replace them in principle. That is why we need the CRM mechanism, especially if we are to avoid compromising our security of supply that is dear to us. Mr Wollants has just referred, in the context of another question, to the fact that nuclear power stations are always shut down, namely five out of seven, as is well known in the meantime. So at least we need that replacement capacity. However, for the CRM we are looking for the best projects with the best technology at the lowest cost. I assume that these new plants will have no problem in meeting the emission limits set or even doing better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u65	Minister, I agree with you on nitrogen. This is probably a problem far removed from the central problem of CO2 emissions, which falls within the scope of the debate in the Dutch-speaking assembly, which, if I have heard correctly, will take place tomorrow afternoon. I do not, of course, oppose a joint committee or perhaps a small visit to our Flemish friends who sit a little far on our street. Geen problem! The real problem, in my opinion, is that, as part of any large infrastructure installation, you systematically have reactions from the residents and a whole "permitting", a regulation that must be followed and which should in the interests of the supply of the whole country, the whole territory, whether in Flanders or Wallonia, be subject to a certain acceleration to ensure that these infrastructures are built in time and in time in order to produce the first kilowatt hours in 2025. We can be confident. You have to be. It is necessary to be optimistic in life and proactive, but I am not sure, given the marked and marked opposition of the Flemish Minister, that you have the appropriate contacts which allow precisely this acceleration in the granting of authorisations. That is my concern! On the other hand, there's still Maasbracht's file coming back. It's still not very far from Dilsen-Stokkem. I believe that the citizens have stood against it, simply because they would prefer this electricity production to come from Holland, even if it is 15 kilometres from their commune but not at the foot of their building. These are all the problems that will arise in Flanders and Wallonia. That is why I believe it is imperative that you make contact and enter into agreements with your regional counterparts so that the timing of the granting of authorisations is accelerated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u66	Madam Secretary, you have given a reassuring answer. I have not heard anything about the possible installation of gas plants in the vicinity of nature reserves. Mrs Marghem spoke about the site in Dilsen-Stokkem. Maasbracht is only 13 kilometers away. We'll find out later. It is quite clear to me that this is a rather complex discussion. There is, of course, always the risk of certain political actors using complexity to make a political statement without everyone being fully involved in the story. We must avoid this. I will certainly follow that discussion in the Flemish Parliament tomorrow with great interest. With regard to the trip to the Flemish Parliament, in the field of energy files, I do not have the impression that we can learn a lot from colleagues over the last few months and how they have dealt with it. So I'm not sure that's necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u67	Madam Secretary, I think you're confusing a number of things. You are talking here about the emissions of gas plants and that they have to meet certain emission standards. Of course it is. However, the problem of rice is not the individual limit value for these emissions, but, of course, the directive on national emission ceilings. Each individual gas plant can meet, but if all the nitrogen-producing industries, livestock farming and so on are combined, one can still exceed the standard, even if everyone follows the emission limit values neatly. There's the stinger. We need to see what that gives us. I do not believe that it is enough to comply with the emission limit values to say that there will be no emissions above the national emission ceilings without causing problems. I have to say, you've been avoiding the case a little bit. I'd expect that, too. We shall see what comes of it in practice and where it goes. You say that the national emission ceilings only concern ammonia. That is not the case either. There is a separate NOx target, which stipulates that, if I am not mistaken, these emissions should be reduced by 59 % by 2030 compared to 2005. So there are a lot of challenges there. I find it a little bizarre that air pollution is being swept under the mat here too. I would like to put this in perspective with regard to livestock production, traffic and the like, but if we build five, six or seven gas plants tomorrow, each pumping more than 2,000 tonnes of NOx into the air, we will still have a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u68	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. We note your assessment that you do not expect any problems for the environmental permits of any gas plants. But we are not entirely reassured, if I may use that word. We'll see what comes of it. The hypocrisy of the N-VA is, of course, shameless here. The N-VA is now trying to act as a great defender of climate and our air quality. As you said this morning in De Tijd, Flemish Minister Demir once again tried to shift the major problems of our air quality to new gas plants. Let us be clear: we will solve the air quality problems, neither specific to nitrogen nor the deposition of nitrogen, by not building gas plants. The causes lie elsewhere, in agriculture, in traffic, in traffic jams, in industry. All sectors for which the regions themselves are responsible, and therefore Flemish Minister for the Environment, Mrs Demir herself. Of course, it reaps the results of the previous Flemish government's policy in this area, for which nitrogen policy has always been a major taboo. Specifically for CD&V, then, to mention another batch. This does not mean that we are in favour of the construction of new gas plants. As far as we are concerned, the problems of the new gas plants lie elsewhere, especially in the fact that the taxpayer will pay for the subsidies from the CRM and that these gas plants will continue to make us dependent on fossil gas for decades to come. We will, of course, continue to insist on this. We can perfectly perform the core exit without. But I don't think the N-VA has any lessons to teach here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u69	Our committee is very interesting, because energy is in constant transition. The same applies to the energy sector, particularly energy contract providers. Energy sources are also evolving. In addition, the framework is also changing as a result of, inter alia, adjustments to European legislation. Furthermore, the recent debacle around the solar panels has a direct impact on the market for energy contracts. Madam Minister, it seems that the dynamic contract will become more and more widespread. Recently, you yourself made a certain suggestion with the company Decathlon in this regard. Discussions in our committee have also shown that even demand management will seep into consumer contracts. So there will be a lot of news. What's your analysis of that? Is our regulatory framework sufficient today to cope with these developments? If that is the case, the answer will be very short, but it may require changes or rules. Maybe you're already doing an exercise on the subject. Perhaps there is also a need for agreement in the consumer agreement so that it can be verified that everything is still right in the event of new products being offered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u70	You asked me about the development of dynamic contracts. I will take three points into consideration. Dynamic contracts are particularly useful to allow prosumers to better adapt their consumption and injection behaviour to market prices. Thanks to the digital meter, prosumers with a dynamic hourly contract or even a quarter of an hour can benefit from a different price for the electricity they purchase or inject. For example, a prosumer can intelligently organise its own consumption at times when the demand for electricity and thus the market price is high and thus, for example, charging its electric vehicle. He can also inject at a time when demand is high and therefore also the price. Even ordinary customers who are able to intelligently steer their consumption, for example by using devices that can be delayed or by apps that regulate it, can theoretically pay less through dynamic prices, if they can concentrate their consumption during cheaper hours. Of course, prices are always known a day before on the basis of the day-ahead market, so that they are transparent to the consumer, who can adjust their use and injection. The consumer can also call on a supplier or someone else to do that for him. For me, it is very important that we ensure transparency in the market. This is accompanied by knowledge of the contracts offered, and we must not neglect groups. Not only flexibility becomes more important, but also renewable energy, and so we will have to work on increasing knowledge on the market, while, of course, we will also have to watch over the supply of supply contracts. The existing legal framework today allows customers and suppliers to place those products on the market and conclude a contract. Several suppliers prepare such contracts. The consumer agreement itself today is based solely on the supply contract of electricity to the consumer and not on the sale of electricity by the consumer to other consumers or their injection. This will certainly be one of the issues to be addressed in the evaluation, because, of course, it is not only intended to respond to the current market questions but also to make the agreement sufficiently future-proof. We must also ensure the transparency of the market, as I said, and the protection of consumers in the further dynamic development of the supplier market.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u71	You are right that we need to make future proof, Madam Minister, both to allow that invasion on the market and to protect consumers from the growing complexity of the market. There is no doubt that there is still work to be done. Let's work on that together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u72	Mr President, Minister, last week Fluxys presented a first vision for a Belgian hydrogen backbone. That is the backbone for an underground network of pipelines for the transport of hydrogen and CO2. In her first vision, she mapped out the large underground connections, taking into account the energy needs in our country and the important emission zones. In what way were you or your administration involved in achieving this vision? On whose question did Fluxys take this initiative? What are the follow-up steps now that Fluxys has drawn up a first version? Does this vision have an official status? Will you officially establish this vision? What do you think of the vision presented? On what points does your vision of a hydrogen backbone differ from that of Fluxys? In what way do Fluxys, the CREG and your administration continue to work on the realization of a hydrogen backbone? Are there any elements of this vision that will be realised as part of the Belgian relaunch plan? I am asking all these questions, of course, because the hydrogen backbone is essential for the energy transition, as you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u73	Mr President, Mr Warmoes, thank you for this question. The hydrogen backbone is indeed one of the pillars of the federal relance plan, but not only there: the regional plans of the Regions also focus on hydrogen and hydrogen production. Both regional and federal plans are therefore highly complementary. We have already discussed the government's plans for hydrogen backbone. You have here this afternoon a hearing on hydrogen, in which Fluxys will be present and will be able to explain their own communication. The government's plans will focus on the question of where the first lines will be best placed in the first instance. As I said earlier, there are a number of uses of hydrogen that are not subject to discussion, namely the use of feed stock in industry. That is actually bringing hydrogen into our industrial centres, both in Flanders and Wallonia. That's also part of Fluxys' plans. Those elements of Fluxys' vision are certainly something we want to achieve with the government. I would also like to refer to the recent report by Agora, the study agency that guides the German Energy Week. That report has mapped out, along the same lines, which are the no-regret investments in the field of hydrogen. For no-regret investments, Agora also refers to the industrial feed stock and the industrial centres in North-West Europe as backbone components that can be exported first. How do we work together? Now, at the moment, we are working together to develop the legal framework, in which everyone has to assume their role. I have already given initial indications on this when discussing my policy paper, including the re-use of the existing Fluxys network that can be used for hydrogen. I also mention protection, because the specific situation of existing networks is an important aspect of this story. So we are currently working with the various actors to see how the regulatory framework can be put into effect as soon as possible. As you know, the funds for the relay must be committed in 2022 and realised in 2025. The vision of Fluxys is, of course, Fluxys' own. We are also working on our own vision. The input of Fluxys will of course be of great value, as Fluxys is an excellent player, with which we can define our policy together. At the moment, within my administration, a study is being carried out on the future of gas, of which hydrogen is also a component. For this study there is not only input from Fluxys, but also from many other players, including industrial players. Hydrogen, the hydrogen economy and the hydrogen networks are a very important infrastructure. That is why we have opted for infrastructure investments in our relaunch plan. Of course, we must be wary of useless investments such as in the 1950s and 1960s, when bridges were built in places where there never was a highway. It is therefore important to look at the hydrogen market at the same time, so that we realize the pipes, the infrastructure, where the market can develop, for example in the industrial centres. So we want to do an efficient exercise that will contribute to a sustainable and prosperous Belgium by 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u74	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. My question was purely informative. It is good that you are studying a number of things and that you are committed to investing in infrastructure and hydrogen for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u75	Madam Secretary, a few weeks ago, Fluxys announced that it would invest tens of millions in a regassing plant in Zeebrugge. This will almost double the capacity of the Fluxys LNG terminal there. Fluxys is a regulated company, like network operator Elia, under the supervision of the CREG. To what extent and in what way are you, as Minister of Energy or your administration, involved in such investment decisions? Have you or your administration been informed in advance of the investment decision in any way? Who approves such investments or who imposes conditions on such investments? How does this investment in additional fossil fuel infrastructure fit into the government's decision to pursue carbon neutrality as soon as possible? Does the investment fit in the Fluxys hydrogen vision we were talking about earlier? Can the installation be used for carbon neutral gases such as hydrogen, or is it only available for fossil gas?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u76	Fluxys LNG is a regulated company under the supervision of the CREG. All new services being developed must first undergo a process of market consultation before the new services are proposed to the CREG. The CREG ensures that these services are developed on an efficient and non-discriminatory basis. The investment decisions are ultimately taken by the Board of Directors of Fluxys LNG and are included in the investment plan, drawn up in implementation of the Gas Act. On the Board of Directors of Fluxys LNG, two representatives of the government have specific rights. As I mentioned earlier, the investment decisions were ultimately taken by the board of Fluxys LNG. The final investment decision for the project was taken following a positive market survey, a feasibility study and an approval of the regulatory framework. The extension of the regasification plant will contribute to the reduction of the terminal's emissions. In fact, the installations will mainly use the heat of the seawater to regase the LNG, which will significantly reduce the emissions from the terminal. LNG also contributes to reducing emissions from other fossil fuels. Bio-LNG will also be further developed and contribute to the emission reduction. The plants can already accept bio-LNG and synthetic LNG. The contribution of the hydrogen import terminal is still in a study phase. It remains to be seen in which form hydrogen will be imported, such as liquid hydrogen, synthetic methane ammonia or methanol.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u77	Madam Minister, thank you for the explanation. We will have to wait and see what comes of it. There's still a lot in study. We are only concerned about our dependence on fossil fuels. We take note of the fact that biological and other fuels could also be considered; that was not 100% clear. We will therefore continue to follow up the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u78	Mr President, Minister, we have already discussed the Netherlands a few times today, including in the nitrogen debate on the Maas plant. I also found a very interesting study in the Netherlands by the study agency Ecorys, who commissioned a study by the Dutch Association for Renewable Energy on the technical staff we need in the energy conversion. They note that there is a challenge there and that active labour market policies are needed. I assume that this will be no different in our country and that we too will need tens of thousands of additional professionals, who may be employed in the fossil sectors today. It would therefore be a good idea to provide these people with qualitative guidance in these new sectors. Madam Minister, that is an interesting study, on which there is much to be said. How are you looking at this study? Are there any relevant study data on the labour market in Belgium? How do you intend to contribute to the technical retraining of workers from the transition sectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u79	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, this is indeed an interesting study from the Netherlands, in which we have looked at the technical retraining of the energy transition and the workers needed to do so. In Belgium we do not have similar study material. For offshore wind energy, such a study was carried out on behalf of the Belgian Offshore Platform, which shows that by developing these projects around 24,000 jobs were created in Belgium. They take on a pioneering role in Belgium. I am certainly asking you to investigate this for Belgium as well. We must then look at what level and through which institutions this is best done. It is a question of a competence which lies largely with the regions. My focus is, of course, on developing the energy transition and creating jobs. To this end, it is up to the sectors, businesses and regional authorities to register and support retraining. I am certainly a partner to work with the regions to see how we can join forces. After all, we are facing a major transition, a major renovation of our energy system, first in the period up to 2030 and then from 2030 to 2050. If we don't prepare them, we'll obviously get into trouble. It is therefore very important to prepare for this and to look at all aspects. Work and training are certainly aspects of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u80	Madam Minister, I expect not only from you a solution to this challenge, which also offers opportunities. Moreover, the energy transition is not the only problem; it is also a broader question of technical training. I see a number of points of concern in that regard, but I believe that there are options. In addition, we will be faced with the challenge of the nuclear sector. So we're gonna have to put our hands together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u81	Mr President, Minister, you know that I have already pointed out a number of times the importance for the federal government to also make efforts in the field of renewable energy production within its own heritage. The federal government manages about 6.8 million m2 of buildings. It must then be possible to make an effort to strengthen the credibility of the federal energy policy. At sea additional capacity will be difficult in the short term. You just mentioned 2025 or 2026. On the various buildings and areas of the federal government, however, there is a lot to be done. I questioned your colleague Michel about this and he limited his commitment to asking for a budget of EUR 24 million to produce around 6,300 MWh or 7 MWp of solar power. Do you think that's an acceptable objective for the federal government? A second point on which Mr Michel is concerned is that the federal government would produce too much renewable energy and thus become an energy supplier. Are you sure this is a real risk? Do you think that the optimal use of the land and roof surfaces can only be achieved by becoming an energy supplier? Thirdly, it seems that Mr Michel has found out that the federal government has not mapped out which roofs are suitable, what orientation they have and certainly not what their state is. At a time when I read in the Flemish government agreement that other governments will be encouraged to also generate renewable energy on their own real estate, it seems to me that you still need to reactivate your colleagues in the federal government. Will you do this as the Federal Minister of Energy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u82	Mr President, Mr Wollants, I warmly welcome the content of your question. I am definitely a partner for other governments to further develop solar energy, especially when it comes to government buildings. However, I do not share the words of your question. I do not feel at all that I have to respond to colleagues within my own government about one or the other. We are a team that is indeed connected, which has a shared ambition and a shared vision of things and sets out actions to do so. We work well together, we exchange ideas and help each other. That is the way we do policy. That may sound boring and boring, but there are so many exciting things going on that policy may be boring. With regard to federal government buildings, I would like to remind you, because you may well know that not only does the Government of the Buildings have buildings and manage them. An important part of the federal building stock is also managed by Defence, SNCB and Infrabel. The National Energy and Climate Plan (NEKP) not only looks at energy saving, but also aims to make our government buildings energy neutral by 2040. This means that the remaining consumption must be covered by self-generated renewable energy. In concrete terms, Defense is aiming to reduce consumption to 68.3 gigawattuur electricity and to 66.8 gigawattuur for heating by 2040. To make the buildings energy neutral, an investment of EUR 142 million in renewable energy will be needed, which corresponds to the installation of 142 megawatt peak. Those are ambitions that we support. You also asked a question about the federal government's energy production and whether it would not become an energy supplier. The day the federal government produces more electricity than it consumes itself is a day I'm absolutely looking forward to. Until that day, we must focus on cooperation and flexibility in the system, so that energy production can participate in the energy transition. There are also enough players on the market to invest in it, as shown by the National Pact for Strategic Investments. The third aspect of your question seems to me to be an exercise within the framework of the creation of an energy register for federal government buildings. As stipulated in the National Energy and Climate Plan (NEKP), the land register will contribute to achieving the intended neutrality by 2040.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic392x.u83	Mr President, Minister, your answer strengthens my conviction that this has yet to be done within the powers of Mr Michel in the Directorate-General for Buildings. You yourself have indicated between the lines that his argument that the federal government should become an energy supplier does not make any sense and that it is not even a problem if more energy is generated. The risk is very small, even less than the 0.3% we have just mentioned. Finally, if Mr Michel does not know how the roofs are oriented today, he can easily and neatly use a tool made in Flanders with the solar map to determine which roofs are oriented in which direction. Apparently, he doesn't know that. I ask you to respond to him in that regard. You don't like me to say that, but I really think this is necessary. It is really necessary, because there is someone sitting there today who has a lot of potential to learn about energy.
