ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u1	Madam President, Minister, when I tabled my question, there was still no agreement. The trade unions had finally pulled the plug in the talks and negotiations were blocked. So today's topical debate is slightly different from that of the past. The disappointment of some people who complained that wage negotiations went more through the newspapers than through the consultation table was great. Some major trade unions still do not want to accept the agreement. I'd like to get an answer to the following questions. How do you intend to reach a definitive solution, including the preservation of social peace? Will social discontent damage the early recovery of our economy? Are we going to an amendment to the former law? Do we go to net contributions without social contributions? Do you have an insight into the negotiations at sectoral level? What will you do to ensure that the next ipa can be smoother?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u2	Questions Nos 55017133C by Mrs Nadia Moscufo and 55017134C by Mr Raoul Hedebouw are obsolete.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u3	Madam President, Minister, there are a lot of questions about our party's IPA. However, many of these questions date back to March, as we see the Minister here so little. We're all busy, but could the Minister be a little more present here to answer our questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u4	Question No 55017477C by Mr Peter Mertens becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u5	Madam President, I come immediately to my questions. Minister, with regard to the negotiations in the Group of Ten, could you take stock of the situation? What are the reasons why the government's proposal was rejected by the Group of Ten? In addition to indexation of 2.8%, the wage margin is set at 0.4%. However, there is uncertainty about corona premiums in companies that have worked well. Can you confirm the government's benchmarks? Finally, has the government set a new deadline of 9 June? Therefore, if no compromise is reached within the G10 by this date – apparently, it seems difficult for a solution to be reached – what does the government intend to do: decide once and for all or grant an umpteenth deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u6	Do any groups wish to speak? I see Mr. Anseew and Mrs. De Jonge.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u7	Mr President, I have tabled a number of questions on the weekends, but none of them are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u8	Since May 24, 2021 was a public holiday, the deadline was set on the last working day, Friday, May 21, 2021, before 11:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u9	I tabled another question on this subject on Friday after 11 a.m. It's all a little weird. I didn't know that was suddenly moved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u10	It is by thinking about it now that I realize that neither would I have thought of sending it until Friday 11 a.m. However, since Monday was a public holiday, the working day prior to the question-and-answer session had to be taken into account before 11:00 a.m. That is why the questions you would have tabled on Friday after 11:00 am are not noted. Would you like to speak in the debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u11	Madam President, Minister, two weeks ago, an agreement was reached within the federal government on a new negotiating proposal that concerned the social partners. It was agreed that wages in the private sector could increase by 3.2% this year and next year, of which 2.8% indexing and 0.4% margin for additional purchasing power increase. Companies that achieve good economic results during the corona crisis can pay their employees an additional premium of up to EUR 500 net, but since you came up with the proposal there has been a lot of reaction from different angles, not least from the large trade unions. Meanwhile, it is already known that the largest trade unions of the ACV and the ABBV have submitted a strike announcement out of discontent with your agreements. This notice expires on 10 June. I predicted two weeks ago that the pressure on these companies and sectors is increasing because of the fact that this government has been refusing to shoulder its responsibilities for months. The trade unions, like you, I suspect, want the 1996 law on the shovel and therefore do not agree with the agreement reached within the government. How will you deal with these strike commitments? Do you fully adhere to the 1996 law as a government which states that wage costs do not increase more than in neighbouring countries? Do you stick to the agreement reached by the government at the beginning of May and how will you convince the social partners to comply with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u12	Madam President, Minister, a great deal has already been said about the wage standard and I am pleased that the government has therefore confirmed that it will continue to respect the 1996 wage standard law and allow companies that have achieved good results to offer their staff a consumer cheque of EUR 500. It is up to the social partners to determine how this will be implemented. However, I would like to stress once again that the report prepared by the Central Council for Industry in the framework of the 1996 Competitiveness Act is very clear. There is no more than 0.4% net wage growth on top of the index, so as not to lose any additional ground compared to our neighbouring countries. We can't stress that enough. In the post-corona crisis period, we will have to brace ourselves so as not to increase the economic damage that is already there, and is still threatening to increase. Does the government maintain its position to respect the 1996 law on wage standards? What are the agreements with the social partners on the timetable of these negotiations? Is the negotiating framework established by the government within the 1996 law accepted by everyone? How are the conversations progressing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the many questions on the Ipa which show that you consider the subject to be important, as do I. It is indeed an essential element of our model of social dialogue. As I have already said on several occasions, I have worked very hard, often with the Prime Minister, to ensure that the social partners can reach agreements on this and other issues. They did so, for example in the context of mandatory home-based telework during the covid-19 crisis or, more recently, for the distribution of the three welfare envelopes. Like you, I am convinced that we must be able to count on a strong and functioning social dialogue. This is indeed one of the pillars of our social model. I am therefore pleased to note that agreements can still be reached between the social partners, although this is sometimes difficult. As far as Ipa is concerned, as you know, the social partners have not reached agreement. We have tried several times to get them back around the table, but we have to admit that this has not worked. As the 1996 law provides, we have put forward a proposal for mediation with the social partners. In this regard, I would like to clarify a few points. First, the mediation proposal does provide for a standard of 0.4%, but contrary to what some are trying to suggest, it is not intended to limit automatic indexing to 2.80 or 2.85%. If the mediation proposal mentions this percentage of 2.85, it is only a reminder of the calculation made by the secretariat of the Central Economic Council in January. It is clear that, if indexation were to be higher, it is and remains guaranteed. You know as well as I do that automatic wage indexation allows workers not to get poorer when there is an increase in prices. It must therefore be guaranteed. Second, the mediation proposal also provides that premiums and other benefits that were granted during the Coronavirus crisis prior to April 12, 2021 will not be recorded within the 0.4% margin. These include measures concerning mandatory telework during coronavirus, vaccination leave, agreement in the health care sector, single premiums, and even days off in large food distribution companies. It was indeed essential for us to allow workers who were on the bridge during the crisis, and who were thanked by their employers, to benefit, in addition to these measures, from the maximum increase provided for by law. With regard to the Corona premium, the EUR 500 can be used in a wider way than the consumer cheque decided under the previous government. The aim of this premium is to enable food to be purchased in particular in all types of stores (including supermarkets). Workers will also be able, for example, to use this premium to pay for care at the hairdresser or beautician as well as in all contact occupations that have been hit by the crisis. They will be able to have some things fixed, which is also important in promoting the circular economy. The only limitation that my colleagues and I want to impose is that the premium cannot be used for purchases on the Internet to protect our traders and professionals. Unlike the previous government's consumer cheque, the corona premium is not exempt from social security contributions. Employers will have to pay 16.5 per cent of special contributions on this premium in order to finance social security. As far as this premium is concerned, I repeat, as the Prime Minister did in the sitting, that it can be negotiated both at company and sector level. This was essential to me because we know that in some sectors there are mainly SMEs without a trade union delegation and therefore without any real ability to negotiate within the framework of a balance of forces. We did not wish to limit this premium to a series of conditions. It will therefore be up to the social partners, the social partners at company or sector level to determine the conditions under which this premium can be granted. It was important for us to give the social partners, those who are better aware of the reality of companies and sectors, the responsibility to be able to define the contours and conditions for granting this premium. Finally, last but not least, I confirm that this premium will go beyond the wage standard, as decided by the Central Economic Council. As you know, the social partners responded to the government's proposal for mediation through two letters. The first stated that they could not agree on the first part of the proposal, i.e. the standard and the Corona bonus. I regret that, of course. But I can also see that it is difficult for workers' representatives to agree to work under the law, as amended in 2017. They told us several times. They told you, too. They have sent this message broadly to the general population. As you know, they believe that these changes introduced in 2017 limit too much the margin and negotiating capacity for wage developments. We are many in this Parliament who pointed to the same difficulties and flaws introduced by this law in 2017. I come to a point that some of you have pointed out. I believe that we must now prepare for the next IPA in order to be able to give more flexibility to the negotiations between the social partners, as provided for in the government agreement. We have already done so within the framework of this AIP with the Corona bonus and with the exclusion of a whole series of exceptional and temporary measures taken during the crisis of the coronavirus in terms of working conditions and wage conditions. I think that we will once again have to take this approach for the future IPA if the social partners are still to be able to reach an interprofessional agreement. As regards the second letter sent by the social partners, the latter provides that they agree to negotiate on the four dossiers on which the government asked them to move ahead as a matter of priority. As you know, it is a matter of catching up with the minimum wage, a time limit for harmonization between workers and employees regarding supplementary pensions, temporarily allowing more overtime in certain situations during the period 2021-2022 and the issue of career ends. As I said, I welcome the willingness of the social partners to negotiate on issues that are essential for workers and for the wider world of work. In this context, the issue of the minimum wage is extremely important. As you know, the minimum wage has not been increased for many years without indexation. This leads to a high drop-out in relation to the median wage. As a reminder, while the ratio between the minimum wage and the median wage was 53 per cent in 2008, it is now only 46 per cent. This means that workers at the minimum wage have become poorer compared to the rest of the workers. For us as, I think, for a majority of you, this is unacceptable. The social partners have set up a series of meetings on these four topics. Meetings have already taken place. Others are still to be held this week. I think that they are negotiating seriously with the will to be able to reach an early conclusion. They negotiate in discretion and I think it's very good like that. It is, indeed, often a sign of good will and of the desire to succeed quickly - which I welcome. The government expects news from the social partners on these four cases. As you also know - and I have said on several occasions - the government's proposal for mediation was a whole, a balance. There is no question of moving forward on one side without sufficient guarantees on the other. The social partners have promised us significant progress before 4 June. I hope that will be the case and that we will be able to reach a balanced agreement together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. My party has long advocated a higher net wage for workers and servants, i.e. a reduction in taxes. For us, the state cannot always pass the checkout, if employees are allowed to pay a raise, but that debate is, of course, impossible in this country. On the other hand, social rest is also important in these times of careful recovery of our economy for some of our companies and for others still blood red figures. In general, the lower the level of negotiations, the better for us. Together with you, we look forward to the results after 10 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u15	At the beginning of January, Minister, I spoke to you about the matter. You said at the time that you had a good feeling that the social partners would come out. It's six months later, and you're saying that again. In January, you took sides for the employers and not for the workers who were at the frontline of the corona crisis. According to the latest figures, one in three employees received less wages in 2020, while there is simply enough money to exceed the wage standard of 0.4%. The average reward paid by the top men of the BEL20 was 2.6 million euros, with outliers of 7.14 million euros. For them there is money, but for those who really were on the front line, there is nothing. EUR 6 billion worth of dividends have been paid out to shareholders of companies in the BEL20, you know these figures better than I do. Do you hear that right? There is a maximum of 0.4% for employees. I can give you a lot of numbers of paid bonuses, which no one's talking about, because it turns out to be perfectly normal. Minister, you may hope that you will have an agreement with the social partners in June, but you must be honest, you also have a lot of strike promises on your pants and you do not know which way they will go. Neither do we, but we feel that they are not heading in the right direction or at least not in the direction you are hoping for. In short, an indicative wage standard higher than 0.4% for sectors where profits have been recorded, gross wage increases that finance social security, wage increases with a positive impact on social rights such as pensions, an increase in the minimum wage to 14 euros per hour and a favourable opinion of the sectoral negotiations, it is easy, but you just have to have the will to achieve that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u16	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer to this mass of questions. If you don't mind, I'm going to start with something that is not in your answers. You have explained, as we knew, that the premiums awarded before April 12, 2021 are not accounted for - all that is acquired in terms of telework, vaccination leave, health care agreements, unique bonuses granted as a thank you. Do you confirm that these wage elements, not only are not taken into account in the 0.4%, but that they will not return in two years by means of a "correction" via Article 5? I guess that's what you mean, but you didn't say it explicitly. I see you acquiescing, so thank you for your non-verbal answer. It is, of course, the way I understood it, and it must be understood. The fact that this premium can be spent in the local economy, but in a multitude of stores, is really a good thing. Perhaps a attention: some local businesses use the internet to sell, especially for the offer of take away. Perhaps there are modalities to be refined in these places. But it is a good idea not to allow the premium to be spent on large multinational groups providing services and goods. You confirm that the premium can be negotiated in the company or in the sector. It's a great thing. I am very happy to hear you confirm that negotiations can take place in the sector. As you said, you hung up on this negotiation with a royal order that we can negotiate in the sector or in the company. I would like to stress positively that you do not a priori limit the conditions for granting this premium, and that you trust the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u17	Mrs. Cornet, think about concluding.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u18	I thought I had a little more time because I hadn't read my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u19	You're right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u20	Thank you, Madam President! You have not limited the granting of the premium to very strict conditions. So you trust the social partners at sectoral level - and I support you in this perspective. They are capable, and they can work in confidence to find the best ways where possible, wherever possible. That's what we've been saying for months. I hear that this amendment to the 1996 law introduced in 2017 makes negotiation complicated: a first part has been refused. You're waiting for news about the four key files you've been talking about, including the one related to the minimum wage, but before June 4. So we'll talk about it around that date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers. I can understand the difficulty this government faces in this matter. I also welcome his willingness to succeed by continuing to play his role as mediator and by making reasonable proposals in the hope that a solution can be reached. Indeed, when the government decides on the possibility of granting, on a voluntary basis at the departure of companies that have performed well in spite of the crisis, an exceptional premium of up to 500 euros net, this is a boost, recognizing the investment of these workers in an unprecedented context of work. Moreover, as it had undertaken, the Government confirmed that it would fully implement the allocation of the welfare envelope, as decided by the social partners. It is an envelope of almost EUR 1 billion, designed to raise the benefits of the weakest, such as pensions for the self-employed and employees. It has been several months since fixed deadlines were laid down, for lack of agreement. However, it is indeed desirable that an agreement be reached within the G10 on, among other things, the wage standard and possible coronary premiums. Indeed, such an agreement will both strengthen the purchasing power of workers without impairing the competitiveness of our companies. Finally, at some point, even with the best will of the world, the government will not be able to continue to wait indefinitely for an agreement that does not come and it will have to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u22	Of course, we agree that workers should have a net surplus by the end of the month. This does not mean, however, that we must continue to increase gross wage costs, especially in relation to the countries around us. Lower taxes on labour, that was also the success recipe of the Swedish government and that has resulted in a lot of extra private jobs. The government could follow this example and show solidarity with employers and employees so that workers would have net income at the end of the month, without any increase in gross wage costs. At the same time, it must ensure that wages do not increase more than those in our neighbouring countries. That's the only way to keep jobs in our country and create new ones. The government is aiming for an 80% level of activity. The question remains as to how it intends to achieve this. This is by no means possible with your proposal to relax the wage standard. You said it was agreed in the Croo government. The Croo government is indeed turning its backs on more new taxes and more flexibility for the wage standard. Jobs are then priced out of the market in relation to neighbouring countries. Of course, that is not a salutary path and is in stark contrast to the Swedish Government, which has achieved success in this area. However, I would like to reiterate my plea for the government to show solidarity with employers and employees. Gross wage costs must not be reduced and pay standards must therefore be maintained. However, lower labour costs must be introduced so that workers are effectively left more at the end of the month.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u23	I am very pleased to hear that the social partners are continuing the negotiations. Hopefully we will also see results for the four files you have listed. We must be aware that employers are also making efforts. For example, in the first lockdown, they issued consumer cheques worth €101 million to about 500,000 employees. Post coronapandemia will only be really clear what economic damage it has done to our companies. Self-employed people will certainly suffer an inalienable loss of income, and we must take this into account. I am certainly looking forward to the results of the negotiations. I am also pleased that the 1996 law is being respected in the light of our competitive position vis-à-vis our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u24	Minister, I found your answer very comprehensive. Of course, perfection doesn't exist. Although I would prefer to say yes, there is no progress on the ground. I think that your explanation shows concrete steps in the right direction. I believe that the possibility of negotiating premiums at sectoral level is a step forward. The fact that they are also taken into account for the pension and there is therefore a contribution to social security on the one hand and pensions on the other hand for the workers who have now worked in this way is also an important step forward. The additional negotiations open up the possibility of increasing minimum wages. It has been since 2008 that they have been raised. A lot of workers are currently feeling the ground sinking under their feet. They work hard and unfortunately they don't make ends meet. I hope that this has been well understood by the social partners and that they will reach an agreement not only on the increase in minimum wages but also on end-of-life arrangements. It is not just about income but also about valuation and the fact that the employee does not feel like a number in the workplace. Finally, workers who have worked so hard will be properly appreciated. Like you, I look forward to the outcome of the social partners' negotiations. We fully support you for a closer look at this at a forthcoming round of negotiations on the Ipa. I hear all kinds of explanations here. It is not a question of making work twice as expensive, but rather of making room for the social partners to appreciate workers, to finance social security and to create jobs. I hear raging statements about the previous government, but her figures were not always roses and moonshine. There were jobs with the tax shift, but they also disappeared.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u25	Colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the respect for timing because there are many issues on the agenda and the minister is with us until 5:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u26	Madam President, Minister, it is always nice to be a guest in another committee and to note that the discussions are a bit similar everywhere, often linked to cultural differences and institutional differences, and that the spirits are ripening. There was a debate just now on social dialogue. This leads to a decentralisation of social dialogue, which seems to me to be an interesting discussion. Just as far as decentralisation is concerned, you have a lot of plans. They are also mentioned in the coalition agreement. It is simply said that from 2024 onwards your government wants to see a completely new state structure drawn up, with a more homogeneous and efficient division of powers. That is a very ambitious objective. I have asked the Ministers for Institutional Reforms about this. After all, I am interested to know how this will be dealt with in concrete terms, how much manpower will be put on it. And that's kind of disappointing. There are not many experts available in their cabinets for this, but Minister Verlinden said that there would be experts in all Cabinets, including your cabinet, and certainly in the Cabinets of the Deputy Prime Ministers. I'm doing my rounds right now, checking it out. Is that right? Do you have any experts in state reform in your cabinet? How many are there? What budget have you allocated for this, even to purchase external expertise if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u27	Madam President, Mr Loones, in my cabinet, the institutional system is being followed by two staff. One employee works full-time in my strategic cell and also deals with other matters, such as justice. The other employee is a part-time, 10%, external expert, who will focus specifically on institutional reforms. So far we have not consulted an external company. There is also no specific credit planned at the moment. However, we do not rule out the possibility of discussing these important issues, not least the possibility of asymmetrical exercise of powers according to the needs of the Länder, as provided for in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u28	Madam President, Minister, you are the first Deputy Prime Minister to proactively refer to the asymmetric filling out of powers. I am pleased that you have read this passage in the coalition agreement correctly. A lot of your colleagues seem to have missed that passage. That's the good news. The lesser news is that I was hoping you'd free up some manpower in your cabinet. With all the vice prime ministers, I actually hear the same story. It is always the lawyer the service that is allowed to follow everything, and therefore also the state reform. The level of ambition may therefore be a little higher, especially in your cabinet. That is why I would like to encourage you to invest more in this and to certainly go further along the path of the asymmetrical division of powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u29	Thank you for your very interesting time in committee, Mr Loones!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u30	Is the Renault procedure started? In general, what are the levers available to the government to prevent this kind of practice that consists of lay-off while the company is making a profit? Is Pfizer receiving or has it received government support in the last 5 years? Thank you for your answers to my questions."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u31	Question No 55014959C by Mrs Nadia Moscufo lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u32	Question No 55015192 by Mrs Jadin is not applicable. We are listening to you, Minister, on this matter, which was tabled a few months ago. I would point out that many topical debates have gone beyond this debate. This does not in any way call into question your presence in committee every two weeks, Minister. I'd like to call him back.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u33	Madam President, I thank you for reminding you that I am indeed at the disposal of the committee to answer questions, but that our agenda has often been busy because of many topical debates. It is also the role of a committee and Parliament to organize such exchanges between the government – and in particular your servant – and the members. So I come to the redundancies announced at Pfizer in Zaventem. As far as the announced redundancies at Pfizer are concerned, this announcement by the company is indeed incomprehensible. Like you, I have not heard, so far, a very elaborate argument to explain this lay-off plan. Like you again, I am angry when a company that earns huge profits decides to resort to dry layoffs – moreover, a company active in the pharmaceutical sector and that currently enjoys large orders and important public support. It's an understatement, but I think it's important to remind him. At previous meetings, we have already addressed these issues. So I won't come back. In the meantime, but it is true that the questions were tabled some time ago, I learned that a consultation had begun. As you are aware, I am not used to interfering in the discussions of the social partners. However, in such a case – as in others, for the rest – I wanted a first contact with the unions. Of course, they will continue in the next few days. Like you, I understand that the employer is willing to discuss a possible redeployment of the workers concerned to other divisions of the company. I hope that they will be given every opportunity to do so and therefore also, possibly, the necessary training for the occupation of duties at other sites belonging to this company. In any case, of course, we will have the opportunity to come back to it. I assure you that – in this and other cases – I will remain particularly attentive to respect for procedures and, more generally, to respect for workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u34	Mr Minister, we are in the framework of a Renault procedure. As you say, you do not interfere in the discussion. However, I was asking you about the levers that the government has at its disposal to prevent this type of practice of lay-off when the company produces profits, not least. It is a huge company that employs 2,500 people on four sites. It is also a successful company, which is the subject of huge public orders, public support and who dares to relocate to Romania! These practices are truly scandalous. Every effort must be made to avoid this kind of attitude on the part of a company that makes profits and is the subject of numerous public orders. Minister, you are saying that the company would be ready for redeployment to other sites. I trust each of the partners to organize it as best as possible and to limit losses. Nevertheless, the Renault procedure can perhaps be improved and, in particular, with regard to the possibilities of layoff when a company generates huge profits. We are undoubtedly, as you say, faced with a purely stock exchange dismissal, and that is regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u35	Minister, you say that you are angry about the redundancies at a very profitable multinational. We are equally angry, but I have to laugh at what I hear here by those same Members who said in the discussion of questions about the interprofessional agreement earlier that we should be careful with that 0.4%, as many companies have been hurt by the coronapandemic. Therefore, I really want to know what their answer is. In 2020, the company paid $8.4 billion dividends to its shareholders. At the same time, this year, in the midst of a health crisis and in an economic crisis, the company wants to make 15 billion dollars by selling vaccines. Just before the corona pandemic, people thought that Pfizer would never achieve such large profits as with the invention of Viagra, but the profits made with Viagra are now achieved with the vaccines in one year. Those aren't any more amounts, are they, Minister? I've been in the union here in Belgium for 30 years. A company that had a hard time making a loss used to close the doors. Now people continue to be squeezed like lemon, while these companies continue to receive government grants. Subsidies to large multinational companies must stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u36	Minister, I hear the steps you have taken, and I thank you for that. I can imagine that a company should be careful to improve its processes and optimize its organization. However, the announcement of the removal of 15% of jobs on the Zaventem site, especially at this time, is difficult to understand. We know that this global group has achieved considerable financial results and that its staff has worked in a short time to develop a vaccine against this pandemic that has been disrupting our daily lives for more than a year, not to mention the staff now responsible for manufacturing and conditioning vaccines. Although 100 jobs are, as I have read, created in Puurs for the vaccine production site, the elimination of 38 jobs in Zaventem is discordant. Let's hope that this staff can be reassigned to another site!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u37	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I too have been embarrassed by the fact that Pfizer's employees, who have worked very hard to help develop the vaccine, are getting this as a stench for gratitude and that while Pfizer is making huge profits. I find that bewildering and disgusting. It is good that there have already been contacts with the trade unions and that a number of people are being looked at, but I think more is needed. There are several files from large companies in Belgium that make huge profits, but there are still similar redundancies. The Renault Act needs to be reviewed and evaluated and we need to look at how we can improve it. Those companies are getting state aid and yet they're going to relocalize. We have linked the corona aid to state aid, but I wonder whether we should not extend that link to other cases, so that when we support certain things with tax money, employees have at least a good statute and employment can be maintained here. In my view, these are important levers for state aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u38	Mr Minister, on 4 March, the ABVV gave you a black book with poignant testimonials 2of domestic helpers who, in difficult circumstances and with very limited resources, had to continue working in these corona times. The trade union therefore calls for more binding corona measures and additional controls in the sector. The situation has already evolved. In the meantime, sectoral agreements have already been made on the protection equipment. You used to have to use a mouth mask all week. Meanwhile, one already gets a mouth mask per family where one goes to brush. Despite this improvement, vaccination leave is now refused to those people. They are obliged to move their pre-established time of vaccination to a day off or to take overtime. Parliament has approved vaccination leave, precisely in order to make progress, especially in the service cheque companies, a sector which, according to Sciensano, has the highest levels of infection. Household helpers have every interest in being able to follow their pre-defined time so that they are vaccinated and protected as soon as possible and that this is not delayed. Mr President, how do you intend to improve the working conditions in which domestic workers have to work? How will you enforce the right to vaccination leave? Has there been any further consultation with the sector on protection measures and vaccination leave? There was also an announcement at Flemish level to withdraw recognition of service cheque companies if the measures were not complied with. Has this been discussed with the Flemish Government? What about the controls? Will you push it up? In what way will this happen, taking into account the fact that there is cleaning at home and that it is not clear to the inspection services to carry out checks on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u39	Minister, we have already asked some questions about this in plenary. Then you stated that some protocols could be improved. We also hear that there have been minor adjustments here and there. Could you give us a little more explanation on that? At that time a 200 checks had taken place, now there will be more. What will you do with these checks if the employers refuse to comply in any way? How do you intend to make the controls more efficient? Will you still increase the number of checks, especially now that we are in the final line around certain corona measures? What are the results of these checks? When exactly were they executed? In plenary, you did not answer the question of introducing a minimum wage of EUR 14 per hour, as the current minimum wage is absolutely inadequate. What is the status of minimum wage?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u40	Minister, following your meeting with domestic helpers and unions, you have taken steps to ensure that the health rules are respected. Nevertheless, I am told by testimony that this framework is not strict enough to ensure the protection of these workers. Many customers do not always respect security measures. In fact, the second confinement has only strengthened, with work, families within homes. A lot has already been said, so I'm not going to be redundant. I come immediately to my questions. Minister, do you have an evaluation of the measures you have put in place, including employers' obligation to provide a mask in the workplace and to have enough disinfectant gel? Could you provide us with information on vaccination leave?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u41	At the beginning of March I received a delegation from employees in the service cheque sector. The sector has handed me a book titled "Blackbook - Household Helpers." The book contains some of the many testimonies of housekeepers collected by the ABVV. These testimonies relate to the experiences of these workers during the health crisis, but not only. Working conditions, wage conditions and social consultation are indeed extremely problematic in the sector and have been exacerbated by the health crisis, but the problems were pre-existing. The black book of the housekeepers that was given to me is a true cry of alarm and despair, as many of you have seen during his reading. As you know, I have taken several urgent measures in recent months which concern the sector. For example, there is the protection premium for workers who were temporarily unemployed for a long time in 2020. This premium shall be re-granted in 2021. I have also weighed my weight so that a sectoral agreement can finally be reached on the rules to be applied to protect workers and customers, while social consultation has been at a standstill for many months. In order to enforce this agreement, more than 200 specific controls have been carried out in the service securities sector and they will continue to be carried out since I have heard examples of non-compliance, which are totally unacceptable. That is why I made two concrete proposals at the Consultative Committee on 23 April to improve the protection of these workers against the virus. These proposals were approved by all the other governments present. Employers are therefore required to provide a disposable surgical mask per workstation and an additional mask if the position lasts more than four hours. Workers will also have a sufficient amount of disinfectant gel. As a second step, a household worker who does not feel safe will be able to stop working after contacting his employer until the problem is resolved. If measures are not taken quickly to remedy the situation, the household worker must not return to work. Moreover, this decision should not have any financial consequences: the full salary must be maintained. This is essential for the effective exercise of the right by these workers, who are often in a precarious financial situation. I'm going to the vaccination leave. The situation in the service cheque sector also came to my attention last week. I immediately condemned the situation and pointed out the legal framework. It is important and clear to me that the right to be vaccinated during working time is guaranteed by law. As you know, I have made the proposal to the social partners who have delivered a unanimous opinion on this proposal. This vaccination leave must be able to be used by workers in the securities sector without any restrictions. The facts that were reported to me last week were, of course, denounced and I reminded employers who failed to comply with the law. Beyond this and the particular situation of the crisis, I really want to work in a structural way to give more recognition to workers in these sectors who have important and even essential societal value. They have been recognized as essential sectors and workers in the context of the crisis. This must be taken into account today. I really want to work more structurally with the various players in the case and in particular with my regional counterparts, who are also competent in this area, particularly with regard to the accreditation of service securities companies, to ensure that the working conditions and remuneration of workers in the sector are improved. This is a priority for me for the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u42	Minister, I can only agree with your decision that these are indeed essential workers who have a very important social role to play. Thanks to their supportive work, other people are able to work or stay at home in the case of sick or elderly people. In this sense, these people are indispensable and deserve more appreciation than they do now. The measure you have put in place, allowing them to leave their employment post when they do not feel safe, must be adequately monitored and, if necessary, evaluated for the remaining covid period. This can be an effective tool that they have in their hands to protect their own health. In the meantime, I have received e-mails from other sectors that the same practices concerning vaccination leave are taking place there. It is very important to stress that there was also an agreement by the social partners to guarantee that right because everyone knows how important it is, especially in the essential sectors, that people are protected in time and that employers do not find excuses to further delay that protection of their employees, and indeed our society, by having them reschedule that data.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u43	We are talking about 165,000 housekeepers working under difficult conditions. You rightly say, far too late of course, that solutions must be found. Before the crisis it was not easy for these people, but with the pandemic, the mandatory teleworking, the closure of schools and the quarantines, the housekeepers ended up in a very complicated situation, both with health risks and loss of income as a result. This is still not okay. We still hear stories from people who, despite the quarantine measures, are obliged by their employer to go to work anyway, or people who are not allowed to say anything to their colleagues about a customer corona infection and simply have to continue working. A report on the sector mentioned stress, abuse by employers, risks associated with their work and the consequences for health, lack of training, abuse of certain clients, etc. That's very disturbing, isn't it? That is why we had really hoped for strong measures, such as guarantees for a better remuneration for the housekeepers, who would have a minimum of EUR 14 per hour, or a retention of income when a client has dropped out. Another concern is the obligation for the employer to offer ergonomie work equipment and healthy products. That's not self-evident. A prior check of the workplace to ensure its safety and safety. I must be honest, the employer must maintain the wage, as you said, but there are still many points of improvement. I think you really should take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'd say I'm pretty satisfied. As you have indicated, 200 controls in the sector are not yet sufficient, but these controls have at least the merit of being in place and in place, as well as the protective measures. You can always say it's too late, but, not so long ago, you were not in the government. Nevertheless, I would like to highlight the measures taken, and above all the last sentence you have given. You said you wanted to work structurally with the sector. It is important to stress this. Similarly, it is essential to work with the various actors, as this is a cross-cutting subject, so that it will be necessary to work in partnership with the Regions. I also mean that not only do you want to improve working conditions, but also that raising their wages will be a priority. I think that at some point we need to be able to highlight things, to see the aspects that have been improved in the sector and to insist on the agreement of the social partners. Indeed, guaranteeing the right to vaccination is of course a priority and you have recalled it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u45	A recent report mentions very worrying working conditions in some companies in the French fries sector.There is a clear indication of the company's responsibility in terms of maintenance and safety for workers. Testimony reports water flowing on electric meters, emergency doors blocked by pallets, waste on the ground (which, in addition to their health impact, have an impact on the safety of workers), and lack of maintenance of equipment resulting in a serious accident.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u46	The report of the RTBF to which you refer in your question cited the four main potato derivatives plants. They are mainly located in the province of Hainaut. I called the Hainaut Regional Directorate of the Directorate-General for the Control of Welfare at Work, as a territorially competent inspection service. The serious accidents at work mentioned in the programme have all been investigated by social inspectors of the above-mentioned service. Since most of the files are still under way at the level of the labour auditorate and given the duty of discretion which the inspectors are required to carry out in accordance with the provisions of the Social Penal Code, I cannot provide you with any further information on this matter at this time. Nevertheless, I can assure you that the companies in question have been the subject of numerous visits by the relevant inspectors and that they have taken the appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u47	Minister, the facts are indeed serious. In one company there are eight accidents at work, eight of which are ongoing judicial investigations. In another company, 19 accidents at work. What has been updated in this report is very worrying. It is important to verify the information identified in this report. It is also necessary to understand why recent photos show current shortcomings in terms of the quality and safety of the working environment while the Hainaut labour auditorate has intervened and that, according to him, this company is up to standards. However, this report shows that this may not be entirely the case or not at all. An objectivation of information is to be made. I invite you to continue your contacts with the labour auditorate, because we cannot let workers continue to do their jobs under such conditions. It is dangerous for people and it is to pull down working conditions in companies, which is not acceptable. As a minister, you can take initiatives to verify this information to ensure that every investigation leads to a fair treatment of everyone and that their working environment is secure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u48	Minister, parental leave, one of the thematic leave, gives parents the right to work less or not for a certain period of career, in order to get more free time to be with the children. Parental leave is granted to both partners on the birth, recognition or adoption of a child. The regulations and the flexibility of this leave have been better adapted and extended in recent years. In addition, there is more scope for extending this leave over the longer term. However, there is a problem when one of the two partners dies at a young age. If the deceased parent has not taken the right to parental leave or has not taken it entirely, the balance of parental leave of that person shall lapse. Mr Minister, since the remaining partner at that time alone is responsible for the education of the children, would it not be advisable to transfer the remaining balance of parental leave from the deceased partner to the surviving partner? Have you already consulted with associations of interest on this matter? I would also like to have the government's position on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u49	The European directives on parental leave regard this leave as an individual right for each male and female worker. Under Directive 2010/18, Member States could choose to make it transferable for three out of four months. The new Directive 2019/1158 limits this to two out of four months. The aim of this restriction is to promote equal treatment between men and women in the labour market. Belgium, when introducing parental leave in 1997, for the same reason chose not to provide for any transferability of parental leave. The proposal to allow a derogation now for the very specific situation in which one of the parents dies is, in my opinion, legitimate in itself. However, such a change should respect the standstill principle in order to ensure that fundamental rights are maintained as regards equality between men and women.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u50	Minister, for young widows and widowers, transferring the remaining balance of parental leave from their deceased partner would be very welcome. Those concerned are responsible only for the household, the financial administration, and the care and education of the child or of the children. The transfer of parental leave is a social measure with a limited financial impact as far as we are concerned. It would provide additional support for those involved in education and attention to their child.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u51	Madam President, Mr Van der Donkt, it is clear that the impact of the corona crisis will continue in the coming months, perhaps even until 2022. The corona landing track thus remains an added value for the economic recovery. Article 9 of Royal Decree No. 46 of 26 June 2020 provides that runways can be used in companies recognised by the Minister of Work as a company in difficulty and/or restructuring. This is to the extent that the recognition period starts at the earliest on 1 March 2020 and at the latest on 31 December 2020. Reference is made to the Royal Decree of 3 May 2007 on unemployment with single payment. For a firm in restructuring, the maximum recognition period starts from the announcement of collective redundancies until two years after the service of collective redundancies. An undertaking in difficulty recognised on the basis of the annual accounts shall be subject to a maximum recognition period of one year, as shall an undertaking which relies on a percentage of economic unemployment. For the latter companies, the approval period, which should start on 31 December 2020 at the latest, shall run until 30 December 2021. This implies that the employees of these companies will be able to board a runway until 30 December 2021 at the latest. The social partners are currently discussing the measures to extend the runway in the NAR and I hope they will be able to give an opinion quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u52	Minister, I am sure you understand the context from which the N-VA asked this question. Our vision of runways does not really fit in with the government's intention or ambition to gradually boost the employment rate. I look forward with you to the advice of the social partners. As soon as that's available, I'm sure you can get it to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u53	Minister, on 8 March a press release was published by the National Bank on the impact of the covid crisis on gender inequality on the labour market. Whether the crisis could lead to a weaker position of women in the labour market appears to be a very complex question. A study will therefore be carried out on the impact of parenting on the careers of women and men, the results of which can be expected in December 2021. Some interesting key elements have already been raised. In general, it appears that more career breaks and reductions in working hours are being taken up by women and that this has been reinforced during the covid crisis. In addition, corona parental leave was taken up by women in 71% of the dossiers. I have already asked you about this. At the same time, a positive note is that fathers were more involved in caring for the children, although still less than women. Minister, do you see opportunities for a structural mentality change in this respect? If so, how do you intend to anchor this in labour market policy? The press release also shows that women's access to telework has increased significantly: 42% compared with 37% of men. Of course, this offers opportunities to improve the balance between work and private life, but it can also lead to psychosocial risks. Do you have the ambition to identify the possible psychosocial risks of telework in more detail and possibly to draw up an action plan for this purpose? ING economists expect the crisis to cause as much as 10,000 additional bankruptcies. The expected increase in the number of bankruptcies, combined with the inevitable restructuring after a crisis of this magnitude, may, according to their analysis, lead to an additional loss of 15,000 to 20,000 jobs. How will you ensure that women will not be the first victims of restructuring, just because in the corona crisis they took care of children even more than otherwise and were less hours present in the workplace? This could give employers the idea that they should also be the first to be brought forward in the event of restructuring.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u54	We are aware of the problem. The effects on gender inequality are examined, inter alia, in the monitoring by the Working Group on Social Impact Coronavirus, to which my services contribute. The welfare legislation already provides a clear framework for employers with extensive obligations in terms of the psychosocial well-being of their employees. The risk analysis should be updated in the light of the changed circumstances. Among other things, mandatory telework has a major impact on the psychosocial risks at work. In addition, it is particularly important to continue to sensitise employers and to provide guidance on the development and implementation of teleworking policies. The FPS Employment has therefore recently organised webinars on telework with tips and recommendations on health effects. External prevention services also offer many tools to prevent and address the risks of well-being in teleworking. They can also help to develop a telework policy. The weaknesses and challenges in our labour market, which are exacerbated by the corona crisis, need to be addressed. Relance policy must go hand in hand with a strategy against increasing inequality and vulnerability in our society. In addition, measures, such as temporary unemployment for care, remain necessary as long as children are not able to go to school full-time. It is a sign of the unequal distribution of care tasks that women, in particular, used to do so. However, it would be even worse if they stopped working completely. Finally, I am in the process of transposing the directive on work-life balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u55	Mr Minister, you did not really answer my third question. Perhaps we can come back to that later. It is, of course, not easy to uphold principles if, in the course of restructuring, those who were less on the work floor in previous years are first put on the door. However, I would urge you to consider measures to avoid this. The Committee also welcomes the update of the mandatory risk analysis system in view of the new constellation of teleworking. But there is even more problem with risk analysis. Last week, during the hearings on the long-term sick, we heard that risk analyses were not carried out everywhere or too late. There is also a great deal of work to be done when it comes to dealing with the results of risk analyses and their sharing of knowledge.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. However, I doubt whether you see the real scale of the problem. The health crisis will only allow gender equality to be achieved one generation later, according to the annual study of the World Economic Forum. Your socialist colleague in the Brussels government, Nawal Ben Hamou, said that the report would be echoed by all policy makers. Unfortunately, we have to note that it did not penetrate the federal level. After all, whenever we propose amendments to combat gender inequality, they are systematically rejected. I am thinking in particular of our amendment to ensure the continuation of remuneration during the temporary closure of classes or during the quarantine. However, that amendment was intended because, firstly, it is mainly women who are faced with this form of unemployment to look after the children and, secondly, because women are the majority of the essential professions, the same professions that offer little scope for teleworking. We will therefore continue to propose our solution in the sitting. Do not say that you support 100 percent of the fight against gender inequality if you do not support our positive proposals in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u57	Minister, this question has been circulating among the Cabinets for some time. She was filed the moment the third lockdown was just declared. For many self-employed people, this lockdown means the end of their self-employment. Despite the many support mechanisms we have been hearing on the field for months that many self-employed people will not survive this third closure period. Unfortunately, the life work of many thousands of self-employed people will turn into bankruptcy. After the first two lockdowns, many self-employed people went bankrupt. We are told that there are major problems with their application for some compensation. It may be that not everyone knows the right way to apply, but above all the current arrangements are more complex and unclear. Failed self-employed workers may be entitled to unemployment benefit if they have previously been employed and have been self-employed for less than 15 years. However, this right is limited to 12 months, the same period during which they retain their social rights, provided that they have paid their contribution at least four quarters during the last 4 years. However, many self-employed workers are excluded from this scheme. Some are independent for 20 to 30 years and see their life's work lost, but are entitled to nothing. Moreover, they are on the eve of the end of their careers and are becoming very difficult to find a place in the labour market. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Are you prepared to relax this scheme, given the exceptional situation caused by the corona crisis and the fact that it is because of government decisions that self-employed people are now going bankrupt? It is particularly difficult to find very practical information for failed self-employed people on a government site. Will you work on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u58	Madam President, Mr Verreyt, in order to have access to unemployment benefit, an unemployed person must provide proof of a number of paid employment days for a certain period immediately prior to the application for benefit, the reference period. The principle of unemployment insurance is that an employee can only benefit from benefits on the basis of employment benefits subject to social security, unemployment sector. This is not the case in the case of self-employed services. Self-employed persons contribute to the social security scheme for self-employed persons, which does not provide for entitlement to unemployment. They do not contribute to the unemployment rate of the social security system for workers and are therefore not entitled to benefits if they become inactive. However, an exception is made for self-employed workers who have worked as employees before becoming self-employed. If they have worked long enough as an employee, the reference period for checking entitlement to unemployment benefit may be extended by a maximum of 15 years during the period of self-employment. I do not intend to revise this exception. It's already a deviation from the rule. There is therefore no time limit for receiving unemployment benefits. On the website of the RVA various information sheets can be found on the conditions for admission to entitlement to benefits, e.g. the info sheet T87, What is the impact of an independent activity on the right to unemployment benefits?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u59	The right of bridging does not fall within the competence of the RVA nor, by extension, does it belong to mine. For questions on this subject, I refer to Mr Clarinval, who is responsible for the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u60	Thank you for your partial answer. Of course, the question was not put to you either, but to Mr Clarinval. He was pleased to refer him to your cabinet. I can't help it either. This is the expected answer I was going to get. In the first place, it is particularly serious for those self-employed who often see their own business go bankrupt after many decades because of decisions they have not taken themselves, but because of decisions which the government has imposed on them, namely the compulsory closure, with or without the necessary support. For that group of self-employed people who have always done it on their own, who were not dependent on the government for their income, we must do everything we can to help them, even if it was sometimes with more information and more targeted information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u61	Mrs Cornet, the law of 24 November 2020 granted the Horeca Fund a single grant of 167 million euros. This subsidy can only be used to finance the part of the year-end premium to be paid for the assimilation of temporary unemployment days. Furthermore, as a government, we are not involved in the regulation of year-end premiums. As you know, this is an autonomous competence of employers and the social partners, which is regulated by collective labour agreements. As you indicated in your question, incorrect data was transmitted to the fund, resulting in some double payments. I spare you the technical details, but if you wish, I can pass them on to you. Employees who have received a double payment will be required to repay the undue payment to the employer or directly to the fund. He assures that he is ready to help any worker who has questions about it. I am of course aware that restrictive measures have a significant impact on the incomes of the workers concerned. It is precisely to help the sectors and their workers that we have provided this subsidy – for the end-of-year premium in particular. We could also go back to the protection bonus. A limited number of workers received a higher end-of-year premium than they were entitled to. This is indeed a very unfortunate situation, but the legislation does not allow it to be abandoned altogether. Moreover, this does not seem fair to colleagues in the sector who received the amount to which they were entitled. ONSS is also examining options to combat or prevent these forms of fraud using data mining or data matching. He will then consult with ONEM.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answer. Since this is a computer problem, it seems to me that the insurance trail, to cover this problem, could be interesting. Indeed, workers who have had a very large loss of income find themselves having to repay an amount that they believed was acquired in good faith and received because of this computer problem. That is regrettable. I hear that the fund is ready to be flexible, which is very good. I hear that ONSS is putting in place a series of measures to avoid this kind of error, or even fraud – something quite different. But this case is unfortunate and has a little more hope for the workers. I hope that all the beacons can be taken so that such mistakes can no longer occur and that insurance can be sought. They were too little to my liking during this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u63	Madam President, Minister, the situation in the Joint Committees of the FPS Employment is becoming increasingly untenable. The number of presidents of the various joint bodies is falling gradually.......................................................................................................................................................................................... Of the only ten people in office of the Joint Committees, some are on sick leave for a long time, while others are about to retire. At present, there are not enough presidents to manage social dialogue. I have the following questions. What is the situation in the joint committees? What feedback did you get? Did you contact the FPS Employment? What measures will you take to increase the number of Presidents? Will you ensure that long-term ill and retired presidents are replaced?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u64	Madam President, Mr Colebunders, there is indeed a staff problem in the Social Conciliation Department of the administration. The department's capacity has been 18 private sector officials since the last major wave of recruitment and retirement in 2010 and 2012. However, five of these people are currently seconded: three to a minister's policy cell, one to an international organisation and one has recently become a mandater in the administration. Furthermore, three retirements are expected this year and three in the following years and there is a long-term sick person in the department. Two recruitments are planned. However, the capacity problem in the group has reached a critical stage with ten staff members calculated for July 2021 for the private sector currently in service. The administration has informed us of this urgent situation. A number of temporary measures, such as the use of public sector mediators, will be taken to ensure at least the minimum performance of essential tasks, such as the chairing of joint committees and the performance of mediation tasks. However, a structural solution is needed and the administration has submitted a note for additional resources in order to recruit eight mediators in the short term. It is clear that strengthening the service is a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u65	Minister, in your coalition agreement you always praise the social dialogue. That is a good thing, let us be clear. But effectively give them the means to carry out their tasks. I still do not understand why the problem continues to arise. Surely you didn't find out from today to tomorrow that you're going to have a staff shortage because these people are retiring. Such a thing is seen years in advance. It is clear to us that this sort of thing happens because of the years of saving problems. Because of your lack of foresight, we will end up with pensioners who will have to continue to work. There is no other solution. These are the general savings that are not in the interest of the public service. So we are listening carefully to the measures you are going to take. You have already listed some of them. We will ensure that these are carried out correctly and come back to you if necessary. We hope not to have to do that, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u66	Minister, the reactivation of persons in primary incapacity for work or in disability has been high on the political agenda for many years. Yet this group grows every year. That puts pressure on social security. It is also an important element in achieving an employment rate of 80%, which was proposed by the government. Control of primary incapacity for work shall be carried out at the level of the health insurance authorities and at the second level, the supervisory doctors of the RIZIV. The large differences in the figures between Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia suggest that different standards are being applied. This large group must be activated. This seems to work better in Flanders than in Wallonia, but the proceeds are federal. We are also aware that not all primary disabled persons are ready for employment, but there must be an underlying reason why these figures have been rising so exponentially in recent years. Minister, would it not be better to make the regions fully financially responsible in this area, so that real action is taken to bring this large group back into the labour market? Do you have data on the underlying reasons why there are so many primary incapacityes in Belgium? Do you have any contacts on this matter with your colleague from Social Affairs, who is also partly competent in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u67	Mrs Samyn, my answer is the same as my answer to your written question No. 266. As you know, this is a shared competence with Minister Vandenbroucke in the federal government. Together, we worked out our priorities and strategic objectives and already went into this in consultation with the relevant ministers of the regions and the social partners. It is the regions responsible for drawing up and implementing labour market policies, which are tailored to the specific needs of the region according to the socio-economic situation. They are responsible for target groups, vocational training and employment. Over the next few years, we will provide consultation and partnerships between the federal government and the regions. We want to achieve the best possible cooperation between the actors on the ground, so that long-term sick people can take the step back to workable work once they have been restored.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It seems obvious to me that good consultation is taking place, especially with the regions. I find it a little strange to hear that they are still in the study and consultation phase. However, good studies have been available for years, including from the Leuven Research Institute for Labour and Society. With all this scientific work, too little is being done in Parliament. The problem is and remains a link between these studies and the legislation. Recommendations are being implemented too little. The same applies to the problem of the reactivation of persons in primary incapacity for work. I therefore hope that something good will come out of the bus as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u69	Minister, you have given us the unemployment figures for 2020. These are.................................................................................................................... Despite all the measures taken to combat the effects of the corona pandemic, the number of unemployed increased by 2020 to an average of almost 340,000 on an annual basis. This is worrying, but what worries us even more is the regional distribution of these figures. The number of unemployed in the Flemish and Walloon regions is almost identical, i.e. 136,000 in respect of 137,000, while Flanders has almost twice the population of Wallonia. So that figure is at least disturbing. Brussels also scores very badly. Nearly 20% of all unemployed live in the Brussels region, with only 10% of the Belgian population living there. I would like to hear what actions you will take to address these regional differences and reform the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u70	It should be noted that labour market policy powers have been transferred since 1 July 2014. Since then, the Regions have full regulatory power. The regions thus have full competence over target groups and employment measures. There is still a residual power for more general measures such as the reduction of patronial RSZ contributions. New measures on labour market policies or existing measures which are amended, removed or replaced by another measure entirely depend on the Region. The federal government is no longer competent for this and therefore has no control over it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u71	Minister, I think it is appropriate to sit with your colleagues in connection with this problem. A strong policy response is also necessary to avoid this structural increase in unemployment in the aftermath of the corona crisis. It is also partly because of the corona crisis that unemployment is increasing. I would like to mention a specific target group, namely young people. In all crises, young people are hit harder and they are most often affected by income or job losses. I too am in this crisis. In any case, unemployment rates are a good indicator of how to encourage you and, consequently, the other governments to take action. We therefore hope that there will be an action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u72	Joined Questions Nos 55016166C and 55016469C by Gilles Vanden Burre are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u73	Minister Statbel recently told us that the gap between the employment rate of Belgians and non-European citizens was 32.5 percentage points in 2020. It was one of the worst results in 20 years. Gender has a significant impact on the employment rate gap: non-European women would be particularly affected, with a difference of 40.5 percentage points compared to Belgian women. As for non-European men, this would be 23.8 percentage points. The location of these non-European citizens also influences the employment rate. Brussels is the region where the gap is lowest, followed by Flanders and Wallonia. Minister, closing the employment gap between Belgians and non-European citizens was part of the European Union's 2020 strategy. However, no significant improvement was noted in this regard. This also shows that Belgium has failed to implement more effective and inclusive integration policies on the labour market. Minister, in your policy note, you proposed that a test of discrimination be put in place. What's your status in creating this test? Will it make it possible to detect discrimination faced by non-European nationals in their search for employment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u74	Mrs Thémont, thank you for your question. I am not going to go back to the figures you have pointed out, which speak for themselves about the work that remains to ensure that this gap in the employment rate between European and non-European nationals is reduced. One way to achieve this is probably in the situational tests. Situation tests already exist at the federal level. As you know, they were introduced into the Social Penal Code in 2018 through the addition of article 42/1, which refers to the specific powers of social inspectors in relation to findings relating to discrimination. However, the various cumulative conditions set out in this text have made their application almost ineffective. That is why a preliminary draft law amending article 42/1 of the Social Penal Code has been introduced. After approval by the Council of Ministers, the text was submitted for opinion to the National Labour Council (NCT). The opinion of the Advisory Council on Social Criminal Law, the Data Protection Authority, Unia and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men was also sought. The text will still be submitted to the Legislative Section of the Council of State before being tabled in the House and submitted for your consideration. The aim of these situation tests is indeed to update possible practices of discrimination, particularly but not solely on the basis of ethnic origin, by removing the legal obstacles currently contained in article 42/1 of the Social Penal Code. The proposed amendments should enable social law inspectors to respond more quickly and effectively to the discrimination in hiring of persons of foreign origin. There will still be a need to improve the tools available to inspectors, such as datamining and datamatching. This will be done in the next step.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u75	Minister, thank you for your satisfactory answer. As you said, the draft legislation is in progress before it is tabled in the House. This will make it possible to react to discrimination in hiring. We know that the differential treatment of persons according to their origin affects not only non-nationals, but also and above all Belgians of foreign origin born, socialised but also schooled in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u76	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a study by Ghent University shows that anyone who has won the fight against cancer and wants to get back to work is discriminated against. The hole in someone's resume due to cancer is more harmful than age. The fear of employers to recruit or re-enlist cancer patients is great, because they think that the person will fall ill again or have to make too many changes in work organisation or in the workplace. There was research on this before, but now there is a new study at the request of Kom op tegen Kanker to what extent employers may play a role in the discrimination against ex-cancer patients. There are a number of notable findings in this regard. It turns out that a cancer experience is less detrimental to men than to women. It is also less detrimental if a woman decides on recruitment or if the person who decides on recruitment herself has had a cancer experience. All of these points point to the fact that there is still stigmatisation, while the candidate worker has been seriously ill and found the courage to get back to work, despite the fact that discrimination due to a cancer experience has been prohibited by law since 2007. This is also confirmed by the case law: the employee can be regarded as a disabled worker and employers are then obliged to make reasonable adjustments. The results of the investigation are astonishing. Have you also taken note of the study? Do you have any idea the extent of the problem? What measures do you intend to take for ex-cancer patients to improve the application of anti-discrimination legislation? What about the right to reasonable adjustments? Can cancer recovery and other long-term diseases such as depression be included in the practical tests as a grounds for discrimination? If so, those ex-patients would have more opportunities if they wanted to get back to work after their healing. Will there be extra attention for women with a cancer experience, because according to the research they are still in a worse position than men? Finally, it is relatively unknown that such a thing is a grounds for discrimination. Will this be sensitized, by employers and employees, possibly in cooperation with Kom op tegen Kanker? Thus, when ex-patients are faced with such discrimination, access to the complaints mechanism can become clear?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u77	I have taken note of the research of UGent@Work, KULeuven and VUB, about which Knack has reported. The researchers had real selection-responsible evaluations made of fictitious job candidates with a work break on their CV. The reason for that interruption was known. Of course, as a competent minister, I cannot agree to discrimination in any form whatsoever in the workplace. The law of 10 May 2007 on combating discrimination prohibits, inter alia, direct and indirect discrimination in the workplace because of the state of health or disability. The employer's refusal to make reasonable adjustments for a person with disabilities is also covered by discrimination. In 2018, a judge for the first time named the consequences of cancer as a disability, as you say. The Law of 10 May 2007 will be reviewed shortly. In this connection, I would like to refer you to my colleague Sarah Schlitz. As far as the discrimination tests are concerned, I will raise the issue with the competent inspection service. It will also examine how an awareness-raising campaign can be launched in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u78	Thank you for your answer, Minister, but also for your initiatives on inspection and awareness raising to raise the awareness of employers and workers about the grounds for discrimination. Ex-patients have equal rights, we need every talent to achieve the employment rate we seek. When ex-patients find courage to work after a severe illness, they must have all the rights to reasonable adjustments and all the chances of recruitment. In any case, I would like to ask Mrs Schlitz about the evaluation of the legislation. If her answer is not satisfactory, I will certainly take a legislative initiative to clarify the law of 2007. It should not depend on legal arguments that cancer, depression or other diseases constitute grounds for discrimination. We believe that ex-patients deserve every opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u79	Madam President, Minister, in April 2020 many of us applauded the care staff every evening at 8 p.m. It is a pity that we needed a corona epidemic, so that we can finally see the value of this staff. For the people who thought they were valued and that it was now known, let me give you the following. A very large group, 136 health care workers in Brussels, appears to be losing their jobs. On the one hand, the multinational Armonea wants to close a retirement home in Molenbeek, leaving 108 employees on the streets. On the other hand, Senior Living Group also threatens to fire 28 employees from four retirement homes. During the crisis, those workers didn't count their hours. They worked day and night. For weeks, they went to work against the coronavirus without any protective material. Some even placed themselves in quarantine in the rest homes themselves, to protect the residents. Those heroes deserve our respect. Nevertheless, layoffs are still being announced. That is unacceptable. You should also know that Senior Living Group made 65 million euros worldwide in 2020 and that Armonea, which for years did not invest in the facilities and let its institutions fall behind, is taking advantage of the non-compliance with the standards, to close institutions and fire staff. This is a well-known strategy of the latter company. That's why I have a few questions. What will you do to prevent the layoffs? More generally, do you not believe that, in order to avoid job losses in the sector, there should be a ban on redundancies in retirement homes that effectively made large profits or paid dividends?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u80	Madam President, Mr Colebunders, since the beginning of the health crisis, the staff of the rest homes have been working hard to prevent the spread of COOVID-19. They've been in the front line of the disease. Now that they are facing dismissal, I can understand the resentment of the nursing staff you mentioned. In the event of collective redundancies, as you know, the regulations require the employer to comply with an information and consultation procedure, the well-known Renault procedure. In this context, my administration has received a notification to this effect from the company Armonea. Interlocuted, if not shocked, by this notification, I immediately asked my office to contact staff representatives. In fact, I had thought that in this announcement I had detected a negative consequence of the commodification of the non-market sector, which had already shocked me in the context of the infamous case of the Tintigny estate in the disability sector. Regionalization of the sector does not simplify things, but I think it should not prevent us from working together with my regional counterparts. I think that we must at all costs avoid unhealthy competition in this area, which could be detrimental to both residents and staff. A recipient company cannot play with its workers as well as with cards that would be defeated in an attempt to improve its earning potential. I am also thinking of the residents who would be uprooted by the closure of their nursing home. The so-called stock market redundancies are already known, the main objective of which is to satisfy shareholders, without any consideration for staff, or even for users or for customers, for essentially short-term purposes. We felt that we were trying to apply the same recipe in the non-market sector, which is particularly unacceptable. In any event, we will follow closely the development of this file. I have no doubt that the regional authorities will do the same. On the other hand, with regard to your last question, which was also Ms Moscufo's question, my administration did not receive any information from the other company mentioned, Senior Living Group. As far as the Renault procedure is concerned, as you know, if the number of planned redundancies does not reach the threshold laid down by law for collective redundancies, it is normal that my administration has not been requested by the company itself. But we have not received any inquiry into this matter from the trade union organizations in my office. However, as in other cases, we will of course remain attentive to developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u81	Minister, I do not know if you have made a list of the companies I mentioned here, which are reorganising or closing while they are making large profits. Apparently that's gonna be the new normal around here, and we're just looking at it. I know that as a minister you are not responsible for this situation in the Belgian retirement homes, but the presence of your party in Wallonia and Brussels means that responsibility must be taken. How is it possible that basic tasks such as supporting, housing and caring for our senior citizens are managed by the private sector? You were not talking about unhealthy competition when it should not be about competition. After all, it is a service. Why is there so much political disinvestment in this area? In Brussels, seven retirement homes out of ten are in private hands. If you go back ten years in time, you will be frightened by those figures. That is not a good thing, not only because they really empty out the accounts of the senior citizens, but also because they do not hesitate to fire their staff when they consider it necessary. We do not accept that. That is why we ask your party to stop the commercial logic of profit-making in this sector. We ask you, as Minister of Economy and Work, to put an end to the redundancies in these retirement homes. We also ask for your particular attention to be paid to the dividends paid by these large groups. That's really not normal anymore. In 2019, dividends from Senior Living Group amounted to almost 50 million euros. Orpea was even worth almost 80 million euros. These multinationals must stop making usury profits on the back of these vulnerable people, who have kept up the good work throughout the coronation. My comrades in the regional parliaments will certainly come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u82	Madam President, Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u83	Madam President, Mr Colebunders, we met with a trade union delegation of social inspectors from the ACOD. Of course, we share their concerns. I am fully aware of the situation and hope that it will be possible to increase the number of staff during the next budget negotiations. This will also be necessary in order to achieve properly all the objectives of the 2021 Action Plan to combat social fraud and thus contribute to the budgetary objectives. As I have pointed out on several occasions, in the meantime, and this is reflected in the government agreement, the number of inspectors has to be gradually brought into line with the standards set by the International Labour Organization. In the last quarter of 2020, the number of field inspectors increased from just under 800 to 830, thanks to recruitment. Recently, as part of the budget preparation, it was decided to strengthen the fight against social dumping through the additional recruitment of eight social inspectors. In developing the 2020-2021 Action Plan, we have tried to take into account the additional workload resulting from the covid-19 pandemic and will adapt the objectives during the year if necessary. A decision on this could be made at the SIRS Strategic Committee meeting next week. Nevertheless, it is true that the social inspection services have had to adapt their covid control strategy whenever additional instructions have been given by the concertation committee. This required adjustments to the Ministerial Decree of 28 October 2020. I therefore realize that we are asking our inspectors for a great deal of flexibility, and I also expressed my thanks at my meeting with the trade union delegation. I reiterate my thanks here today. I have already mentioned on several occasions the question of the inclusion of social inspectors among the essential professions. Last week, I sent a letter to the Supreme Council of Health asking it to consider the profession of social inspector as an essential profession. They should therefore be able to receive vaccination as soon as possible. I have previously informed the inspection services and the coordinating body, SIRS, that without correct, concrete and up-to-date figures, it is difficult to implement the pandemic prevention policy and to provide correct and timely feedback on this matter to the members of your committee. In addition, the services have had to adapt their reports to each change in the prevention rules, but I hope that with the end of the fight against this pandemic, the pressure on the figures will immediately disappear. Finally, with regard to the applicable sanctions, I refer to my fellow Ministers of Justice and the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u84	In particular, Minister, I would remind you that you consider the role of social inspector to be an essential function. I think we'll all be vaccinated in a month or two, so it's time for this to finally be recognised. I'm not going to go into it any further. As I've said before, I have a syndical past. For 30 years, I have worked very closely with a lot of social inspectors. I've only seen it go backwards, while their work kept increasing. I've always had a hate-love relationship with them. As a union man, I was disappointed if no one showed up when I called. That wasn't because they didn't want to, but just because they couldn't because they were overloaded. I think it's not five to twelve, Minister, but five to twelve. You will have inherited a great deal from your predecessors. I have no doubt about that, but now it is time to take up your responsibility and invest urgently in these services. These people can do their jobs again, in cooperation with the unions who need their help in time and time. It is therefore urgent for these workers, but also urgent from the point of view of health. As is well known, the workplace is one of the most important infections. As long as we cannot protect workers from this virus, we will not be able to control the epidemic and return to normal life. Let's hope this is over very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u85	Madam President, Minister, the statute of flexi-jobbers was created to gild the bitter pill of the white cash register for the catering industry. This system can also be used by the trade sector. However, the statute is breaking down our principle of social security. These temporary workers have virtually no social protection and can never benefit from unemployment benefits. Due to the months of compulsory closure of the catering industry, these workers have not been able to obtain any temporary unemployment due to corona and have suffered severe income losses. Professor of Economics André Decoster calculated that this loss of income for them could amount to as much as 28.8 %, which is twice as hard for a sector in which low wages are already paid. At the end of 2019 there were almost 70,000 unique users of this statute, of which four fifths were active in the catering industry. Of these, almost 10,000 retired people made extra money in this system. On average they perform five hours a week, the pensioners even seven hours a week. It also improves the government, as the system raised nearly 30 million euros in social security income in 2019. Only the employer pays a social contribution of 25%. The employee does not pay a social contribution, but gets nothing in return. The viability of an economic sector such as the catering sector is thus paid on the back of the worker's social protection. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Will you review the flexi-jobs system and give these workers a full status? Do you also believe, like your predecessor Minister De Backer, that the system should be extended to the construction or taxi sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u86	Madam President, Minister, the KU Leuven study to which my colleague refers shows that the income shock caused by the corona crisis is very uneven and that the total loss of income is concentrated on 35.6 % of the workforce. The vulnerability of people in a flexistatus, for example, but also in other precarious statutes, demonstrates the lack of social protection even more clearly, and I would also like to add to that the people working with day contracts. In the coalition agreement we can read that we will evaluate the different forms of contract in the labour market. We also read that same commitment in your policy statement and note and state that we must protect the labour market, that work and social security are linked and that employment is essential to finance social security. You refer to the approach of day-to-day contracts and the modernisation of the employment relationship law to combat bogus self-employment, with particular attention to the protection of workers working in the platform economy. What is the state of play regarding the evaluation of the different forms of contract in our labour market, as stated in the government agreement? Is there an evaluation report on the subject? Which actors are involved? When do you expect the results? If that still needs to be started, when do you think this process will be able to start?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, flexi jobs originate from the 2015 Catering Plan, which introduced a series of support measures to compensate for the introduction of the registered cash register. However, the measure was intended not only to give more oxygen to the catering companies, but also to tackle undeclared work in the sector. Following the corona crisis, an interdepartmental working group on Social Impact of the COVID-19 crisis was set up. The Working Group monitors the socio-economic impact of the health crisis, including on certain vulnerable groups, such as flexi-jobbers, and examines the impact of the corona measures on these groups. In this context, on 17 April 2021, the Working Group issued a thematic report containing up-to-date information, which will now be examined by the Vulnerable Groups Task Force. The findings of the working group and of the task force will, of course, be an important element in assessing the status of flexi-jobs. Nevertheless, I believe that the question of whether the status of flexi-jobs should be extended or limited after the corona crisis should be considered in a broader context than the current health crisis and that an overall assessment of this form of employment, in cooperation with the social partners, should be made. In this context, it is important to mention that in 2019 the Court of Auditors carried out an audit of the flexi-jobs in the hospitality industry, which was published on its website. The Court of Auditors has established that at least 35.3 % of flexi jobs are not additional employment, but a shift of existing employment. Due to the lower social contributions, this shift is accompanied by fewer social security benefits. High contributions for regular jobs are thus replaced by low contributions for flexi-jobs. This seems to me to be a very important element to be taken into account in the future evaluation of the flexi-job status. Additional measures to involve long-term beneficiaries in the labour market may be considered, but only provided that they do not overlap with existing measures and initiatives such as measures on the reintegration of long-term disabled persons. I do not think it is a good idea to take a plethora of measures which all pursue the same goal, but which are mutually inconsistent and even overlapping. Moreover, it is also important to ensure that certain measures do not enter the area of competence of the Länder, for example the tailor-made companies in Flanders and the contrats d'adaptation professionelle (CAP) in Wallonia. I therefore believe that the adoption of additional measures can only take place after thorough consultation with the social partners. This is also what the Council of State recommends in its opinion on the labour integration jobs bill, as well as the social partners within the National Labour Council in its Opinion No. 2,162 of 28 April 2020 unanimously rejected the proposed legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I hope that it will not only be the study of the vulnerable professions, but that real action will be taken. The current system of flexi-jobbers caters almost exclusively to a series of employers. In our view, the extension of the system initially envisaged cannot be envisaged. It undermines social security on both sides. In addition, people entering this system need to be much better informed. I might say it a little cynical now, but in fact it should be on their paycheck: 'Thank you for your work contribution, but you will not get the right to unemployment or pension with this'. At least those people will know where they stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u89	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have to say again that only part of my question was answered. I find it just interesting to draw the findings about corona also beyond corona, to learn lessons after corona. A number of existing contradictions have been highlighted by the crisis and the evaluation of the forms of contract is a very important part of the coalition agreement. I referred to day contracts and the platform economy in my question. I didn't really get an answer to that, but to the particle about flexi-jobbers. I think we're on the same page there. We have always warned against the danger that ordinary employment would be replaced by flexi-jobs. The Court of Auditors confirms that this is the case for a large piece, more than a third. That seems very problematic to me. I agree with you that we should not adopt amalgamation measures, which threaten to overlap or even counter each other, or which could counteract certain objectives of the coalition agreement. I am still a little hungry for the global exercise on the various forms of contract and other categories that I have raised in my question, but which I have not really received an answer to. We'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u90	Mrs Van Bossuyt, we fully endorse a number of points in the non-paper of Austria, Bulgaria, Denmark and eight other Member States. For example, the creation of qualitative jobs is of course very important to reverse the negative social consequences of the crisis and to accelerate the green and digital transition. We need to move faster because of the pandemic and the green and digital transition that is coming. We are not going through so much a crisis as a radical change in society. One of the ways in which the Heads of State or Government will highlight the need for this is to endorse the European Commission's new objectives. From this point of view, the Porto Social Summit came at the right time and the summit should be used to give concrete substance to the 20 principles of the European Pillar of Social Rights. The principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are essential. They must strengthen the European project, not weaken it. Belgium and Spain wanted to use the Summit in Porto to continue and place governance on the agenda in the light of the relance after corona. There are four essential elements. Firstly, when reviewing the Stability and Growth Pact, we must ensure that we create a favourable environment for productive investment, including social and social protection. Secondly, we want upward social convergence. Social competition between Member States must stop. To this end, a minimum of conditions for fair competition should be introduced. In the near future, we must concentrate on a number of legislative initiatives, particularly in the context of digitalisation, health and the right to lifelong learning for workers of all ages. Thirdly, together with Spain, we are proposing to launch a new reflection exercise on a warning mechanism that can signal major social imbalances within or between the 27 Member States. Our political objective is to anticipate social issues as well as the macro-economic situation, and above all we want to ensure that the corrections to macroeconomic imbalances are not at the root of new social imbalances. Finally, the discussion on the future of the Stability and Growth Pact is central to the restoration of balance, which I have just mentioned. The results of the Porto Summit are now available. Anyone can do their analysis. Personally, I believe that the summit and its conclusions will remain an important step in building a more social Europe. Belgium still has a lot of work ahead of it in view of its presidency of the European Union in 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u91	I certainly welcome certain things. Your statement that subsidiarity and proportionality must be taken into account is important. The application of these principles is, of course, based on the division of powers, as laid down in the Treaties. But the question here is whether or not additional powers should be transferred to Europe. You didn't answer that question explicitly. I understand from your answer that you tend to say yes, and that is one of the reasons why Belgium was not one of the signatories of the non-paper drawn up by countries such as Denmark, Estonia and Finland. I'm a little worried about that. You say that together with Spain you are advocating minimum standards. Are you calling for a European minimum wage? I can see you laughing, but not noding or noding. I suppose so. Apart from that, I think it is important that such matters are not decided at European level. There are so many differences between Member States in the field of social policy. How, for example, would labour market policy be regulated? Each Member State is closest to its citizens, and that is why there is the principle of subsidiarity. Therefore, the legislation should also be drawn up for the level for which it is most appropriate. Is Europe supposed to decide how many crèches there should be in each country? In the Scandinavian countries it is chosen to stay home longer. It is not unusual for mothers to be at home for a year after giving birth, but in our country that is not the custom, so it seems logical that there is a greater need for crèches. When such matters are decided at European level, an important means is taken out of the hands of the Member States. I'd like to warn you about that. Social policy is a policy to be defined by the Member States. Europe can act in support of this; it seems to me that the transfer of more powers to Europe is too far away.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u92	Madam President, Minister, even today, professional spaces do not escape sexist practices. According to a survey conducted by JUMP among Belgian and French women, 94% of them report having experienced sexism in a professional setting: - 8 out of 10 women had to deal with condescendence during verbal exchanges with their male colleagues and/or invisibilization practices in meeting spaces; - 7 out of 10 women have been subjected to intrusive and/or inappropriate comments on their appearance or privacy, as well as inappropriate looks and/or gestures; - 1 in 2 women suffered sexist jokes and 1 in 5 women suffered physical violence. It is important to point out that 80 per cent of victims of sexism at work did not have the courage to report the events they suffered, for fear of reprisals or for fear of not being taken seriously. Their concerns are well-founded, as 95 per cent of women who have denounced gender-based practices have subsequently lost their jobs. Minister, sexism is a daily reality in many businesses, mainly because of the difficulty in clearly identifying this problem. However, it should not be taken lightly, since gender discrimination in the workplace had a real impact on the physical and mental health of the women who were the target of it. What are you considering as preventive measures to increase awareness of gender-based behaviour in the workplace, and to ensure that employees are protected from such practices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u93	Madam Member, the purpose of the Sexism Act 2014 is, as you know, to punish all forms of sexual harassment in public places. For the purposes of this Act, sexism is defined as any act or behaviour that is clearly intended to express contempt for a person on account of his or her sexual affiliation or to treat him or her for the same reason as inferior or reduced to his or her sexual dimension, and which results in a serious violation of his or her dignity. The law against sexism refers to street harassment per se but could also be applied to acts of sexual harassment committed in other public places or at work. Of course, for the prevention and punishment of acts of harassment, the system of well-being at work is also fully applicable. It is important to stress that with this system, various protections have been put in place to allow people who feel they are victims of violence or moral or sexual harassment at work to dare to expose their situation without fear of reprisals in their employment situation. It should also be recalled that the process of ratification of ILO Convention No. 190 is still under way. It is an ambitious tool to set a framework for an inclusive and integrated approach to prevent and eliminate abusive behaviour of violence and harassment in the workplace, both formal and informal, and for all workers, regardless of their status. I will certainly ensure that these tools can be used more widely, especially by women workers who are victims of gender-based behaviour. With the social partners, it would be useful to launch specific awareness-raising work on this subject. We'll do it in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u94	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. Sexism did indeed remain present during this pandemic. This can be seen today in international studies which point out that 45 per cent of women find it difficult to speak during virtual meetings, in particular because of interruptions on the part of their male colleagues or lengthy explanations that shorten women's overall speaking time. That is to be emphasized. You say that you want to consult the social partners in a few weeks to start awareness-raising work quickly. This is a good thing because, although this law exists, there are still many abuses on the part of the male gentleman. So I will not fail to return to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u95	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lanjri would like to invert the order of her questions Nos 55017216C and 55017823C, because we will not reach this last point today. Do you all agree? Is it right for you, minister, if we are working in this way, on an exceptional basis? We will see if this exercise is feasible for future meetings. Is this suitable for everyone? All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u96	Mr Minister, the debate on long-term sick and workable work is very sensitive to me, given my past in the trade union, but also because we held a number of hearings last week, which included some experts from experience from the field. The explanation we got from them has shocked me a bit. In 2019 there are half fewer bridge pensioners than in 2012. In absolute figures, the number evolves from about 115,000 to 57,000, a decrease of almost 58,000 units. At the same time, the number of long-term patients aged 55-64 is increasing from 110,000 to 184 000, an increase of nearly 74 000. In other words, for each bridge-retired less, at least one long-term sick person was added. The abolition of a social right has therefore not simply brought about a change in social reality. People who have been completely refurbished or burned up are looking for ways out. The various sectors of social security are communicative vessels, as it turns out. Therefore, it is important to invest in systems that keep the workable. The Government Agreement provides for measures on end-of-life arrangements. Mr. Secretary, will you work on runways from 55 years old? What is the status of the SWT from 58 years of age in the Ipa negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u97	Mr Colebunders, the comparison of the number of unemployed with a company supplement between 2012 and 2019 shows a downward trend. There is an increase in the number of people with a long-term illness with a duration of more than one year. I can confirm that the government has invited the Group of Ten to continue the negotiations on this end-of-life issue. The members of the Group of Ten accepted that offer. In addition, the social partners will also be involved in the preparation of the Employment Conference to be held in September on this subject. This year's conference deals with harmonious career ends. As part of the preparations for the conference, the Group of 10 was asked to give its opinion on this subject, both on what they consider to be the greatest challenges and on the most appropriate measures to be taken to meet these challenges. The aim is to ensure that careers do not force older workers to retire early. The contribution of the Group of 10 is expected by mid-July.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u98	Minister, that was a quick explanation. I'm glad I'm not an interpreter. It is clear that, especially in the 55+ age group, people are tired. Now you and your colleagues give the opportunity to thank these people who are on and who are long-term ill by way of speaking for free. Years of work on the assembly line, in construction, in a rest home, or you name it, just doesn't count anymore. It is clear that those people used to have a safety net in the form of the bridge pension or the SWT. Now they don't. The only safety net these people have left is being absent for a long time and sick. That's not a gift for those people. It is quite clear that a solution must be found for this group of people. Let us be honest, integration is nice, and we are showing off when we have found someone who we have been able to offer another job, but that is not the way we deal with people who have worked hard day in day out for the added value of the company where they have worked and have been forced out. At a time when they would then be able to go on a bridge pension, these people are now simply being thrown out like the big house garbage. I would therefore like to ask you once again to find a solution for these people so that these people can end their careers in a dignified manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u99	Minister, I have to make some adjustments to my questions because an agreement has finally been reached. That is good because the reform of this statute, which has not been amended since 1983, has long been delayed. The final measure is not yet fully in sight and improvements in social protection and training still need to be made. Could you explain that a little more? For example, the pension scheme still needs to be worked out and unemployment benefits are not yet fully regulated. What are the next steps of the government in this phase II, as Minister Vandenbroucke calls them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u100	There are currently discussions between the social partners in the sector to improve the situation of doctors in training. One part of this is the development of a good record of working hours, which I consider essential. The proposal put forward by the hospital federations is part of the ongoing negotiations within the National Joint Commission. On Monday 19 May an agreement was reached on several improvements to the situation of doctors-specialists in training. However, the Cimacs represented by the French Community found this insufficient and started collective action. In the meantime, the further closure has been cancelled thanks to an agreement reached yesterday in cooperation with Minister Vandenbroucke's cabinet. As you know, the Social Criminal Code allows the communication of information. This is compulsory even if requested, unless the information was obtained during the exercise of duties prescribed by the judicial authorities. In that case, the information may only be communicated subject to express authorisation. With regard to the checks, I can inform you that the Inspectorate for the Supervision of Social Laws is responsible for monitoring compliance with the provisions of the Law of 12 December 2010 on the working hours of doctors, dentists, veterinarians, candidate doctors in training, candidate dental practitioners in training and student trainees preparing for the pursuit of these professions. The Monitoring of Social Laws has already carried out a number of checks in the past, either in response to a complaint or at the request of the employment officer. This will continue to happen in the future. Finally, you know that the right to maternity leave is granted by Article 30 (1) of the Law of 3 July 1978 on contracts of employment. This means that one has to be an employee in order to be able to claim birth leave. Whether a doctor-specialist in training is an employee is a question that cannot be answered in abstracto. If the person concerned does his/her work under the authority of an internship master or of a hospital in which he/she is employed, he/she shall have the status of an employee. This is a matter of fact, the final assessment of which ultimately lies with the court.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u101	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is true that an important first step has been taken, but there are still many outstanding issues that require a second step. We also have Mr Vandenbroucke for a very long time in front of me on this matter last week. Especially with you, I want to insist...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u102	Mrs Muylle, the connection seems very bad. We lost you. Is it possible to send a message to Mrs Muylle in the cat in order to warn her that she was lost? In the meantime, I give the floor to Mrs Samyn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u103	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply and the additions to Mr Vandenbroucke's replies last week. There was and still needs to be an improvement in the status of doctors-specialists in training. A step has been taken in the right direction. With the agreement, a stone has already been moved into the river, but some steps still need to be taken. I hope you will work on this with the other competent ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u104	Minister, last year I asked for the controls to be stepped up. I know you did. A few weeks ago, you replied to me that there were other priorities due to corona, with full understanding. However, I am concerned by the figures from the checks you gave me. We see a whole bunch of hospitals weren't okay. We see that there was regularisation for a large amount, more than 300,000 euros for a small 3,000 students. That means there's something really going on. I hope that we will continue to follow this dossier very closely from both Health and the Department of Work, so that there is proper treatment of the specialists in training and this can be done correctly. Many of us have initiatives ready for the second step, so hopefully they will be there soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u105	Question No 16973C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question at her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u106	Mrs Thémont, as part of the modernisation and improvement of the performance of the public service, the administration of the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation is currently working on the development of a multi-annual inspection programme for social inspections, monitoring of social laws and monitoring of well-being at work. This multi-year inspection program is based on a scientifically sound methodology and will include proactive planning of the priority areas to be inspected and the number of inspections to be carried out in each of these areas. In determining the priority of these sectors, consideration is given, inter alia, to the incidence rate of accidents at work relative to the cross-sectoral average. As part of inspection planning, DG Occupational Well-Being has for many years been planning national and local inspection campaigns, focusing on sectors with an increased risk of occupational injury, occupational disease or psychosocial burden caused by work. The intention is to use such a campaign to draw lasting attention to prevention policy in the sector. In addition, there are numerous awareness-raising campaigns, information sessions organised by DG Humanisation du travail, and the development and promotion of risk assessment tools, including online risk assessment tools. For more information, I refer you to the BeSWIC website, the Belgian Knowledge Centre on well-being at work, where all these initiatives are listed. I would also like to refer to the cooperation protocol my department has concluded with the social partners, in order to promote the prevention and reduction of accidents at work and occupational diseases in a number of sectors, including construction, agriculture and horticulture. The aim is to bring all actors together in a single platform, through a structural consultation, in order to set up joint campaigns, actions and projects and to develop and disseminate codes of practice. Finally, I would also like to mention the renewed cooperation protocol, which was concluded on 5 October 2020 between the Federal Occupational Risk Agency (Fedris) and the Employment FPS. This protocol replaces the two previous protocols concluded with the former Workers' Compensation Fund and the Occupational Diseases Fund respectively. The intention is to promote synergy between the two institutions and to harmonize action in common areas as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u107	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. I note that there is a public service organization with an inspection program, on which you are currently working through proactive planning. That answers my question. I was wondering if more campaigns would take place. You replied that there was a cooperation protocol with the social partners, and that more campaigns would take place. I'll come back to you for the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u108	Madam President, Minister, at the Ministerial Council of 30 April 2021, on the advice of the NAR, your proposal was adopted to suspend the submission of new projects aimed at primary prevention of burn-out at work. The National Labour Council, in its motivation, refers to the very changed way of working on the work floor through the many telework. Can you explain the reasons behind this prevention? When will you take the initiative to restart prevention, in particular to deal with the consequences of the large number of telework and the associated burn-outs? What is the budgetary impact of this measure, as prevention is stopped, but employers continue to pay the contribution? Do you have additional figures on the number of people currently facing burn-out? What is the evolution in these figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u109	Following the health crisis, an additional deadline was granted in 2020 to experts for the evaluation of projects submitted in 2018 and to employers and sectors for the implementation of projects submitted in 2019. It was also decided not to launch a new cycle in 2021 due to the corona crisis. The social partners in the National Labour Council believe that the current situation is still not conducive to the implementation of such projects in enterprises, given the changes in their work organisation, the uncertainty about the duration of the mandatory home working period and the suspension of activities in certain sectors. Therefore, on the basis of the opinion of the National Labour Council, the submission of new projects will also be suspended for 2021. This initiative will be restarted when the social partners in the National Labour Council consider that the conditions for this are in place. The social partners are preparing a new call for projects on innovative work organisation and their impact on well-being at work. In principle, telework should be included in this new initiative. Finally, we are working with my colleagues in the government on a federal action plan to prevent stress at work, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 25 March 2021, as you know. There is no budgetary impact. The projects are financed by the employer's contribution of 0.10 % for the risk groups coming from sectors which have not closed sector-cao for the risk professions. For the figures, I would like to refer you to my colleague, Minister Vandenbroucke, who is responsible for Social Affairs and RIZIV.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u110	Madam President, Minister, I still think it is a little bit strange to reduce the project, as we know from all sides that the risk of burn-out has increased considerably through teleworking. I understand you will take other measures. I very much hope so, because instead of reacting proactively now, you are putting a stop to this prevention. However, the figures of long-term disability have increased dramatically in recent years and a growing proportion is due to work-related burn-outs. For us, immediate initiatives can be taken to tackle covid-related disability. After all, it is well known that the longer the duration of incapacity for work, the less likely it is that people will find their way back to the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u111	The cheques in question are issued by private companies and are considered by the government as an advantage exempt from social contributions and taxes if the conditions laid down in the Royal Decree on Social Security and the Income Tax Code of 1992. Changes to the KB are followed by the FPS Social Security Office; for the fiscal part this is done by the FPS Finance Office. A more detailed answer to the last questions can be found in the answer to your written question, No. 248. The social partners, united in the NAR, expressed their views on your legislative proposal No. 1091, asking the issuing companies of meal and ecocheques to pay the amounts of unused cheques to the Belgian Federation of Food Banks. In this unanimous opinion, the social partners advocated structural solutions for the financing of food distribution. They also stress that the first objective must be to counter non-take-up. In this sense, they call for the necessary steps to be taken, as in the case of meal cheques, to introduce mandatory digitisation for ecocheques. The necessary regulatory initiative is being developed together with my colleague, the Minister for Social Affairs, according to the information we have at our disposal and is being implemented in accordance with the mentioned articles of the programme law. We do not have any figures available on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u112	Minister, I would like to ask you a number of questions about the follow-up to my bill, which was finally adopted in December through an amendment to the programme law. What was the problem? A large number of cheques were not collected, in total for more than 5 million euros on an annual basis. Fortunately, in view of the corona crisis, we have extended the validity of the cheques for a number of months, but that has not happened for January, February, July, August, September and October. How far are the issuing offices with the reissue of those checks? The total amount involved is EUR 2.9 million. If the same happens in 2020, we are talking about 1.5 million in unused paper ecocheques. It is therefore also important that there should be effective re-release without delay. I'm worried about that anyway. Secondly, an opinion has indeed been issued to ensure that cheques will also be published electronically in the future. I'm glad you're working on it. When will we see your draft law on this in Parliament? The situation must not be repeated. Thirdly, we need to check whether what we decided in December is being effectively implemented. I note that this is not yet the case for the paper ecocheques. I would ask you to deal with the problem together with the social partners and to ensure that workers receive what they lost in cheques, as decided in Parliament last December. I hope you will work on this and will certainly come back to this. I noted that you did not fully understand my written question, because you were referring to the extension of the validity of the cheques. In my question, however, I referred to the lapsed cheques. We must ensure that the lapsed cheques are reissued and delivered to the workers, as we agreed on in December. This has only happened for one piece, namely for electronic cheques, but not for paper cheques. I fear there might be problems if you or the FOD do not intervene now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u113	Questions Nos 17216C and 17823C by Mrs Nahima Lanjri are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Segers' 55017240C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u114	Madam President, Mrs Willaert, the answer to your question contains a series of figures which I will not list here, but I will give you the tables. Access to the protection allowance is reserved for unemployed persons who have been removed from the labour market because of a combination of psychological, medical and social factors which permanently affect their health and/or social involvement or because of a permanent incapacity of at least 33%, recognised by an approved doctor of the RVA. The arrangement is federal. It is therefore up to the RVA to regulate this in accordance with the provisions of the law and on the basis of the data of the regional institutions. The RVA notes that jobseekers were recognised as unattractive while they were working part-time or even full-time, which is not in line with the definition of an unattractive job seeker. For example, on the basis of the payments for the months November 2020 to January 2021, it appears that a number of persons entitled to an integration allowance still received an income guarantee benefit as unattractive job seekers. They were recognized during part-time employment. The figures can be found in Table 5 which I will deliver to you. These are persons who have been recognized as non-admissible jobseekers but who have not yet joined the system of protection benefits because they are still in an extension of the extended basic right to benefits for part-time work, Article 63, paragraph 2, paragraph 4, 2° of the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 on unemployment regulations. This is problematic because they are recognised as unattractive jobseekers as unavailable to the labour market, while availability is precisely a basic condition for granting the income guarantee benefit. The RVA has asked the regional institutions to examine these accreditations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u115	Minister, I will look very closely at the figures you will give me. It is indeed a problematic observation and we need to see how this can be done. It doesn't seem right at all to me. I think it is a good thing that we come across the problem fairly early and I look forward to the solution that will be offered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u116	Question No 17480C by Mr Colebunders has been transformed into a written question. I propose that we move on to the next, which was a joint question on social dumping in the road transport sector. Ms. Moscufo told me to make the issues on which she was absent moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u117	Madam President, I can still stay with you for a quarter of an hour, until about 5:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u118	Let's do this. Let's go as far as we can. Colleagues, I already invite you to prepare the numbers of the questions you wish to turn into written questions. In this way, we lighten the agenda for the next sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u119	Ms. Nadia Moscufo's question 55017610C is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u120	Mrs Thémont, with a view to tackling the problems of the transport sector, a tripartite consultation has been set up between the politicians, the SIRS and the social partners. It led in 2016 to a plan for fair competition in this sector. This plan includes concrete measures to combat social fraud and social dumping. One of these was the conclusion in 2016 of a partnership agreement with the sector. Within the framework of this partnership agreement, SIRS organises regular follow-up meetings with the various stakeholders. The last meeting took place last March. We are aware that the transport sector is confronted with the phenomenon that you mentioned in your questions, but also with many other forms of fraud. This is why, in its Action Plan 2021, SIRS also defined 900 controls to be carried out in the transport sector. These checks are carried out jointly by the various social inspection services with the possible involvement of regional inspections for regionalised subjects, the police and the inspection service of the Mobility SPF. Together with my colleagues in charge of SIRS and the Minister for Mobility, I am examining whether the specific road transport action plan which provides for joint inspections should be adapted in the light of this regionalisation. The extension to the relevant inspection services at regional level is a point of attention, as is the optimisation of the management and consultation of the checks to be carried out. I'll give you the balance sheet. There will be two annexes to my reply, including a review of the actions taken from 2018 to 10 May 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u121	Minister, thank you. Indeed, in my view, these road companies benefit from wage differences between the countries of the European Union in order to make maximum profits by paying a minimum of social and employer charges. The losers of this situation are the workers who suffer from difficult working conditions each time. I take note of the various checks carried out. I'll pay attention to the balance sheet you're going to pass on to me. I will analyse the actions carried out between 2018 and 2021. If that happens, I'll come back and ask you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u122	We come to the question No. 55017612C by Mrs Vanrobaeys on vaccination leave for domestic helpers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u123	Madam President, Minister, in my opinion I have already received an answer to my question on the question of the black book. That answer was sufficient. I would therefore like to move on to the following question on the statement by the social partners on teleworking, referring to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u124	As regards the Minutes, I would point out that the question is considered to be answered by Mrs Vanrobaeys.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u125	Minister, we have talked a great many times about the return day and the postponement of it. The social partners have agreed on this, both in the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work and in the National Labour Council. They have also attached seven conditions for psychosocial well-being and agreements to be made on the workplace, for example on diseases, meals and movements. In the meantime, the Consultation Committee has announced two steps. From 9 June, telework is still mandatory, but 20% of staff may return for a return day. From 1 July telework is no longer mandatory, but still recommended, and testing remains recommended. How should I understand the statement made by the social partners, given the decisions of the Consultative Committee? What measures will you take in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u126	Mrs Muylle, Mrs Vanrobaeys, I believe that the declaration by the social partners provides a clear and very complete framework for the safe organisation of such voluntary returns. It is also a vision shared by all the social partners of both the NAR and the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work. Once the decision of the Consultation Committee of 11 May 2021 on the return times has been transposed into regulation, the inspectors of the social inspection services will monitor the obligation. As with any modification of the MB, a Joint Working Group, led by an official of the SIOD, will update the procedure for maintaining the corona measures, the checklist, and the alert form in accordance with the changes made to the MB. The proposal of adaptation will then be submitted for validation to the SIOD Strategic Committee. Once the proposal has been ratified, the amended procedure will be delivered by the leading officials of the inspection services to all social inspectors. This ensures a uniform approach to the enforcement policy on corona. Both my predecessor, Mrs Muylle, and I myself have repeatedly asked the social partners in the NAR to evaluate the existing framework on telework and to assess the need for additional rules or initiatives. By letter dated 10 November 2020, the Group of Ten replied that an evaluation exercise is under way. The social partners intend, if necessary or appropriate, to adapt existing legal instruments. I therefore assume that we can expect an opinion from the social partners on this. However, I do not have more information on timing or current state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u127	Madam President, Minister, thank you for reconsidering what this means in terms of enforcement. This is good. In this respect, last year's guide is still the guide. The latter can always pass the test at the time of checks. Of course, the follow-up path remains important. There's an advice now. I hope, along with you, that people will get to work now. There is now a temporary framework for teleworking. We all hope that parts will continue to exist. I see that many companies and sectors are taking initiatives in this area. Together with you, I hope that we will come up with a framework that can give more perspective in the longer term and that the good things about teleworking will be preserved. So be sure to continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u128	Madam President, Minister, the challenge will be enforcement, especially in that first phase of return. We must ensure that the rules in these statements by the social partners are complied with. This is important for everyone's health and safety. I also understand that everyone is rebreathing because of the prospect of those return days. Everyone misses the coffee break with the colleagues. It is therefore important that, if the health situation allows it, we allow it. Then I come to the structural framework. I have also indicated a number of chalk lines myself. For us, the right to deconnection and proper remuneration, including office equipment, is important. These are important lessons to be learned from the corona crisis. People have sometimes, often with a lot of improvisation, borne all the costs for a year. That should not be the intention in a structural framework. Then there'll be employees dropping out, too. If we want to make telework a good thing, that is one of the elements on which we must work. I do have some questions about that temporary collective agreement. It states that it is valid until the end of December, but actually it states that it is valid as long as there is mandatory or recommended telework. I think that's right now: until September 1st. Of course, that can still change. I would urge you to ask the social partners to continue with their advice on structural teleworking so that between two periods one does not fall into a gap. I do see a number of advantages in teleworking. If we want to make further use of these advantages, it will be important to regulate telework properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u129	Madam Member, a number of decisions have indeed been handed down by the courts and tribunals concerning changes in the regulation of insertion allowances in the light of the standstill principle. It should be stressed that not all decisions are in the same direction. Some are in favour of social insurance, while others are not. In each case, as you know, the judge examines whether the legal provisions were applied before making his decision. It is not for me to comment on court decisions, either positively or negatively, you know that this is a principle for me. I am particularly committed to respect for judicial decisions and, as a minister and as a parliamentarian, to the principle of separation of powers. This is an essential element of the rule of law and a pillar of our democracy. It is in this sense that I have asked ONEM to apply systematically the judicial decisions that have been handed down, and to stop systematically appealing the decisions handed down at first instance, now that the case law is known and has stabilized, in particular following a judgment of the Court of Cassation. I believe that final decisions must be taken as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic488x.u130	Minister, thank you. You are saying that decisions are in different directions. However, you are asking the ONEM to no longer appeal and implement decisions, whose case law is more in line with the standstill, i.e. the recovery of rights for those who have just been deprived of them. Indeed, there is no comment on a court decision, but today you find yourself with legislation that needs to be clarified and improved. Otherwise, it could be applied differently depending on whether the person appears before a court to assert his or her right or does not appear before a court. In this case, it is really all this disconnection of social protection that is being called into question, and it is no longer the trade unions that say it, but the courts. You say that you are asking the Forem to respect the decisions of these courts and no longer go to appeal, and therefore to accept this principle of standstill and to maintain a better level of protection. I think that today you no longer have a choice: you have to change the law and it is a court that tells you that. In any case, the Ecolo-Groen Group will support you in your efforts to improve the social protection of unemployed people and the situation of the standstill.
