ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic541x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament 55018508C by Mrs Rohonyi will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic541x.u2	Madam Minister, unfortunately the percentage of people with disabilities working in the government is falling year after year, whereas this should increase to 3%. That is a problematic evolution, because you will agree with me that the government should set an example. In 2019, there was only 1.22% of disabled people according to the 2019 evaluation report of the Guidance Committee for the Recruitment of Persons with Disabilities in the Federal Public Service (BCAPH). Since 2016, there has been a decrease in the employment of people with disabilities. At that time the percentage was still 1.44 %, but in 2019 it was even lower. I already asked you a question in April 2021 about the registration system of the runway contracts, in particular about the flow of young people with disabilities with a runway contract to a contractual or statutory position. You said, however, that registration is not yet ready. The field of work indicates that the main problem is a lack of adapted work, but also a lack of adapted testing. In Selor, for example, there are only generic tests. Those tests are formally adapted though one can ask for a larger screen and a custom seat, but the content doesn't change anything. So we are testing generic competences and not so much the competences that are needed precisely for the function that the person concerned would perform, which means that a lot of people fall out of the boat. The BCAPH has therefore drawn up a number of recommendations in its evaluation report. You mentioned earlier that a number of agencies, BCAPH, DG Recruitment and Development, Selor, FOD BOSA, are investigating the possibility of linking data from the Crossroads Bank of Social Security to personnel data from the federal administrative public office to refine the count, but I said at that time that a better count will not be enough. In addition to counting and refining it, I also wonder what actions you will take to ensure that the federal government achieves at least that 3%. How will you optimise recruitment procedures for people with disabilities? I refer to the many good proposals made by the Guidance Committee. In the report of the Guidance Committee, it proposes to launch an annual awareness campaign to promote the employment of people with disabilities, and to organise this for all employees and management, with the support of the Federal Diversity Network. Do you intend to respond to this and other recommendations? Do you also intend to systematically charge the evaluation reports of the Guidance Committee? I can tell you, Madam Minister, that a number of people from the field of work who are on this Guidance Committee are going to drop out because they believe that politics is not doing anything with its recommendations. They are in the middle of it and have been making recommendations for years, and they note that nothing or almost nothing is being done about it. That is why I hope you will take this to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic541x.u3	Mrs Lanjri, thank you for this very important question. I can confirm that the services under my jurisdiction have thoroughly examined the possibility of cooperating with the Crossroads Bank of Social Security on the basis of the current rules. However, it has shown that the intended effect, i.e. better counting under the current rules, would be insufficient, because the data are only limited. That is why they are continuing to reflect on this issue. So we're not gonna stop, we're gonna think about how to fix that. As regards the optimisation of recruitment procedures for people with disabilities, I would like to emphasise that inclusion is and remains the most important principle. An example of this is the existing reasonable adjustments of test procedures, which are ensured for all types of selection procedures of the FOD BOSA. An additional selection channel for people with disabilities with a view to permanent employment could also work and is certainly worth investigating. The federal selection practice naturally also evolves with time, with the labour market and with the needs of employers. For example, there is already more variation in the use of the PC tests in a first trial and in the selection steps in general, for example online interviews. This could create additional opportunities for disabled applicants. As regards the annual awareness actions, I can confirm that a session will also take place in 2021. The FOD BOSA is currently preparing to organise an information session for higher education institutions that, for example, accompany senior students or disabled alumni to work. The aim is to promote the federal government as an inclusive employer. The sessions provide information on the range of interesting and socially meaningful jobs offered by the federal administrations and on the reasonable adjustments to selection procedures and the priority scheme for disabled applicants. I can also tell you that the President of the Federal Diversity Network is well aware of this initiative. I would also like to point out that the services with the action, in cooperation with universities and colleges of applied sciences, respond to one of the BCAPH's recommendations to encourage the influx of young staff with disabilities. Finally, when designing and implementing the new employer brand strategy, specific attention will also be paid to the use of specific communication channels to reach that target group. I will not fail to take note of the evaluation reports of the BCAPH and the recommendations of the annual report of the BCAPH, which can serve as inspiration. By the way, my policy cell is invited to every working meeting of the BCAPH by the FOD BOSA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic541x.u4	Madam Secretary, it is good that you take the matter to heart. Inclusion is indeed the most important word. The federal government cannot ask private employers to make efforts to recruit people with disabilities if they do not do so themselves. So we must at least set an example ourselves. I am pleased that you want to take a number of initiatives to raise awareness, but I would like to stress two things. Firstly, the reasonable adjustments in job interviews or in the Selor tests are really not enough. We need to go back much more to what people used to do with tailor-made jobs. There are a lot of jobs that people with disabilities can do perfectly, but generic tests are not always suitable for them. For example, someone who can perfectly do the work of an IT person is not always someone who has the social skills to serve people at the reception. So we need to test what we need to test. Those people will do their job well. One should not lower the bar, but not raise it by organising tests where one has to perform well in all kinds of areas and not just in those areas that are relevant to a particular job. I hope that you will investigate this and that you will do so. Secondly, it's a good thing you're working with the universities. The evaluation reports of the Guidance Committee must be taken seriously. There's a lot in it. Let this not just be an inspiration, but also try to implement those recommendations, unless there are arguments for not doing something. Not everything can always be done. There must be at least arguments as to why a recommendation of the Guidance Committee may not be followed. After all, the government set up that body itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic541x.u5	Mr President, Minister, we know that when the capital is used up in sick days, the official is in so-called disponibility. An answer to my written question shows that disponibility increased in 2020 compared to 2019. We are talking about approximately 246.000 disease days in 2020, compared to about 188.000 disease days in 2019. A number of FPS jumps out. Medex's most recent report on absenteeism in federal officials shows that the general absenteeism in 2019 was fortunately stabilised compared to 2018. Unfortunately, however, it remains high. Unfortunately, the number of absentees for more than a year is increasing. A policy of returning long-term ill workers to the workplace is, of course, important. You know the problems: stress-related psychological problems and locomotor problems. There are, of course, the reintegration projects and internal mobility, which you also want to use. However, we must do more about it. I had the following questions. Do you have an explanation for the increases in the number of days of disponibility among federal officials in 2020 compared to 2019? How do you explain the outliers at certain FPS? Can you give me a general picture of the number of civil servants in 2019 and 2020 that is in disponibility? How much of the waiting fee received is equal to 60 % of the last activity wager? How much of the waiting fee received is equal to 100 % due to long-term illness? As part of the Federal Action Plan on Mental Resilience at Work, I would like to know the following. What actions do you specifically want to take in the context of the reintegration policy of federal officials, apart from the action plan that has already been presented to the Council of Ministers on 25 March 2021? I would have liked to have seen something more concrete. In what way will you possibly try to improve this? In the meantime, we're a few months later. Could you give an update on the disability managers if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic541x.u6	Mrs Goethals and Mrs Lanjri, thank you for this important question. As far as the improvement of the federal government's reintegration policy is concerned, I can first of all confirm that, unfortunately, the current system of formal reintegration does not always lead to the desired results. We shall agree on that. Therefore, existing measures and their reform are currently being critically examined in consultation with relevant stakeholders, including staff directors P&D, the social partners, but also actors such as Medex, prevention advisors, etc. The aim is to make recommendations on the adjustments to the current systems in order to improve guidance and the possibilities for successful reintegration. Ideally, there is a need to examine the possibilities outside, either in their own position or with their own employer. Moreover, this is done in consultation with my colleague, the Minister for Health and Social Affairs, so that one federal policy on burn-out and reintegration is developed. In this way, on the one hand, the existing fragmentation according to the status of the official should be partially addressed, and on the other hand, this should lead to greater coherence with the approach taken outside the federal government. In addition, the aim of the analysis is to identify a number of thresholds and to eliminate regulations on, for example, reduced performance, part-time work, presence policy and mobility, as well as a more coherent policy of resumption of work in each department, without affecting the specificity of each department itself. In addition, it examines the possible improvements in support through career guidance and reorientation, communication both during and after absence, and training. Finally, it also looks at the possibilities of taking certain actions in the process of successful integration, in consultation with the person concerned, during the absence. All these things actually make an offer to the official with the aim of increasing self-reliance in order to achieve successful and sustainable reintegration. The reduction in the average duration of absence may be a beneficial side effect, but this is not the main objective. Experience has shown that the pursuit of a reduction in average duration as an end in itself can lead to pressure on sick workers, which could have exactly the opposite effect. As far as sickness pensions are concerned, there is, of course, consultation with my colleague, who is responsible for pensions. It is our common ambition to avoid putting civil servants with capacities and competences into retirement. At the moment, this dossier is in the analysis phase of the possibilities. I can also confirm that the proposal for a sectoral agreement will provide for a record of reintegration and the resumption of work after long absence due to illness. Mrs Goethals, as far as your question on figures is concerned, I can inform you that the very short time period for replying to your oral question does not allow me to obtain all the figures requested. You yourself referred to your written question No. 145 on disponibility. More specifically about the increase in the number of days of disponibility in the FPS Justice and the FPS Finance, those services themselves should be questioned. I don't just have those numbers. At this short time, I cannot give you a state of affairs regarding the disability managers, as this again implies a questioning of the various FPS. We can do that, that's not the problem, but I don't have that data today. Moreover, an overview of these figures, and a general picture of the disponibility, as you requested, actually also requires a qualitative examination of the absenteeism of federal officials by the year 2020. Medex's 2021 absenteeism report, which refers to the figures for 2020, is expected shortly. I hope that we will be able to get figures from that report which answer your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic541x.u7	Madam Minister, here too, the government must set an example. Here too, the government must ensure that officials who have been ill for a long time and return to work receive a reintegration path. We hear from people in the field that this is not happening. This may be on paper, but in practice it remains the dead letter. This can't be happening. This is not only a waste of talent, it also costs us handfuls of money. It is not the intention to send people who can still work, provided they have an adapted route, to retire; however, what is happening today. It is good that this is being done. You say that this is being investigated, like the sickness pension. This is now being discussed with the Minister for Pensions. I note, however, that in September we will have to come up with the global pension reform. It is therefore high time that the reflections and analyses were completed so that we could go to the pension reform in September with concrete proposals. Madam Minister, I hope that the Committee B, where sectoral discussions have been launched, will also be involved in the reintegration projects, I assume. I look forward to September, to the meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs or of this committee, to talk again about the reintegration of long-term ill officials. For us, every talent counts. People who have been out for some time should also be given the opportunity to resume work, provided that a reintegration process is in place. This cannot remain a dead letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic541x.u8	Madam Minister, it is always good to make an analysis before action is taken. I'm kind of hungry, in the sense that I haven't heard any time span. I asked this question earlier, and you said that you would analyse it together with the other ministers and the social partners. However, we are still in the analysis phase, so I do not get any concrete answers on the objectives or an action plan. I am somewhat sorry about that. I understand, of course, that you cannot give me the figures in this short term, which is why I asked for a general picture. However, I expect answers from you and I remain hungry for a concrete action plan, since the analysis has been going on for a number of months. It will undoubtedly not be easy as it is a very extensive work, but I expect answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic541x.u9	Madam Minister, on 28 May, the Council of Ministers adopted a draft royal decree laying down various measures concerning selection, mobility, language certification and career prospects in the federal administrative public office. These adjustments aim to make jobs in the public sector more attractive and the selections more effective. That's commendable. This should make it easier to find the right person in the right place. One of the proposals you make in the Royal Decree is automatic recognition of the financial seniority acquired in other private or self-employed positions. This can only be done if the experience already gained is useful and necessary for the public sector. Today this is not automatic, but one can apply to include relevant experience. The fact that we are committed to making public work more attractive is a good thing, but we must not lose sight of our current staff. After all, I hear from a lot of people that they are not aware of this, they did not know that they should indicate that they have relevant experience. I have questions about this. Do you also foresee a kind of regularisation for civil servants who are already employed in the public sector but whose experience in the private sector has never taken into account their seniority? I understand that the retroactive application of this provision is not feasible. However, would it not be possible, from now on, to include these years of relevant experience for the monetary seniority in their current job? This would have an impact on current wages and pensions later. Can you get this checked out? Are you going to discuss this with the Minister of Pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic541x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, at the moment, the KB's draft does not provide for a recalculation of the financial seniority of staff already employed. However, as you pointed out in your question, these staff have already submitted a file to their new employer at the time of taking up their duties in order to obtain financial recognition of their experience. If the experience they provide is useful for the position in which they have been recruited, that experience will already be taken into account. The purpose of the amendment of the Royal Decree is, on the one hand, to initiate automatically the procedure for examining whether the experience gained by a person is useful for the job in which the person is recruited, and, on the other hand, to ensure that, where a minimum professional experience is explicitly included in the call for candidates, this minimum professional experience is automatically taken into account. We see no reason to apply this retrograde as the situation is not problematic for those people at the moment. On your second question, I can tell you that in the past there has never been such consultation between the Minister of Civil Service and the Minister of Pensions in the event of adjustments concerning the taking into account of monetary seniority services. I am therefore not planning any consultation with the Minister for Pensions on this issue either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic541x.u11	Madam Minister, as I have already said in my question, it was indeed possible in the past to give up that seniority, but that is what one had to do. Some people were not adequately informed about this in the past. That is why I ask you to consider whether something can be corrected for those cases where something has gone wrong in the past. After all, this has an impact on their pension. Hopefully it is not about a large number of cases, but give those people a chance to get a solution to that now, so that they have to give up their seniority which they might have had to give up twenty years ago. I know that a maximum of ten years could not be taken into account at that time. There are situations in which people with 13 years of experience, who did not indicate this at the time because they were not aware of it, therefore miss ten years of seniority. They sometimes have a lower bet than their subordinates, although they sometimes lead 500 people. For this category of people, who may not be very numerous, I would ask you to take the necessary initiatives to make the adjustments, either at this R &amp; D or at another. Are you prepared to investigate that possibility? I apologize for asking the question again and trying to clarify it that way. After all, it has not yet been resolved for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic541x.u12	Madam Secretary nods in the affirmative. Does that reassure you, Mrs. Lanjri?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic541x.u13	I'm sure it's reassuring that you'd like to have it examined. Hopefully it will be all right for those involved in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic541x.u14	Madam Minister, last Wednesday was the international day of public services. The trade unions then took action in favour of the Flemish Parliament to highlight the importance of public services and against savings policy. There was also an online action at European level in different countries. Today, the destructive report on the ADIV in relation to the Conings case is up to date. There is a structural shortage of staff in that file. In the case of Asylum and Migration there is also a large shortage of staff due to the years of savings. The Michael administration has saved a lot on the public sector. I have received a letter from the College of Presidents of the Federal and Programmatic Administrations, which was also addressed to you, in which they are doing a cri de coeur on savings in the public sector. I give some examples of the savings between 2014 and 2019: 12% on the staff that comes, the police and the Defense Department excluded, representing a decrease of 3,800 FTEs or 6,8% on the workforce; 28% on the operation and 33% on investments. A total of EUR 900 million was thus saved in public sector resources. For the financial year 2021, the government decided to make a further linear saving to the FPS and PPS in the amount of 2% on staff and operational appropriations. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Will you take into account the sighs of the civil service and stop the austerity spiral? Has the previous dramatic savings been evaluated under the Michael administration? What was the conclusion? The years of savings have greatly increased the workload. The limits have also been reached in this area. Will you use the turnaround by strengthening the public administration through additional recruitments or pulling the map of outsourcing, which is already running at its limits? Public managers ask to be able to decide autonomously on the use of resources and thus on the allocation of these resources within their budget, as well as to transfer unused resources to other financial years. How do you feel about this? Should government managers be given more autonomy in their own use of resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic541x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, I share your concern. I am also in favour of a strong public service. To ensure this, a sufficiently strong corps is needed, both in terms of competences and capacity. During the period 2014-2019, the number of full-time equivalents within the federal public office decreased from 67,972 to 58,868. This represented a decrease of 13%. This was mainly achieved by not replacing retired civil servants and then implementing digitisation initiatives, structural changes and other efficiency initiatives. Nevertheless, I agree that, after a certain period of continued savings, we can reach a lower limit if we want to continue to guarantee a strong service. It is therefore by no means the intention of the current government to return to savings as we have seen in certain previous years, sometimes blocking appropriations. However, the budgetary context in which the government stood when it took office is a reality which cannot be denied. For example, in 2015, under the Michael administration, 4% of staff was saved in the federal government, 20% on the operation and 22% on investments. We will not save on investment at all. In this context, however, this government has proposed a dynamic budgetary policy, with an annual saving of EUR 150 million on staff and operating appropriations from the agencies during the legislative period, i.e. EUR 600 million cumulatively. Investments are exempt across the board. For 2021, the savings were indeed 2%, and we should point out that the number of covid departments but also departments for which we had decided to invest were not covered by the 2% scheme, but were reduced to 0.89%. So it's not 2 % for everyone, the average will be somewhere between the two. An exercise is currently under way under the direction of the Secretary of State for the Budget, with all the partners in the government, on how we will complete the savings from 2022 onwards. I cannot yet make a preliminaries of the decision that will be taken. However, I would like to point out that additional resources are being allocated to strengthen certain departments in need, such as Asylum and Migration, to which you referred, but also to Justice, for example. A not insignificant action that I would also like to mention in the discussions on workload is the implementation of structural measures to prevent and treat stress-related diseases. To this end, the government allocated EUR 1 million specifically to civil servants. After all, as we have just pointed out, long-term absenteeism means that the others have a higher workload for the same workload. For your second question, I will look together with the leading officials and the custody ministers at how we can implement a modern, efficient, customer-friendly, green and sustainable federal government that provides quality services. We focus on different actions. Firstly, we focus on improving our internal functioning, for example by simplifying and rationalising horizontal structures and facilities, which everyone needs, for example: catering, surveillance, furniture, cleaning or social services. We can make this a transversal and facility pillar. For the sake of clarity, we are not talking about outsourcing. In addition, we are trying, through spending reviews, to identify possible reductions in spending. At present, three pilot projects, one of which is linked to expenditure, are linked to the functioning of the departments. In doing so, we evaluate the impact of generalised telework on the organization and expenditure of the federal government. We believe that savings can certainly be made in this area in the light of the teleworking situation, to which we will, after all, continue to evolve in part. Thirdly, other actions aim at simplifying administrative processes and the further digitisation that may be associated with them. For your question on outsourcing, I refer to the autonomy of each department, which must take a position and a vision in accordance with the custody minister. If we can organise the facility blocks cross-sectionally, it is not the intention to outsource. Your last question was about more autonomy for government managers. My policy cell will certainly contribute to the plans put forward by the Secretary of State for the Budget for simplifying and reviewing budgetary rules and increasing budgetary autonomy within the various departments. These should aim to make the most of the rules for the redistribution of budgets, in application of the Law of 22 May 2003 on the organisation of the budget and on the compatibility of the federal state.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic541x.u16	Madam Secretary, I'd like to show you the poster of the people who think this should stop. The corona crisis has also shown us that many people in the public sector have worked very hard. Those people need more hands and more resources to do their job right. We need to make a strong commitment to that. They believe that savings should no longer be made, as too much has been saved in recent years. Your figures are even higher than the figures I have mentioned: 13 % fewer people are huge, that's a lot less hands to do those jobs. In the letter from the officials addressed to you, they write that the impact may be enormous as certain core tasks may no longer be carried out if they do not have sufficient resources. I hope you will hear the cri de coeur of these people and the trade unions. Madam Minister, we must set an example and ensure that staff in public services can work in good conditions.
