ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u1	The meeting opened at 9:09 a.m. and was chaired by Ms Valerie Van Peel, Vice-Chair. The meeting was opened at 9.09 a.m. and chaired by Valerie Van Peel, vice-president.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u2	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u3	Minister of the Federal Government present at the opening of the sitting: At the opening of the meeting, the Minister of the Federal Government: Frank Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u4	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's and tomorrow's meetings. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's and tomorrow's meetings. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u5	Madam President, we have tabled amendments to this draft and I ask for the opinion of the Council of State on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u6	Madam President, we have tabled a series of amendments for which we ask for referral to the Council of State. Things have been made clear in the Health Committee. This is a huge and diverse bill that was originally a series of bills that were brought together. My colleague Mrs Depoorter and I have made proposals to have a series of articles voted on as a matter of urgency, as desired by the government. This bill is particularly problematic. The consultation was partly a façade or absent for certain provisions. The project contains measures which, in the midst of the covid's pandemic, can only be called upon: for example, the desire of the Vivaldi parties to introduce a post-study lock in the law for medical and dental graduates, who will soon have to go around Europe to have an INAMI number in Belgium. It's a height! The government relies on them to send them to the front of the covid epidemic and then punish them. I think it reflects political disagreements between levels of power. But these disagreements cannot be resolved on the backs of future graduates: they must settle between policies with solutions to be found between policies. There are other points of concern and need to be clarified at the legal level. I am thinking, in particular, of the mega-giga-bank of data, so far managed by healthcare providers and which, tomorrow, would end up subcontracting, in the hands of a structure which also has the decoding keys; this would be the undermining of the major safeguards and safeguards for the protection of privacy and sensitive health data. I could give other examples. We ask the Council of State on these various aspects. We had already tabled amendments in committee. Some amendments were re-tabled in plenary and other amendments were also completed, in particular following discussions and debates in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u7	Madam President, we will also support this request for referral to the Council of State. There have been several twists in the form and substance of this bill. An important provision for the PTB is no longer to prohibit the application of a third party fee for patients. This is a step forward that we have supported. We have also proposed that this move be made as a matter of urgency. However, some elements of this bill cannot be digested. Like Mrs Fonck, I am thinking of the creation of this giga-bank of data which poses a problem in terms of conflicts of interest and data management in Belgium. Neither Parliament nor the government is dealing with this problem. A new red line that has been crossed is the hostage taking of young doctors and medical students, now in the midst of a blockade, who learn that the granting of the INAMI number will again be the subject of a political war between the various entities and the federal government. The federal government is moving forward by taking these students hostage. This is unacceptable! This is outrageous, especially since these students are now being asked during their internships, among other things, to help fight the pandemic! And, at the end of the race, maybe we won't give them their INAMI number. Minister, last night you made it very clear. You said if there was agreement, there would be no problem. In other words, there is no guarantee for these students that they will really be able to practice the profession of doctor. It's a completely incomprehensible decision. It's an old political quarrel 20 years ago. It is a decision taken at some point to limit the number of doctors. How dare you take such action? Today, we need every force, including doctors, in hospitals. This is not the time to break vocations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u8	Madam President, this draft law has already been debated in committee. It's a bulky document. The fact that the opposition does not agree with everything is not so exceptional. It is a draft law which has been given the urgency of this hemisphere; for a reason, of course, there are a lot of urgent provisions in it. If the opposition wants to exercise its right to use delay maneuvers, it can, of course, and I cannot stop it. But I would like to ask them to apply that right correctly and to vote by roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Depraetere. There is the option of holding a roll-call vote if you insist, although I do not think it will be exciting. That means, in any case, that we do the vote, for example, at 10 a.m., because that has to be technically prepared. In the meantime, I suggest that we move on to the next issue. There are two options: either we proceed with the agenda while the vote is being technically prepared, or there will be a suspension.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u10	Madam President, I have no problem with moving on to the agenda, but I would ask for that roll-call vote as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u11	Of course there can be a name vote. However, we already had that discussion in October, when two similar votes took place at the request of the majority, with only votes by the group chairmen. We're in difficult circumstances because of covid, so it's a matter of mutual respect. I wouldn't want there to be two different speeds. I have a little difficulty with the fact that at the time two votes were taken at the request of the majority parties in which only the chairmen of the political groups had to vote, whereas now a vote of name should be taken because it is at the request of the opposition. I don't like double standards in politics. We must be able to reach an agreement between us, even if we know that the conditions are not ideal because of the covid and your electronics. Let's try to harmonize things!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u12	A question for clarification. Is Mr Depraetere asking for a roll-call vote or an indicative vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u13	A joint and several.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u14	Madam President, I understand Mr Dewael's question. It has some sense of the measure and how a parliament should function. The rules that some want to impose on others but do not want to be applied are largely a question. It is no longer surprising how Vivaldi works! This is terribly disappointing. You ask for a vote but keep in mind that we could then demand certain things that would be much less friendly. We have never had the incorrection to do so, but if we still want to deteriorate the ambient climate, we will learn the lesson of the day!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u15	My proposal would be to keep the vote as we always do with the group chairmen. However, if there is an explicit request for a roll-call vote, I suggest that we proceed with the next item on the agenda and organise the vote at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u16	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr De Caluwe, who refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u17	Minister, we know that the proposal has a lot of counterwind from the Nursing Professional Association. It is considered that the proposal is a derogatory approach to the profession of nurse. From the many e-mails we all received, the folds are not yet smoothed. The question is whether you have been with and listened to the profession. The Law of 6 November 2020 was drafted to address a possible crisis situation during the pandemic, preventing or avoiding Italian situations. After all, if care collapsed in the worst scenario, it should be possible to legally engage others. We supported that at the time, Minister. (Groaning on the benches) Are we listening, or are we here in front of the gallery? I shall return to my speech. Minister, the question arises as to whether we can and can still talk about a crisis situation. The problem you want to solve with this amendment is not so much an acute problem as a chronic one. Consequently, it has little to do with a crisis situation. On the other hand, there seems to be a crisis situation here. Another question is how you want to upgrade the profession of nurse, if you outsource specific nursing tasks. In this respect, I understand the comments of the Occupational Association of Nurses. I read in the proposed legislative text that it is possible to rely on its new possibilities 'after exhaustion of all other existing means'. What exactly are we supposed to imagine? I didn't really get an answer to that question in committee. Who checks that all other existing resources are exhausted? Are we also talking, for example, about the recovery of nurses or people who have left care or retired doctors and nurses? Does that mean that you're requisitioning at temporary agency offices? I'm just saying. From your answer in committee, I could see that there has not really been an evaluation of the functioning of the testing and vaccination centres. You made it seem that no problems were reported, but we do not think that this is a reason not to evaluate such a large event. There may still be problems under the radar. Points can still be improved. We see that a few sectors or categories have been added, such as the senior medical students, the pharmaceutical-technical assistants and the medical laboratory technicians. My question was the reason for that supplement. Was there a demand from these groups or was there a need from the testing and vaccination centres? Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we received all kinds of e-mails from the professional associations of nurses also points out that once again, and once again, no or at least not enough consultation has taken place. Mr Minister, just because you are late again with a text and have created an uncertain legal vacuum as long as it is not settled quickly, we will support the draft, but rest assured: it is not heartfelt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u18	Madam President, it is a special moment. Mrs Depraetere of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats blamed the opposition for delaying the previous legislative text, even though it contained only a number of urgent provisions, which she herself supported. But the urgency of this cannot, of course, be compared with that of the draft law we are discussing here. Ladies and gentlemen, the N-VA Group has been advocating a draft law as it stands for weeks to months, on the delegation of nursing duties. Since the beginning of October 2021, our group has warned the Minister that the oblivion to extend the law of 4 and 6 November had a major impact on our vaccination centres. Ladies and gentlemen, let us return to history, more precisely to last summer, when it became clear that the third shot would be necessary. The Flemish Government and the N-VA Group in the Flemish Parliament also called for this on several occasions that summer. However, no steps were taken to prepare the third shot. At the beginning of September it was discussed whether it might be better to vaccinate in the third world instead of providing our elderly and vulnerable with a third shot. At the beginning of October I received the notification from the vaccination centres, because panic arose because a large part of the vaccine workers could no longer be employed. Voluntary care providers, after their day job, would not dare to challenge the fact that care providers have re-invented themselves in the crisis in vaccination centres in a legally correct manner. I have pointed this out to the Minister in plenary and in committee meetings on a regular basis. There's been a fact check, but a mea culpa still hasn't arrived. But hurray, we are very satisfied with the fact that the gap is finally resolved. The caregivers have responsibilities when administering vaccines in the vaccination centres. As a minister, you can refer to the insurance and liability of the vaccination centre, but there is always an individual responsibility. In a real dispute, I am not sure who would end up in the period of legal quicksand. I sincerely hope that no major problems have arisen with patients and that there will be no legal proceedings. In general, it is up to the legislator to act proactively. Now that the importance of the third prick is indisputably established, the studies last summer already gave that to................................................................................................................................................................................................... After all, we are now doing all we can to give the third shot to the maximum of our patients, but if we had continued in October, we would have been much further along that path and then we might have seen an impact on the number of sick people, on the number of people being admitted and on the number of people in intensive care. I'll keep my mouth shut about all the care providers who have fallen out. However, I would like to reiterate that we started the fourth wave with a disability of 10% less ICU beds due to the loss of care providers. Would those care providers have been less susceptible if they had already received the third shot? You yourself, Minister, have indicated that this will have to be investigated. I therefore propose that we certainly look at the impact if the federal government had done what it is expected to do, namely to proactively ensure that volunteers could get to work effectively in the vaccination centres. It is a good thing that the draft is before us today and that it will come into force in January. We have not yet decided whether the retroactivity is ideally arranged. Another comment from my group concerns the duration: the law can be extended once, which is good, but what will happen next year? Will the federal government at that time be sufficiently proactive if we still need the delegation of nursing duties? That is what we are asking ourselves. The design also regulates the testing in the pharmacy by the pharmacist and the pharmacy assistant. In this context, I would like to point out once again that we have had a discussion about the isolation certificate that can be given when a patient has a positive test in the pharmacy. Turns out that's a problem. When a patient tests positive, he should be guaranteed that he is in general so that an additional step to the GP is not necessary. As far as the certificate of recovery is concerned, you replied to me that it is a European regulation. If the patient tests positive for an antigen test, you do not think that a repair certificate can be given, in agreement with your European colleagues, and that a PCR test is still needed. However, I would once again like to call for this to be included in the discussions. After all, you may also have read in the Corona Report, which is being discussed today in the Consultative Committee, that there is doubt as to whether the question of testing can be adequately answered in the expected wave of omikron. So it will be a case of all hands on deck. We know that today. We do not yet know to what extent this variant will be more sickening or not. So it would be a good thing for the federal government to think about this today, too, in order to bring as little burden and as much efficiency as possible into the test policy. Last week, Professor Van Gucht confirmed in committee that the testing policy has not been adapted to date, either to delta or to omikron. It is good that we are taking a step here, but we must also make maximum use of that step and ensure that we can test to the maximum, as soon as omikron also offers itself effectively to us. We expect this variant to become dominant around Christmas Day. So we will have to be predictable, Minister, for Omikron, for the third shot, perhaps also for the follow-up. We shall therefore support this bill, ladies and gentlemen. However, I would like to emphasise very clearly that the law on the delegation of nursing duties is very important. I hear colleagues saying that we must first exhaust the nurse's reserve and we must be convinced that this nurse's care is certainly respected. My group, through Mr Yoleen Van Camp and Mr Geybels, has always argued for this. We continue to argue in favour of this. Training as a nurse is very important, but we need to ensure that care is resilient enough to absorb any subsequent waves. That brings me to the last point that we have discussed before. I am very sorry that the health buddies and nurse buddies were not included in the bill. You could have included this in the delegation of the nurses' duties. In this way one could have given the resilience of care a boost. Look at the decision taken by the Flemish Government, which allows healthcare professionals or nurses with diplomas from other countries to be immediately involved in the care sector. That is what we expect from a resilient and decisive policy. I'd like to ask the federal government once again to do something about that. We are in a crisis and we know that a new crisis is coming towards us. There are possibilities, there are quick wins. I referred to this last week in my speech. Get started with this and make sure that the workload in healthcare is dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u19	Minister, the title of this bill is'social measures in connection with the covid crisis'. When I first looked at it in committee, I thought there would really be measures to support health workers, real measures to improve working conditions, but I came back from a bald trip. This is a law which is rapidly extended and extended, but which was not discussed with the people on the ground. It extends the operation of the law of 6 November concerning the delegation of nurse acts to non-competent staff. This law, together with the law of 4 November, is merged into one law and extended until 1 July. It is then specifically about the delegation of nursing activities in the testing and vaccination centres. Minister, do you remember the reaction of the people on the ground when that law was passed last year? The General Union of Nurses then indicated that it was a lack of recognition and could in practice lead to even higher workload, because training needs to be organised in the short term. Also the problem of responsibility arises when a nurse act is transferred to a less competent person. The medical staff had done the crane foot, because they did not want these "measures" but rather structural measures, taken in consultation with them. For us, Minister, this process must stop. The pressure on people is very high, they are at the end of their nerves and can no longer. It is especially for this reason that we will not support this bill, but rather abstain. We are not against the fact that certain tasks are carried out, in vaccination centres and screening centres, by staff who do not necessarily have the title, but we are against the way in which we proceed, which is totally incongruous with what is happening on the ground. This law of 4 November 2020, against which the staff then insurgent, was not evaluated. How can you extend a measure that has not been evaluated and that I have been told in the field - in any case in hospital services - that many nursing directorates have refused to implement this legislation? For us, we really need to respond in a concerted and structural way to improve the organisation in hospitals. Another striking factor is the fact that, in the opinion of the Council of State, you were motivating the urgency of this bill, as if, and I will continue in Dutch... In the request for advice to the Council of State, you justify the urgency of this draft law as follows: a shortage of health care professionals under the test and vaccination strategy should be avoided at all times, especially in view of the faster emergence of new variants whose effects are currently not predictable and where a new wave cannot be excluded. And that's where it gets a little cynical; because instead of joining the act with the word and lifting the patents on vaccines, you're going to delegate acts to untrained staff. We saw it again this Monday, when we really had to join the act and vote in committee at the request of countries around the world to lift the patent on the covid vaccine. We saw all the members of the Vivaldi leave the room. It was really a shame.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u20	Madam President, Minister, after two years of crisis, it is not like we are now facing the unexpected. Of course, we must mobilize all the forces. I can also tell you that on the ground, all caregivers, whatever they may be, are at the front, with a courage that must be recalled and greeted again and again. Nevertheless, this text, in substance, poses a problem for two reasons. On the one hand, even though, since you took office, you have not scratched the White Blouses Fund, the reality is that few nurses have been hired by the White Blouses Fund. You have not detrigued the social agreement; but at the same time, always and again, despite the reasonable and legitimate proposals of the representatives of the nursing arts, no progress has been made on the attractiveness of the profession, on the consideration of the heaviness and penitence, on the standards of supervision, on the quality of the reconciliation between work and personal life. No progress has been made on these aspects, which remain crucial and fundamental to us. Coming with this type of project, without any openness to the various issues I have just mentioned, is first of all a real problem of recognition of the investment of our caregivers; but it seems to me that it is also a mistake in public health. I hear colleagues in the majority say: "Ah, but we don't know how to hire nurses, there are no nurses!" Yes, but what are you doing to make it happen? We are here in both very short-term and medium- and long-term issues. As long as we do not make progress on these various measures, I think we can continue to say that there are not enough nurses and that we do not know how to hire them. I would like to use this text to focus on this issue. I do not agree with you that extra-medical staff must, in the end, carry out nursing and think that this is the solution to the shortage of nurses and caregivers. It is absolutely necessary to be able to move forward. The General Union of Nurses of Belgium has made proposals which are not of today's date but which are even more relevant. With regard to the second part, you propose to mobilise a series of other caregivers, future caregivers for screening and vaccination, and to extend some measures and new measures. These mechanisms have not yet been used in practice since the beginning of the crisis. This proves that this is not necessarily the most appropriate answer. But at the same time, general practitioners continue to tell me that they are not taken into account with regard to covid vaccination in their practice. I say it again; I do not know how many times it will have to be repeated since it has been said and repeated for months, but I note that on the side of the majority Vivaldi, despite the beautiful speeches, the mouth in the heart before the general practitioners, it is quite different in the acts. Once again, I allow myself to relay their comments, their positions and their calls. We have just talked about another bill, which provides that INAMI can automatically block young Belgian graduates, since INAMI will not block young graduates from another European university. But you're asking these medical interns to go even more to the front. They're already there. It is exciting to note that in half an hour of time, in a project, the government wants to sanction Belgian university graduates with a second lock and, moreover, to ask them to go to the front against the covid during their years of internship. In terms of support and respect for our youth, the signals sent by the parties of La Vivaldi are the subject of a lack of consideration. I very much regret that. I continue to advocate for more coordinated and structured health care as well as for structured care teams in the fight against covid. Overlaying individual approaches will not contribute to greater effectiveness. Tandems or trios in vaccination centres work well. This could be organised more "proximally" for citizens rather than with difficulties in organisation, in terms of responsibility and between different caregivers. Minister, we will therefore not support this text and we call on you to take more ambitious and crucial steps for our health care system, in support of our caregivers. Just look at the number of beds closed to intensive care and units because of the lack of staff. Not seeing that the solution is through support measures for nurses and caregivers is really the wrong analysis and strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u21	Mrs Sneppe has asked a number of relevant questions. She asked if there was any consultation with the professional groups. That has indeed been discussed. Then she asked what I am doing to upgrade the appeal if one also subcontracts tasks. This concerns two specific tasks, namely vaccination and testing. This should always be done within the framework of a structured care quipe, where a responsible nurse can be a responsible nurse. It is not a devalorisation of the profession if a nurse can have responsibility for a care equipe in which someone else, who is not a nurse, takes tests. That's not a devalorisation of the profession. That was with the previous emergency law, which looked different than this one. I note that, at least in Flanders, professional organisations of nurses have not reacted so negatively to the previous emergency law. This isn't a devalorization. Mrs Sneppe also asked what exhaustion of all existing resources means. This means that the doctors and nurses responsible are investigating what they can do to better organise the work. This may indeed include the attempt to recruit someone and the appeal to an interim office, which is happening today. There is no mention at all of what needs to be done, there is no claim at all. It is about the normal responsibility of doctors and nurses and of the leading officials or directors who are responsible for the organisation of a particular care setting. Mrs. Sneppe, you asked why these students were added. That was a question from the Task Force Vaccination. The list is now closed, it is not an open list as in previous legislation. Mrs Depoorter, you have come back to a question that I did not quite understand and I have still not fully understood. You asked about the tests. This is not a subject directly linked to this legislation. The European Union says that it does not want to issue a recovery certificate based on a positive rapid antigen test, which is a European agreement. You also said that as a pharmacist you have a problem because you cannot give a certificate to someone who comes to your pharmacy to do a rapid antigen test and test positive. That person would have to run a PCR test, but it might take another 24 hours. You asked what to do. However, that is the wrong problem. That person may come to you after using the self-evaluation tool. That's how it usually happens. If he's had a high-risk contact, because that's what this is about, he'll come to you with a code based on the self-evaluation and get a quarantine certificate there. If he's positive, he's got to go into isolation and there's got to be a sick note. So I don't understand that problem. I presented the problem to those responsible for the Task Force Testing because I did not understand it properly myself. They don't really understand the question either. They say someone is either sick, after which there will be isolation and doctor's note, or come to you after self-evaluation in the context of high-risk contacts. In that case, the self-evaluation shall give a quarantine attestation. So I don't understand it very well. Then I'll get back to the emergency bill. You have repeated this many times now, Mrs Depoorter. No one has a legal problem when this law is passed, because the law goes into retrospect and the Council of State finds that perfectly logical. I should like to express my surprise at the attitude of you and your group. In the middle of September, your official position was that the vaccination centres should be closed. The N-VA dossier on the future of vaccination stated that vaccination centres should be closed and that if a booster was needed, which could be administered to the general practitioner. I do not blame you for taking that position at the time. We can now say that it was not very wise to say that vaccination centres had to close down, but that was the position of the N-VA. I do not blame you, you could think in mid-September that the vaccination centres should be closed, that they should be closed and that they should defend that position in the Flemish Government. No problem. Mrs Depoorter, I find it strange that last week, on my explicit question, you reiterated that you still believe that the booster campaign can be carried out by general practitioners and pharmacists. You literally said that. I wish you every success. You literally said that we could do it without vaccination centres. We would booster with the general practitioners and perhaps also the pharmacists, although the latter cannot yet. Admit I'm a little perplexed at this point. I hope that you do not shout too loudly and, above all, that the Flemish Government does not hear that. Mr Beke is doing a great job of mobilising a lot of people in the vaccination centres, and you thought last week they could be closed as well. Mrs. Fonck, you're against this project. I understand that. You always say we need solutions. There are practical solutions here, but this is not for reasons that I do not share. For the rest, you continue to repeat things that are not correct but they have already been discussed regarding this famous article 87. Meanwhile, but it's a debate that I'm not going to start over, we're trying to do what's possible to invest more in health care. Tonight, I repeated that there is an increase in health care spending of €4.9 billion between 2019 and 2022. It's historical! There are always people who say it's not enough. It's a good war, but it's still historical.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u22	Mr Minister, I shall return to the certificate of recovery following the positive antigen test. There you can see the difference between someone who tries to give a sector direction from his cabinet and someone who stands with his feet in the field. I will try to explain it to you again, Minister. In theory, it is true that the patient can come to the pharmacy with a code via the self-evaluation tool. The patient also knows that he can address himself to a test centre or the general practitioner at high risk contact. That's the theory that was drawn up by your cabinet. Now I will talk about the practice, Minister. In practice, there are a lot of patients who call their GP because they want to be tested. I have just given you an example of this. They will find out that this is not possible because the doctor is ill, a lot of care providers have fallen out, or because there is no time. That patient's gonna look for a test. He ends up at the pharmacy sometimes. This concerns those patients who apply to the pharmacist and who have already applied to GP 1, GP 2, sometimes 3 and 4. In the example I gave earlier, it was even about the fifth GP. That patient starts calling around looking for a test center. In the end, people end up with the pharmacist. In my example, I wasn't even the first pharmacist to call that person. If that person turns out to be positive, then the search for a GP or test centre starts again, because there is a need for a PCR test to get an isolation note for the employer and to confirm the test. I had no problem with that until before the fourth wave, because the government decided that positive patients should pass by the GP to see if those patients should not be treated. You yourself have set up the rule whereby the patient can go directly to the test centre without contact with a doctor and, in the case of a positive test, get directly into the mailbox without contact with a doctor, a quarantine note or isolation note. It is therefore not asked that the pharmacist should issue a note, as you have just insinuated. The pharmacist who has a positive antigen test will pass that on to Sciensano. Then the return can happen perfectly as happens in a test center. So it's for those patients to solve that problem that I've asked you three times to do something about it. Hopefully this is clear and you are prepared to tackle that problem, which really is coming out of the field. You can say again that there is no problem with the retroactivity. How many lawsuits have you followed around health care? It's not always unambiguous. I hope you're right, but there could be a problem here. Where were you with your law on nursing duties?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u23	That's historic. I have never seen a group welcome the fact that its position has not been followed. I share your opinion. Fortunately, your position has not been followed. Fortunately, the Flemish government did not close the vaccination centres, although that was the official position of the N-VA. They've started to finish a bit under pressure from the N-VA, but fortunately they're not closed. It is historic that you welcome the fact that you have been wrong in an explicit position. There is more joy in heaven over one sinner who converts than over a hundred believers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u24	Minister, I hope you have had a good night's sleep and that you will have a relaxing day. Yesterday the pressure was a little higher I had the impression. If you say not to 'boost', why should Flanders keep vaccination centres open? To turn their fingers, to play ping-pong? The reality is that you are the one who delayed the 'boostering' for almost two months. That is the reality and from the moment it was possible to 'boost', there is 'boosted' in the Flemish vaccination centres, and I also assume in Walloon and Brussels, at a pace and with an enthusiasm that would please you if you showed that in your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u25	Mr De Roover, we can continue to discuss this, but we will later assess whether the booster campaign was launched quickly enough and we will all take political responsibility for that. I have no problem with that. Nor will I refer to experts who have said anything and that we have done so. We will take political responsibility for this, but there has never been anyone who said, even in the committee of mid-September, that we should booster, although the scientists said it was not necessary. In the Inter-Ministerial Conference, there has never been a colleague who has argued to do so if it was scientific advice not to do so. That's a collective responsibility. Mr De Roover, your very good colleague, Mrs Depoorter, said last week that the vaccination centres were not necessary, that they should have been closed, because that would have been taken over by the general practitioners and pharmacists. You shake off no, but that's on the record. I am glad that Mrs Depoorter now, a week later, says that fortunately, in September, people were wrong. I really like that. We're not in a bar, but I admire pirouettes like this. I would simply like to underline that, because I have not experienced this very often and I have been in Parliament for a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u26	Mr. Secretary of State, amazement, that is something we share with you. We are surprised that in this crisis you are constantly rediscovered in cynicism, in political games and in condescension. I'll go over some things with you. Minister, I did not say very clearly last week that vaccination centres should be closed down. I have noticed that investigating a reboost through the first line is a valid slope. Let me explain to you why. At this point, too, I am in the field, while you are very keen to surround yourself in your ivory tower with professors and academics who may not have had a syringe in their hands in recent years. Take the flu vaccination. At one and a half months, the first line - the pharmacists who deliver the vaccines, and the general practitioners who put the shot - was about 2.9 million syringes. I'm saying 2.9 million shots. I challenged you to make a plan with the vaccination centers and the task force to give a million syringes a week. That's feasible. Your government commissioner, Mr Facon, even calculated that. That calculation was contained in the previous report of the Commissariat. In the debate on facts, figures, I absolutely blame you for not taking any steps in September 2021 to ensure that the reboost came. Minister, I refer you to the committee of 14 September 2021. Feel free to read the report again. During that committee, I asked you to vaccinate the care staff and the vulnerable. At that time you replied to me that we had to think about the vaccination of the Third World. That was your statement at the time. You can explain it very well. Your theater from before is pleasant to watch. However, it is completely beside the facts. You weren't working on the third shot at all. You were not at all involved in the delegation of nursing duties. That is even proven by the fact that you even pretended not to be necessary at the beginning of October 2021. You have maintained that until this bill has been discussed. It wasn't necessary! Now you say that we will have a collective political responsibility. No, Minister, it is your responsibility! You are even contradicted by your own experts. You will not do it here, you say, but they do it in the press, very clearly. You didn't take the steps you had to take for the third shot. That's a fact. If we are talking about the games that are being played, this week we discovered a new game in the Health Committee: devil you. What does the majority do when it gets a little difficult? Then she walks away, your group first. So if there's a disagreement, you either walk away or deny there's a problem. However, what you did not mention in your reply is the discussion we have often had about the resilience of care. Speaking of responsibilities, I have a question for you. How do you feel about the fact that you have never called the hospitals together between two waves to debrief and see how the care can be designed to work optimally? If you get a question about a long-term vision, you refer to the Coronac Commissioner and you say that it will be looked at and a long-term or medium-term vision will be developed. 'Develop', Minister, after two years of crisis. It would be a good idea for you to talk to your coalition partners after all. Things aren't always right within your government. We know that and we also notice that, like the disagreement about the clinical sexuologists, which we will come back to later. Perhaps you should listen to your colleagues in the federal government, who are also in the Flemish government. This morning a very prominent person of a coalition partner was speaking on the radio. It was made very clear that one would attract profiles and make sure that the training can be done with all the responsibilities of someone who has had an active career for a long time; so really bet on additional staff for care today. The newspaper even published an open letter from a Professor of Nursing about the organisation of the care. But I don't hear you talking about that. Suddenly it's quiet. Then the great orator is suddenly typing. Minister, the organisation of care is essential. You are told that very clearly. But apparently you're not listening. We have talked so many times about the delayed care, Minister. The oncologists are crying out for help. I haven't heard you answer yet. Finally, Minister...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u27	You weren't here last night. That's not a criticism. But I explained it to your colleague. I'm being briefed every day through the Hospital&Transport Surge Capacity Committee. I'm also asking that committee how it looks at the situation? I'm in constant consultation. I don't know what you'll do on December 24th. You don't have to say that. But on December 24th I have an appointment with the hospital directories. I will spend the morning of 24 December on that. I think that's normal. Saying I don't hear those people is a bit off the pot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u28	Mr. Secretary, I wasn't here last night. I'll tell you where I was. You can check that out. I was a pharmacist on hold this night. There is real experience in the field, Minister. What I regret is that you are meeting with the hospitals on 24 December, when you should have done so on 24 July. Then you could have prepared the fourth wave. Minister, we will support this bill in order to correct your negligent policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u29	I think I'll be shorter. Minister, I am still shocked by your response. Indeed, the PTB puts concrete proposals on the table to attract nurses and respond to the crisis in our health care, and you say: "This will never be enough. It's a good war." But are you serious about your response to nurses and caregivers who are at the end of the day and who are on the street? You have to listen to the staff, minister, and you have to give them that recognition. If you don't change your shoulder rifle, the situation will get worse and people will leave the area. Hospitals are going to shut down additional services. I can only invite the Members present to support our amendment, not only to send courage to the staff who are now crunching, but also to send a message to the minister who apparently does not want to find more resources for hospital staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u30	Minister, we had a little debate with my colleague. First, we will highlight all the reports of the commissions. I don't know how many times you were approached and pushed to move on to the third dose file when we had all the scientific data. I still see us in debate, for example when you had also procrastinated for the third dose for caregivers. You said you were going to wait, you had to see, we didn't know yet, etc. Anyway! The reality is that we lost a month and a half at that time. Secondly, we do not share at all the same vision of clause 87 of Bill 2320. I do not share at all your vision and that of the parties of Vivaldi. I find it really unacceptable to block a doctor or a licensed dentist. It makes no sense to lock a lock at the end of the studies. That doesn't make any sense! In this regard, we do not share the same approach and I will continue to fight not to let you do so. Students will also fight in this direction. Thirdly, as far as nurses and caregivers are concerned, I have heard your proposals. I do not share them either, but I will pass them on to the main concerned on the ground, who will not fail to form an opinion on this subject. Nor will I continue this debate, Madam President, because I believe that there are indeed disagreements. We just have to act on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u31	You say there has been consultation, but what do you mean by consultation? The e-mails we receive from professional associations show that they do not entirely agree with the outcome of that consultation. What's consultation? In our view, this means that you listen to the people in the field, the experience experts, and then, if necessary, adjust your proposal accordingly. In your view, consultation may be limited to the presentation of the proposal, after which you will only change a few decimals and points here. Then it is easy to say that there has been consultation. In any case, the professional associations, unlike themselves, call the legal text a devalorisation of the profession. On my observation that categories have apparently been added, you replicated that the list has been closed. But a closed list is no guarantee. In other files related to corona, we have often seen you turn your cart completely a few weeks or months later. Hopefully it will be a closed list, both in terms of the potentially outsourced nursing duties and the people they are allowed to perform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u32	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u33	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2358/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2358/1) The bill has 9 articles. The draft law has 9 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u34	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we proceed to the vote on the request for the opinion of the Council of State on the amendments to the draft law on various health provisions (No. 2320).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u36	Consequently, the opinion of the Council of State will be requested on the amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u37	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u38	Madam Chair, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u39	This night we held the budget debate, which, by the way, could have lasted a little longer for me. In this context, we have just mentioned the top five for 2022 that you had given to Mr Goffin during the discussion in committee. The subject of this bill was one of the elements of your top five, namely the creation of the road safety area. It is also before the vote today and let us be honest about it, its creation is entirely in line with your view of fines, fines and fines. Due to a lack of prison capacity, you carry out fewer and fewer penalties, and you pull the ticket of the fines in full. Mr Minister, the NV-A Group agrees with you: road safety is of course important and must be fully deployed, together with the other authorities in this country. It is obvious that someone who commits an infringement will be fined. No one is obligated to commit transgressions. So we don't have a problem with that. On the contrary, it is justified. However, as I said this night, the contrast is very large. Where the execution of prison sentences is stopped earlier, these fines are paid to citizens. By the way, you're also investing in this. First of all, there was extra money for the Crossborder Traffic System, a digital inning platform. Last year, you introduced a flat tax to set it up. Today, additional staff are also provided. That does indeed pay, because 90% of the fines are apparently collected in this way. In the 2022 budget, you have even entered EUR 100 million for this purpose, which also makes the budget look good. With the creation of a national road safety park, you will go even further. It's a mouthful of...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u40	Colleagues, a little quieter, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u41	This national court should make it possible to work more efficiently and to centralise certain tasks, allow more uniform treatment and even allow decentralised police officers to focus much more on the more serious offences. Mr. Secretary, you will be putting together that parquet of three magistrates and a few dozen employees. Tell me honestly, this is really nothing more than a collection agency. Three magistrates and dozens of staff are mainly concerned with infringements for which immediate recovery is already requested. We know that almost 90% of those immediate collections can be collected via Crossborder. So we're talking about the 10% that's left. A separate parquet is then set up for this purpose. I know that this is also done at the request of the LAGs and that the organisations working on road safety have given a positive opinion on this. The Council of State did have a number of questions, so did the Supreme Court, and we still have them. I still sincerely wonder whether this 10% should really be a reason for giving more priority to this, at the expense of other crime. After all, there is. For me, it's still a mystery where the drop in workload will be due to other parquets. I can still understand that for the decentralised police guards, but a court of law will have no less work as a result. That doesn't change anything. What about the approach at national level? You are now setting up a national court because you say that we need to work cross-border. Traffic offences are fairly local, drug crime is already a little more cross-border. It's different for traffic anyway. Moreover, the Supreme Court has asked itself out loud whether it would not be better, instead of setting up a new entity and adding it to the judicial order, to use existing structures. Why don't you provide additional capacity for the existing police stations? Why don't you expand the expertise network? Why don't you bet on an extension in the Domains and Penale Boeten Receiving Office? Why don't we go back there and strengthen? Last night we talked about how many penalty penalties are still open. So I sincerely wonder whether such an additional structure will ultimately be at the expense of greater efficiency. Wouldn't it have been better to just strengthen the existing traffic parks and work on the basis of very clear guidelines from the College of PGs? You speak of a different approach and you say that we need uniformity. In other domains and in other parquets, this is done via the guidelines. Then why wouldn't it be here? If it is to be a separate court, then why not stand a separate court for sexual crimes, for drug crime or for tax fraud, the day this becomes a priority again? By using it, we give the impression that traffic offences are given more priority than other crimes. I am thinking here of sexual violence, which we know is that half of the investigations are simply dismissed today and only 10% of the cases are reported. Maybe we should get extra backup there? Why don't we focus more on the execution of capital punishment? That's what we talked about last night, there's still a lot to pick up. The Court of Auditors has calculated it for you: in recent years we have missed a billion euros in this area. That money would help bring justice back into balance, but you are not taking any or insufficient initiatives, which is not in the top five, unlike the lick-on ticket fines and the national collection agency. Picking up fines is one thing, Minister. To really do something about road safety, we need to increase the chance of getting caught. That is the real problem, but you still do not put enough effort into it and so it will not be solved. Not only should the chance of taking things up, but it should also be the same everywhere, which is not the case today. I would like to draw colleagues' attention to a number of interesting figures from 2019. Flanders had 1,450 flash poles. We could do a quiz right now to ask how many there are in Wallonia, but for some it's a little late this night. In Wallonia, dear colleagues, there are 280. 1,450 versus 280! I think that's gonna make a difference. There are also five times more route checks in Flanders than in the French-speaking part of the country. In Flanders, much more PVs are written per inhabitant than in Wallonia and Flanders accounts for 70% of immediate collections. For the sake of completeness, I would add that Wallonia accounts for 21% and Brussels for 9%. That inequality won't be much for your new national parquet. We need to increase the chances of catching up, together with local authorities and the regions. If you do not, Minister, you will not improve road safety. Then what's left of your new parquet? It is then only a collection agency, which then mainly visits the Fleming. However, you will be able to collect your fines, fines, fines, and with that you may be able to make a point of your top five, Minister, but do not increase road safety. As is often the case when urgent requests are made, a number of amendments have been added quickly to speed things up which have nothing to do with the actual subject, such as postponing entry into force, a classic. This bill is full of it. I'd like to quote two of them. Firstly, in the case of the magistrate, the temporary frameworks are renewed. I remember very well how, during the previous reign, Mr Van Hecke insisted that it really should be the last time. And look, it's in there. So you can see how quickly things can change, dear colleague, as soon as you are in the majority. You wouldn't do that anymore, but you will. One could then hope that the workload measurement will be carried out. Then we can finally put the people in the right place, where they really need to be. That workload measurement, which is needed to finally get rid of these temporary frameworks, would come in January. But in the committee, Minister, you replied that the College of the courts and courts still needs to consider the parameters and whether it might be better organised by law. In short, this workload measurement from January, I really hope so, but I'm a little afraid of it. In the meantime, we're dealing with these temporary frameworks. Secondly, the execution of sentences and the early release of detainees. Minister: I know that you are happy to announce that sanctions are being effectively implemented, but it seems that you do not like to put that into practice. This is also apparent from the amendments that have been added here. You wouldn't decide that anymore, that early release of prisoners. However, under pressure from corona, you have introduced it again, a measure which will still apply until 31 May 2022, which you will certainly look beyond a Consultation Committee. Once again, you suspend the execution of the sentence. That's all except to carry out more punishments, which you announced. Your actions are actually at odds with the promises you make in that respect. You would have been adorned if more punishments were effectively carried out, whether that would be an alternative sentence or a prison sentence. It would have decorated you if you had put that effectively in a top five for 2022 and added the deed there as well. You didn't. This would have been much more useful in the end than the creation of a national collection agency. It is easier for you to eat that state treasury than it is for safety, both in traffic and in other areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u42	Mr Minister, working for better road safety is particularly important and should be a priority for the entire policy, regardless of which group someone belongs to. There should not be any discussion about this. Today, road safety in our country leaves a great deal to be desired, with as a result still far too many road accidents. Still far too many families, families, friends face a huge loss. It is therefore important to work on this and to find a solution to deal with traffic crime severely. The draft law before us deals, inter alia, with the introduction of a single road safety market. In doing so, we must dare to ask whether this is the right choice. Is this really the most efficient way of achieving your objective? This new parquet will be created at the same level as that of a court of the King's Attorney but with its own assigned powers exercised throughout the country. In other words, it must be a structure which is complementary to existing public prosecutors in order to ensure uniform treatment of very similar files. Minister, this can and its noble objectives, but with what is before us today, you cannot convince me. It is a fact that the policy of persecution is very different from one district to another, not just between Flanders and Wallonia. After all, we all know that the chances of catching up in Wallonia are much smaller than in Flanders. In Flanders there are significantly more flashlights than in Wallonia. The number of trajectories is also much higher in Flanders. It was very interesting to hear all these figures from the various opinions you requested in preparation for this draft law. Those opinions were very enlightening in that respect. We must not forget that there is often a great difference between the various arrondissements in Flanders and even within an arrondissement there can be great differences in persecution and punishment, depending on the magistrate, parquet or sitting magistrate, who has to deal with the file. There is also the problem of quotas and the very different use of the margins of tolerance within the various police and police services. Minister, there is an urgent need to change this. We support you in that. Serious infringements must be punishable seriously and in a more uniform manner than they are today. There is a need for a level playing field, the existing differences between Flanders and Wallonia are not justified and should no longer be tolerated. In addition, there is also a need for a significant increase in the chances of getting caught. At the same time, and no attention is paid to this, you also need to do something about recurrent, especially the recurrence of speeding offences, drunk driving, mobile phone use behind the wheel. This recidivism is not actually being dealt with today. People get off with a fine, especially in speeding violations. A lot of people don't even feel that in the wallet. There's got to be a change in that. Whether you can achieve this by introducing a completely new structure, I have serious questions. We are not alone in these reservations. I refer to the remarks made by the Supreme Court of Justice, not an insignificant partner. I quote: 'The reasons for setting up a national road safety authority are not sufficiently substantiated by objective elements. The creation of a new judicial entity should be the result of a far-reaching reflection and added value to the seeker'. I also read: "In place of adding an additional entity to the judicial order, it would be better to strengthen the existing structures such as police patrols, the crossborder platform, the expertise network of the College of Attorneys General or even the office of domains and penalty fines. Mr. Secretary, you must not minimize the rigorous analysis of the Supreme Court of Justice. A legitimate question is therefore whether the creation of a new additional entity within the judicial order is useful and necessary. The theory, even if it sounds good, is a matter, but its practical development with a view to a coherent, functioning, coherent whole that can be incorporated within the existing structures, is certainly not evident. Two crucial points are a particularly difficult challenge in your policy, namely to realise everything you announce with the available resources, and to find sufficient skilled and specialised staff for all areas of Justice. Now, the same crucial questions arise when a new traffic park is set up, Minister. If you do not manage to find sufficient skilled and specialised staff within the other areas of Justice, how will you manage to fill in a completely new traffic park? That's gonna be quite a challenge. The new road safety prosecutor and the chief secretary must be bilingual, rightly so, but such a profile is very difficult to find. I refer to the situation in some Brussels courts. How do you plan to find the right profiles? Will you have sufficient resources to meet this new ambition? The tasks of the new public prosecutor are particularly extensive. I refer, for example, to the extensive opinion of the College of the Public Prosecutor, which entrusts a very extensive mission to the new public prosecutor. This is not only limited to the purely national procedures, it is clearly the intention to develop the new market into a genuine centre of expertise in a number of European issues. They are very detailed and very ambitious. In order to achieve this, there will need to be more than sufficient resources, resources that I doubt you have. Moreover, the success of the new market will largely depend on a sound IT infrastructure. Today, the MACH system is not sufficiently performing to manage the files optimally from a central point of view, and I do not need to remind you that IT infrastructure has a very strong price tag. Another question concerns the relationship between the existing police car parks and the new road safety market. How do you see that? Who will decide whether or not the traffic breach should be dealt with before the police judge? Will that be the traffic attorney or the attorney at the police court? There is a great deal of uncertainty about this. I have read with great interest the detailed explanation of the draft law, but it does not really create much clarity. In fact, the draft law contradicts itself repeatedly. It is not even possible that the powers of the public prosecutor in the area of road safety will overlap with those of the existing police authorities, and that should not be the intention. I read, for example, that the new public prosecutor will deal first and foremost with the infringements for which an immediate recovery is imposed. Mr De Wit has described it as some sort of collection agency. At the same time, however, I read that the magistrates of the traffic park are given the power to prosecute traffic infringements in the broadest sense. So that's bigger than just the collection of traffic fines. For example, the new parquet can also appear in a file that is not started through the immediate collection. More specifically, you are quite clear in the explanatory statement to Article 48. I quote: 'While it is not initially intended that magistrates of the road safety authorities should also intervene at possible hearings, this cannot be ruled out in the future. It will be the road safety prosecutor, who will arrange the service for the members of his parish." Mr Minister, this draft law even makes it possible for a member of the Road Safety Office, provided that the agreement of the relevant prosecutor of the King or the Labour Auditor can temporarily observe the office of the Public Prosecutor in the court of the King or the Labour Auditorate. The opposite will also be possible. A magistrate from another parquet or auditorate can also perform temporary assignments in the new parquet. All this can be read literally in the explanatory statement. The fact that you put all this into the explanatory memorandum of the draft law strengthens me in the belief that there is no real need for a new market, but that the existing police parks and structures need to be strengthened with more resources and manpower. Minister, this is not only contrary to what I read in your entire explanatory statement, which is very unclear, but also to the positive opinion of the College of Public Prosecutors. That opinion clearly states that the Office's mission on road safety should be to take over certain administrative and logistical tasks of the first instance prosecutors relating to the files initiated by an immediate recovery so that they can focus on the files of more serious facts. Furthermore, it maintains that the police departments of the prosecutors continue to be responsible for the decision to subpoena and those for the hearing, having regard to the fact that they are best placed to assess the processing capacity of the police courts. In other words, the College of the Public Prosecutor gives a very detailed overview of the tasks of the new prosecutor and makes it very clear that action before the police court cannot be taken. But that is not mentioned anywhere in the text and is also contrary to what is stated in the explanatory memorandum. It is particularly important to clarify this issue fully and unequivocally. Mr Minister, the High Council for Justice has rightly, I believe, expressed the fear that in future there may be differences of opinion between the new road safety and police stations. You replied that the public prosecutor will draw up a circular which lays down the rules for the distribution of files and the tasks between the road safety authorities and the other public authorities. But that's not what you're preventing by sending a tour letter alone. There needs to be more clarity. I continue to ask why you do not choose to strengthen police patrols and give them more resources and men to improve the legitimate fight for greater road safety. Why, for example, can there not be clear guidelines from the College of Attorneys General for the sake of uniformity in the field? If you choose to install a new parquet, why choose a new traffic park? Why didn't you choose a court order responsible for tracking down and prosecuting, for example, perpetrators of partner violence, intra-family violence and sexual violence? The subject, which is very topical, has been discussed in detail in committee in recent months, and the creation of a separate court would be justified mutatis mutandis in relation to the huge problem of partner violence, intra-family violence and sexual violence. What kind of balance of interests have you made? Do you intend to create additional parquets in the future? For example, in the fight against the huge drug problem and all forms of crime associated with it, the creation of a separate police force capable of acting nationally would justify. The same applies to a court in charge of the detection and prosecution of terrorist acts and their financing, or a court in the fight against tax and financial fraud. So why set up a separate court for one form of crime and not for the other? As far as the right to defence and the right to a fair trial are concerned, I am again free to refer to the criticism of the Supreme Court of Justice, which fears that the complete automation of the traffic infringement management process, in particular the crossborder system and the payment order, will be done at the expense of the rights and duties of the seeker and, in particular, of the right to a fair trial. You may say in your explanatory statement that the fear of the Supreme Court of Justice seems unjustified, but there is a very big difference between something that would appear to be unjustified and something that would prove to be unjustified. You state in your explanatory statement: "The CBE platform helps, contrary to what the Supreme Court claims, the law seeker, as the fines are made available in an accessible, accessible and quick way via the e-box and on the website of the FPS Justice." You say that it has never been easier to challenge a fine, because you can simply fill out the form via the website. Here you are going through a very brief twist to refute the criticism of the Supreme Court. You forget that part of the population still does not have an e-box and a computer. We discussed this in committee, but more than 20% of the population still have no computer and internet connection. You can send several letters to offenders and assume that everyone has to contest certain findings, whether or not they have been made correctly, but you must also take into account a number of other arguments. For example, there are older people who cannot answer because they do not understand the content of writing or people who have studied less long and do not understand what to answer and how to formulate a dispute. What if people don't understand what the breach is about? They will then have to begin to contest things that they do not know to challenge, but they will have to pay if the infringements are not contested. You say that it is generally about traffic offences the facts of which have been established or which have not been contested, which, in your opinion, means that the intervention of the court does not always have an added value. However, the fact that this does not always have an added value should not result in its exclusion. What happens to the right to remain silent, Minister? You do not take into account that someone has the right to contest the facts for the time being pending access to the criminal record. I refer here to correcting matters, in which one of the Salduz conditions that need to be communicated in advance is that no one can be obliged to incriminate themselves. In other words, one has the right to remain silent so that when the investigation is concluded the person in question or his lawyer can have access to the file, in order to build up the defence. With the present system that is no longer possible. I warn you of this, and I am not alone in this, because the Supreme Court of Justice, undoubtedly more authoritative than our group, also issued a warning. I would not like to feed the people who are acquitted when there was no initial dispute. By this I mean the form that is sent when someone is informed of a committed offence. The person concerned shall then be deemed to return that form to the prosecutor, which, however, is not the case in most cases. Administrative errors, material and legal errors can still give rise to acquittal. In the new system, all these people would be forced to pay. In addition, the magistrate often has the opportunity to sentence a person to a fine and/or prison sentence. How will this be implemented in practice? No dispute, so then the fine will be executed? What happens if a prison sentence and a fine are to be imposed? I do not think any of these arguments are taken into account. In doing so, I have made a number of critical points concerning the introduction of the new road safety market. However, the draft law goes much further than the title suggests. You must admit that this law is a new form of potpourri laws. Part of it can be supported by our group. I mention the arrangement for referees, parole lawyers and criminologists. However, the Supreme Court of Justice is also very critical of this. If there are sufficient budgetary resources to employ additional referenda and prosecutors, the Supreme Court states that these funds should be used as a priority to complete the legal frameworks of the magistrates of the seat and the court. Minister, I think this is a right point of criticism. The flexible staff frameworks and a lack of analysis have already been cited by Mr De Wit. Despite the promise that this would not happen again, these temporary frameworks will be renewed. This week, if I am not mistaken, I was given the opportunity to discuss this matter quite recently. Criteria still need to be laid down at the moment, whereas zero measurement of workload should, in principle, take place from 1 January. That's eight days from now. The criteria have not yet been laid down and much remains to be done. I am not going to repeat this week's full discussion, but it remains an important point of attention. Other amendments were made, such as the notarial power of attorney, the signature of the authentic instrument and the Company Code. I won't list all of them. I would like to stress something very important, because I have also discussed it in committee in the past in connection with the discussion of the budget. The extension of the time limits for the submission of supporting documents under the second-line legal assistance is positive. He'll get our support. At the moment, these deadlines are far too short. I hope that, when things calm down in committee, we will be able to discuss this, as you promised, in order to see how this extension can be structurally anchored. That is why we support you. Then you come to the last with additional Amendments Nos 49 to 52. They are not your amendments, but those of the majority. For example, this draft law seeks to re-implement early release measures. This was the first time with KB number 3 of 9 April 2020 and the measures have been extended several times. This was not provided for in the original text. In all honesty, this does not belong in the draft law, because it has absolutely nothing to do with the introduction of a road safety ban. Let there be no doubt about it, our group has a great deal of understanding of the difficult situation in prisons. I very much understand the very difficult conditions in which prison staff have to work, including the many people who are ill or who must remain in quarantine. You gave figures on this last week. There is now a new possibility of early release because of the corona state and the infections. In the explanatory statement to the amendments, I read that it is added in one breath that this amendment is also introduced because of the overpopulation in prisons. The discussion we had here a few hours ago will not be repeated entirely. However, the overpopulation in prisons is an old very that should have been dealt with a long time ago. For decades the various ministers have simply ignored this problem. Unfortunately, today you still do not have sufficient capacity to enforce the penalties. That is the real reason for overpopulation in prisons. We can't always link this problem to corona. You cannot continue to prolong these measures, which is completely contrary to your ambition to make justice more criminal and to the Prime Minister's commitment to the Government's declaration that all punishments would be carried out by this legislature. Road safety is an important objective, which everyone supports, but it needs to be addressed by appropriate means. This is not by introducing a new road safety market, but by strengthening the existing structures and by increasing the chances of catching up. In committee, you announced that you would like to proceed very quickly to introduce this new parquet. This also does not correspond to the opinions, not even the positive opinions. I refer, for example, to the positive opinion of the College of Public Prosecutors, which you support with the principle in itself, but which clearly advocates that the preparation of the creation of this new public prosecutor should be rigorous and not hasty. This choice is a wrong choice and will not really increase road safety in practice. I am really not convinced that this will work more efficiently, quickly and uniformly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u43	Madam President, there is a reference to the situation in our prisons. The measures we are taking, of course, have everything to do with the fact that corona is beating wildly. In free society, that is no different than in our prisons. Prisons are closed communities and are, by definition, more susceptible to infections and diseases. The number of sick prisoners by corona has risen from 38 to 185 since 15 November. The number of contagions among prisoners rose from 1,677 to 2,218. The prisons, despite a good vaccination campaign, do not escape the problem of corona. The same applies to our staff. The number of sick staff has risen to 1,290 since 15 November, when there were 944. That's plus 37% at a month's time, of which 61 people are effectively quarantined. So we are forced to take action and we are inspired by the good work done by my predecessor. You refer to KB No. 3 of April 2020. This has inspired us to repeat a number of punctual measures for, among other things, the pressure in prisons and the fact that we need to make room for quarantine there. It's not the first time we've done that, we've done that. We have learned from the past that this was a good measure. Then why not take the same measure again? Ladies and gentlemen, the main theme of the debate is, of course, the road safety policy. I do not doubt the good intentions of those Members who say that they too consider road safety to be important. However, it seems to me that this is the only thing we are doing in the field of justice and that this is, of course, the only absolute priority, is far from the truth. We are also very active in many other areas. I refer to the fight against organised crime. Last night I gave the figures of the number of people locked up in the fight against organised crime. It is run by the federal court, Mrs Dillen and Mrs De Wit. It's a nationwide prison that runs the fight against organized crime. We will do everything we can to fight that battle properly. We're introducing a port ban. There's gonna be a port attorney. We are active on all fronts in order to be able to fight this battle properly. I also refer to what we are doing in the area of sexual criminal law. We have done very important work in committee to rewrite that Code. We have the care centres, which give rise to more declarations. We have a better policy of prosecution. That fight doesn't let us go either. We put a lot of time and energy into that. The same applies to the execution of the sentence. It has indeed been postponed by corona, but we are providing for an additional EUR 91.5 million and 820 additional places for the execution of the short sentences. Once corona is over, so will we. So let there be no misunderstanding, we are making all the phenomena, and of course I am forgetting a few, a priority. However, I would also like to do so for road safety. The situation on our roads is dramatic, ladies and gentlemen. This is not a phenomenon that affects only Flanders or Wallonia, it is a phenomenon that affects the whole country. In 2019, 644 people died on our roads. That's terrible. This involves 644 families affected, brothers and sisters, parents, grandparents, children. They're terrible stories. The story of the parents of crashed children keeps burning on my retina. One of the most difficult and emotional encounters I had as mayor of Kortrijk was with parents of crashed children. They ask politics to do something about it. The most important thing to do is to increase the chances of getting caught. Mrs. De Wit says we need to increase our chances of getting caught. Mrs Dillen, I don't think you'll argue with that. What this government doesn't do is raise the fines. That's what the previous government did. That's a choice. This government has chosen to increase its chances of getting caught. This means, in concrete terms, that more checks are being carried out. More checks will increase the chances of getting caught, won't they? We're not gonna argue about that, are we? Mrs. De Wit, what's the problem with the chance of getting caught in our country? That is the fact that we do not fully use the instruments we have to increase the chances of getting caught. The Walloon, Flemish and Brussels Road Safety and Mobility Ministers install route checks, but half of these checks do not work. You know that, don't you? Not in Wallonia, not in Flanders, not in Brussels. They don't work. Why aren't they working? Is there a technical problem? No, the problem is that the prosecutors and the police don't have the capacity to handle that. That's the problem in our country. What we're doing here is just providing capacity, enough people and resources to process the data. We agree that it is the best way to prevent too high a speed. The mayors here in the hall will confirm that. Mr. Raskin is here, too. Everyone knows that. There is no discussion about that. An investigation has been carried out on the route between Wetteren and Erpe-Mere. In one year there were 56% fewer accidents due to route checks. There's no discussion about that. What's the problem? Mr Raskin also points this out in committee. Too many trajectories don't work. In Wallonia, margins are used which are far too high. One doesn't flash until 145 km per hour. A different method is used in Flanders. In Wallonia, margins are used. In Flanders people work with quotas. Do you know what one does in Flanders? They turn it on for a week and a week. That is the traffic policy at the moment. No one here can defend that, right? However, that is the situation. The question then is how to solve it. If we increase the chance of catching up, Mrs De Wit, if all the systems work as they should, then the amount of offences will increase from EUR 5.5 million to around EUR 8 million, or plus EUR 2.5 million in additional offences. Mrs. De Wit, that's increasing the odds of getting caught. The question then is how we can provide additional capacity. There are two possibilities. The first possibility is what we have been doing in our country for decades, especially strengthening those local parquets. That is the solution you are advocating. You say that we need to strengthen the local offices, and if we allocate more people and resources to them, then we will eliminate these margins and quotas. I would like to, but the practice of the past few decades has shown that this does not lead to a solution. Despite the fact that there is today from the College of Attorneys General a letter saying that they should not use margins and quotas, many public prosecutors do so. Mr Raskin and Mr Van Hecke know that, and I have been asked these questions. The best-kept secret in our country is the margins and quotas. That's unlikely. I put that question to the College and with some hesitation, and I think it has also given me some shame. I'd like to share that information with you. You know me. If we look at these figures, the problem is not a problem of Flanders versus Wallonia, but a problem within Flanders. There are parquets where there are hardly any margins or quotas and there are parquets with huge quotas. Brussels is a great highlight. You know the situation, where zone 30 doesn't flash until 47 kilometres an hour. That is the reality. This is not a matter for Flanders against Wallonia, but it is a matter between different parquets and different arrondissements with different solutions. Mr Goffin said in committee that if he drives from Brussels to his own municipality in Wallonia, he passes four districts with four different margins and quotas. That's unlikely. Actually, that's random. If we continue, as we have been doing for decades, we will continue to face that situation. We don't want that, because we need to reduce the number of road casualties. Our country is doing terribly badly in terms of road safety. Do you know that France, Spain, Italy, Germany and the Netherlands are doing better today than Belgium? Today we are in the peloton with the Czech Republic and Hungary, a nice platoon in terms of road safety. You will not deny me, as Minister of Justice, that I am doing so. I think this is as important as the fight against sexual violence, as the fight against organised crime, as the fight for punishment. The solution that you advocate, continuing as we have been doing for decades, will not solve this. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's That is not going to solve this, because the public prosecutors will still be able to decide whether they are using margins or not, whether they are using quotas or not. Why do we opt for a national road safety watch? Because such a parquet will impose uniformity. It is that parquet that will determine the margins and what the quotas are. The task of that parquet will be to cut margins and to abolish quotas, step by step, by means of the reinforcement we are providing. We recently, as you know, launched a pilot project with 5 route checks in Wallonia and 2 in Flanders to see what would happen if we were to eliminate the margins in Wallonia and the quotas in Flanders. Suppose those systems work every week, instead of a week, and a week doesn't. In Wallonia, we have used a margin of 129 kilometres per hour, for the sake of clarity. Some of your partymates sometimes make a caricature of that: the minister wants to flash from 121 kilometers an hour. The reality is in our country: 129 kilometers per hour. On the mileage counter, 132 kilometers per hour. They're gonna flash. There are other situations in the Netherlands. With us, the technical margin is respected. We have started these pilot projects, and we will soon be publishing their results. What is my intention, Mrs. De Wit? Raise the odds of getting caught. My absolute goal is that everyone abides by the rules, that there are no fines, that there are no returns, and that the number of accidents falls dramatically. That's my ambition. Why do we opt for a rural parquet? Firstly, with a view to uniformity. In other words, uniform rules for the whole territory. And indeed, to get rid of what you're saying here. How is it that in Flanders people are much stricter than in Wallonia? I'm glad you're advocating a national approach, a national approach, a federal approach. I'm glad you're arguing for that. Of course it cannot be explained that one parquet does not catch one and the other does. That's inexplicable. Secondly, we are doing so because such a national road safety watch will account for 80% of the offences. That's about instant innings, that's about people driving too fast. You're familiar with these violations. There are a thousand of these violations a day. Those are regular violations, which are pretty quick to finish. That does not imply many interventions or discussions. It's just a matter of paying. You know that, don't you? We do that every day. By the way, from the start of crossborder in 2017 by the previous government we do this systematically. People pay. That large bulk will be handled by that rural parquet. This will be done in an efficient way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u44	So what's left for the local parquets, colleagues? That is where we want to pursue a better policy of persecution. After all, we are seeing today that there is still being dismissed, sometimes even when it comes to accidents involving poisoning. In certain cases one cannot keep up with the CVs and has too little capacity. So we say that the vast majority of violations and current practices are dealt with by the national court. The heavier infringements, injuries, repeated accidents, requiring more specialisation, are dealt with by the local public prosecutors. We are also strengthening them, both at the level of the parquet and at the level of the seat. So, Mr De Wit, it is not about the 6% that is not being paid today. It is about the 2.5 million additional violations that will occur if we increase the chances of getting caught and adjust the system effectively. You have again raised an argument that I will not go into too much, particularly why we are not doing so for sexual crimes. I told you that almost every perpetrator in that kind of crime has a different profile. So it's a totally different thing. In the event of traffic breaches, the suspect's profile in most cases has no relevance to the detection of the offence. We have an experience, by the way. Mrs. Dillen, we have a federal prosecutor when it comes to terrorism, organised crime. That works well, as you know. By the way, the division of tasks between the national road safety authorities and the local authorities will be carried out by means of a letter, just as we do for the federal authorities. Questions were also asked by Mr Dillen about Rule 48. In the first instance, the sessions will be accompanied by local parquets. At a further stage, it can be considered whether the road safety authority can take care of this. This will be determined in consultation with the college of the PGs. You also referred to a provision which states that a member of the Road Safety Office may also temporarily hold that post, subject to agreement. The idea behind this provision is simply to respond to possible questions from local parquets to intervention. This provision therefore allows the road safety authority to offer its expertise when requested. The college of PGs will therefore indeed take a debrief, as is the case for other subjects. We will, of course, ensure that this is properly monitored. Mrs Dillen, you reminded me that I should not underestimate the fact that a number of people are unable to follow up on certain issues. Mrs Dillen, you know that in the event of a traffic offence, a letter is systematically sent not only to the eBox, but also to the ordinary classic mailbox, if there is an eBox. That's still happening. People can object. As you know, this can be done digitally but also on paper. There's a call center, where up to 4,000 phones come in a day. Today, 94 percent of the fines are paid, as you know. Such figures indicate that the vast majority of people are able to pay the fine. You will return to the right to remain silent. This law does not alter the right of silence or the right to refuse to appear before the court. We will not change that. Let's get that straight. Colleagues, we are consciously taking a step in the road safety approach here. It's something new. The vast majority of opinions were positive. The Supreme Court had a number of doubts, but that was before we modified the project. We have done so explicitly. I am glad that, as in France with this draft, we can put our country again in a better position in terms of road safety. We had the choice, which is to continue as we have done in recent years, and we are still faced with margins and quotas or a new path and a new approach. We shall do so with the road safety watch.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u45	Mr President, Minister, I shall only repeat very briefly. After all, it is not intended to repeat the debate. First of all, you refer to the situation in prisons today because of the coronapandemic. You also refer to the decisions taken in 2020. Minister, I am not avoiding them either, but of course we are now in the fourth wave and almost two years later. I often hear you say here in the hemisphere that we never thought that we would have a wave again, although that wave is always perfectly predicted. What I would like to point out is that a policy-maker must always anticipate this situation at all levels, both at the level of health care and at the level of the prison system, and provide additional capacity. That's where the shoe pinches, and we both know it. However, you have had time to do so. It's now 20 months later. So there's already been time for it. The extra capacity would not be lost at all. After all, the overpopulation is there anyway. The additional capacity could then be used to further solve the problem. Secondly, I shall now turn to your road safety watch. I repeat that road safety is also essential for our group. I do not want to give the impression that this would not be the case, because we would criticise one of the solutions you are proposing to meet that security. Every road kill is too much. I myself am mayor of the municipality with the blackest crossroads of all Flanders, along the A12, so I know something about that. We are trying to intervene on this ourselves, including possibilities for GAS-5, but the more or less kaduke legislation on this makes it more difficult. However, that is a completely different story. Nor did I claim that this is the only priority for the Justice Department. You yourself made a top five and there is road safety in it, but there are indeed other things that could have been included in it. However, that is a choice. You say that there are other margins everywhere and that we must limit them. That's the best kept secret. I do not even question that there should be uniformity, but I am merely asking whether a new entity is needed to achieve that. I do not get an answer as to why this could not be done through uniform directives of the LAGs, because in other areas we do so in this way too. You would prefer not to issue any fines, because that means that everyone abides by the rules. I can even follow that reasoning, but you have to say that to the Secretary of State for the Budget, because you are applying EUR 100 million in the budget. You also say that you want to increase the chance of getting caught and to increase the capacity so that more can be checked. You used the perfect word there when you said that all of that must be processed. That is my point, Minister. You set up an entity to be able to process it. That's what you've literally said, and so to be able to collect. There will be no policy on such a road safety section, but that is actually just a paid collection agency. You can say what you want to say that this has nothing to do with Flanders and Wallonia, but with differences between arrondissements, but it is a fact that there are many more flashlights in Flanders than in Wallonia. You yourself say that route checks are the best means: there are five times more in Flanders than in Wallonia. Of course, an important condition is that they work, but there are de facto more that can be put into effect if there are uniform directives and if there is processing capacity. It remains a fact that you will set up a new entity that will process and collect the fines and that for that you can't avoid it at the Flemings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u46	Minister, I would like to express two reservations, briefly, because we already had the opportunity at the committee meeting to discuss them in detail and I do not want to repeat them. Firstly, you say that the prisons form a closed whole. However, with sufficient capacity, there would have been more room for prisoners to stay separately. For almost two years, since the Royal Decree of April 2020, criminal execution has been postponed or prisoners have been released early. That must not be postponed, it must finally be stopped. The early release is in stark contrast to reality. I am now restricting myself to Antwerp, because I know this situation in practice. I will not talk about the other judicial districts, but I assume that the situation is very similar. It is not about serious criminals or suspects in the framework of, for example, the Sky ECC file, but about people with a short sentence, so less than three years. Compared to your bill, the contrast is that short-term people are called with a prison letter to report to the Begijnenstraat. Since that is in stark contrast to what you are trying to do, I wonder why this is not being put on hold, why the punishment is being carried out for those people and not postponed. That is a mystery to me, and it is completely contrary to what you want to achieve with the amendment. Secondly, with regard to road safety, you make it clear that I said that this is your only priority. I didn't say that at all. I refer again to the last night's debate on the budget. Within your policy, there are many more priorities, some of which our group can even support, contrary to what the President of the Chamber, Mrs Tillieux, accused me last night, if we are only critical of the criticism. You know well enough that this is not true, because we can also support many of your priorities and I did not say that the road safety watch is your only priority. Traffic safety is indeed dramatic and exists both in Flanders and Wallonia. It is very important to increase the chances of getting caught, and it is a fact that the available instruments are not being fully used today. Make sure that if those instruments work, ensure sufficient capacity, eliminate those margins and quotas. It is very important that the arbitrariness in the traffic policy that is being pursued in this country should disappear. Much attention must be paid to this. I maintain that I fear that the introduction of a new road safety market is not the right instrument. I believe more in strengthening the local parquets, put the resources into that. One final comment, Minister. It is perhaps a detail, at least it did not come out in detail in your reply. You say that mostly regular violations will be attributed to that new public prosecutor. I continue to have a hard time with that when those regular offences by one person are actually a form of recidivism. In this case, it is not possible to get rid of it simply with a fine, which is often too easy. You should also pay attention to this and work out alternative punishments for hard learners offenders. These cases are mainly speed offenders, because from the moment when driving under the influence of drink or narcotics, they almost always move directly to the police court, where the police judge can take recidivism into account and increase the penalties imposed on them. So do something about recidivism with what you call regular violations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u47	Minister, I did not intend to take the floor here, but now you are referring to me. Mr Dewit has already clearly expressed our position on road safety. Let me come back to the figures of the margins used in the various parquets. It is a pity that we do not get it, although we have asked twice. The first time you said you did not have any figures because they are not systematically kept in a single database. You said you'd call them in and talk about it. Since you didn't, I asked you a second time. You said at the time that you had received these figures, but the College of Attorneys had asked you not to share them with Parliament because this would jeopardise road safety. During that meeting I noticed Mr Van Hecke's spicy reply, one of the majority. He literally said, "I have the impression that some parquets might have something to hide." He suspected that some tolerance limits might be remarkably high. Then I wonder why we don't get those numbers. I respect your decision, Mr Van Quickenborne, but are you obliged to follow the advice or question of the College of Attorneys General and not share those figures? Can you make your own assessment of that? Is it also your inner conviction that sharing the figures would jeopardise road safety? What effectively jeopardises road safety: excessive tolerance limits applied or sharing these figures with Parliament. You may be obliged to follow the advice of the College? Is that right? Or is that your own interpretation and choice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u48	I would like to come back to this, because the discussion is very interesting and, apart from the figures, also in principle. Minister, we say and you acknowledge that there are differences in enforcement in this country, in terms of quotas and limits. We all feel that these figures are unacceptable. We are therefore also asking a parliamentary question, to which you say you cannot answer because the public prosecutor is asking you not to report these figures because it could pose a risk to road safety. This is, of course, the world upside down. However, road safety is not threatened by our question, but by the attitude of the public prosecutors and the decisions they have taken. They're turning it around. Minister, if you didn't know, I'll tell you today: I'm a big fan of yours. That doesn't mean I always agree with what you're proposing, but I'm one of your fans because you're doing your job with a lot of energy and fearlessness. I wonder, therefore, if you have such a great fear of the parquet that something is not telling you when they ask you nicely. I thought Minister Van Quickenborne himself would decide whether or not to share something. A little in the vein of "that's what you don't determine." You demonstrate voluntarism, persevere and are not intimidated by lobbyists in the gambling sector, to give an example. But if the parquet doesn't ask you to share numbers, then you don't. I honestly don't understand. I understand that you must work with the College of Attorney General, which is not always easy, and you must have a good understanding with it. Still, I might put them on the spot. You could tell them that you owe that answer to Parliament, that you have to answer. You could possibly give them a few weeks or months to put their house in order, but you have to tell them that you can no longer wait to make those figures available because Parliament is entitled to do so. Parliament controls the executive. The power of law passes figures on to the executive, but it does not pass them on to the legislature. I think that's weird. We cannot accept that, and you must also give that signal to the Justice Department and the prosecutors must clarify this. I repeat: it is not the answer to the parliamentary question that leads to more road safety. Today's practices in the arrondissements lead to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed striking that we have managed to collect these figures for the first time in 2021. Apparently, no one had ever thought about getting those numbers. It is also the first time that the Public Prosecutor's Office and the College of Attorneys General have drawn that up. It was our country's best-kept secret, because so far it has been a privilege of the parquet that, in consultation with a mayor and the local police area, has established certain margins of tolerance or quotas. From time to time, that information became public. In Brussels, the tolerance margin in zones 30 is 47 km per hour. It is the first time that the College of Attorney General has collected this data. At certain parquets and perhaps even mayors there is a certain restraint. They use 50 margins in certain zones, 30 or zones, which may be wondering whether they can see the light of day. I have expressly insisted that this should be spread. I was asked not to. That is not so important to me, but the most important thing for me is that the margins and quotas disappear. If you ask me for voluntarism, I will go into that in the sense that the national road safety authority will finally ensure that these margins are abolished and quotas reduced. The prosecutor's office, the public prosecutor's office or the College of Attorneys-General have no excuse for using that kind of margin and quota any longer. We not only establish the national parquet, but we also strengthen the local parquets and police courts. This government makes the choice to increase its chances of getting caught. The excuse for under-capacity will no longer be possible. Every time we cut margins and abolish quotas, we will announce what they were and what they will be. Indeed, it is unacceptable that margins are being used in this country, which is self-evident that this system is not okay. I'm glad that cover is finally being made. In the old days, most people didn't mind riding the "Jean-Marie Dedecker-wise" "Jean-Marie Dedecker-wise" for 47 km/h in a zone 30. The risk of death in a hit-and-run at 30 kilometers per hour is one in ten, compared to 50 kilometers per hour is more than one in two. That's the difference between a zone 30 and a zone 50. So it's not ideology, it's facts. With this government, supported by Mr Van Hecke and hopefully also by Mr Raskin, we want to get rid of this instrument and this law. So, Mr Raskin, I am counting on your support, and perhaps you can still convince your groupmates. The way in which you make a point of this at committee meetings is a credit to you. For example, you ask questions about the route checks in Flanders, which were not sufficiently connected. Your anger about that is justified. Just keep going, like so far, with parquets that each one decides for themselves, you can't do that anymore. We must create an instrument to finally get a grip on the persecution policy of the public prosecutors and to make the margins and quotas disappear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u50	Minister, with my apologies, I am almost on the verge of calling in a personal statement. I don't know about the plowings in Kortrijk, so I don't know how a mayor in Kortrijk intervenes in margins and quotas, but in our police zone I have never been involved as mayor in the determination of margins or quotas. On the contrary, we are systematically asking for checks. We ask these questions because we want to be policy-driven. We want controls in the dangerous places. For this reason, as a local government, we really want to have the tools in our hands. However, the decree of Flemish minister Peeters to do this effectively and politically is still not in order. We do not want it to be merely a catch-over, we want to act where it is really necessary, where we can make a difference, where it is dangerous for weak road users. You're insinuating cases about mayors and talking about the best-kept secret, but it's never happened to me. Maybe in Kortrijk, but not where I am mayor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u51	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u52	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2328/9) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2328/9) The title has been amended by the committee in "Bill introducing the Public Prosecutor's Office for Road Safety and laying down various provisions on judicial organisation and justice". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law introducing the road safety law and laying down various provisions on judicial organisation and justice." There are 119 articles in the bill. The draft law contains 119 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u53	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u54	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u55	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u56	Mr President, the draft law has undergone a genuine transformation through several amendments by the majority. This is not always a good thing for the hygienic debate in Parliament. If we include all kinds of new provisions in a draft law, for which it was not originally intended, it will all too often lead to patch and tap. The main elements of the draft law are the extension of quarantine leave and the introduction of small leave for parents to go to a vaccination centre with their children. First, however, I would like to examine the chronology of this bill. The way in which the government has dealt with the time available is a reflection. The government has already decided on 29 October 2021 to extend vaccination leave. It was not until 9 November that the government asked the Council of State for an emergency opinion. The Council of State met on 10 November to give that opinion on 16 November. That opinion instructs the government to seek the opinion of the Data Protection Authority and, if it were to amend the draft law on the basis of that opinion, to refer it back to the Council of State. However, the government has not re-submitted the draft law to the Council of State, even though the Council of State had given it this in its opinion. The question arises as to why that did not happen. I asked that question in committee, to which the Minister replied that the draft law was amended in accordance with the opinion of the Data Protection Authority and that part of the opinion of the Council of State was therefore ignored. I assume that the Council of State had good reasons for giving its opinion a second time after the amendment on the basis of the opinion of the Data Protection Authority. However, the government did not give home. That's what makes me think. The answer in committee was not sufficient to justify why that part of the Council of State's opinion was ignored. On 29 October, the government decided to extend vaccination leave. She waited a long time to seek advice from the Council of State. Then part of that advice was simply ignored. It was not until 3 December that the draft law was submitted to Parliament and asked for it to be dealt with urgently. That also gives cause for thought, because there was plenty of time. The motivation for the urgency was the vaccination for twelve to eighteen-year-olds. At that time, however, in Flanders, it was on full swing. More than that, 85% of that target group had already been vaccinated. As an example of running behind the facts, that can of course count. For the sake of understanding, the NV-A agrees with the principle that parents should have the opportunity to accompany their children to a vaccination centre if they are invited to do so and consider it necessary and useful to have their child vaccinated. However, the way in which this legislation was implemented could have been a little better, to put it mildly. The NV-A agrees with the principle, but we do believe that the time given to parents should be limited to the time that is really needed. We think that is important and we do not have the impression that this guarantee is incorporated into the legislation as it is now presented to Parliament. Secondly, there is the quarantine policy. That measure now exists for almost two years. For example, parents whose children cannot go to school because the school or class is closed have the right to remain at home to vouch for the care of their children. At first sight, that can, of course, make sense. It is true that a 17-year-old teenager can take care of himself perfectly. Parents should be given the opportunity to take care of the organisation of childcare where necessary, which by definition is not necessary in the case of the 17-year-old child care provider, but their implementation should not always be with parents. It is therefore important that the measure before us should be more precise, so that a real need can be met, not a supposed or possible need. Otherwise, there will be no fine-meshed work and regulation will cause too much inactivity while strictly speaking this is not necessary. We will therefore abstain in the vote on what is now before us, not only for reasons of substance but also because of the way in which we have worked. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are abstaining, above all, on account of the fact that you have taken part of the opinion of the Council of State on a festive basis. This is a reflection and I hope that it will be one of the good intentions of this government for next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u57	Mr Anseuw, we have already had a very extensive discussion on quarantine leave in committee. In view of the current situation in schools, I am, frankly, very satisfied that parents can make use of it. It's a way to catch their children given the number of infections and the number of classes that need to be quarantined. You keep saying that it has to be finer and more needs to be met. I wonder how you'll fill that out? Parents of 16-year-olds, who can take care of themselves, I do not think they will accept temporary unemployment, because that is also accompanied by a certain loss of income. People won't just take that for fun. One child is not the other, one sixteen-year-old is not the other, and especially if there are several children at home at the same time, it may get a bit out of hand. How can we judge this from the legislation? I don't think it's up to us to judge that. You always say that we should place responsibility on the people, and I think that we should do the same in this regard. Let us lay the responsibility of parents, who can first and foremost assess what is necessary in terms of care for their children and how their children behave at home. Let them decide on the basis of their own judgment whether they accept their right or not. How can you judge that from here in their place?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u58	I'm glad you're getting the insight that's progressing. You yourself state that not all 16-year-olds who have to stay at home because the school closes need the parents to vouch for them. However, this legislation renews the right of parents to remain at home. We must at least be able to register the principle that this is only there for the time it takes to organise the shelter and not to carry it out on its own. However, that is something that has been ignored. We are not the only ones to say that, Mrs Vanrobaeys. A week and a half ago, a very interesting report was produced by the Court of Auditors on all the support measures issued by the federal government in the context of the covid crisis. This shows that all these aid measures are, firstly, not sufficiently fine-meshed and, secondly, that the objective pursued by them is not sufficiently clearly defined. That's just what's going on here. You remain deaf to this and think that we do not want to approve it because we are in opposition, but we are very consistent. For two years now, we have been calling for more precise measures. I fully agree that, in the first days and weeks of the covid crisis in March-April 2020, a long time ago, therefore, it was necessary to switch very quickly, making it impossible to implement that fineness immediately. However, after two or three months, an initial evaluation of the effectiveness of a number of measures and the way they are implemented was already possible. This was not done by this government for any measure, while the excesses and improper use of many of these measures continues. However, it is extremely difficult to go back to remedying and correcting a number of issues for people who have been wrongly using certain aid measures. You will say otherwise, but the facts are what they are. That is what we are blaming this government for. She lacks opportunities to refine a number of things. What's wrong with taking those odds? There has been enough time to fine-tune a number of things to the real needs, not to suspected needs. Okay, we're differences of opinion. You believe that the government should take the widest possible place with the widest possible support measures. We believe that the actors in our social and economic life who really need support should receive very targeted support, based on real needs. However, even this exercise is not even launched by this government after two years. That is our fundamental criticism. The Court of Auditors has also said this in so many words. I think that these are enough arguments to make an effective adjustment. I would also like to conclude, Minister. I hope that it will be one of the good intentions of you and this government to make real progress next year on the finer adjustment of aid measures, if they prove necessary in the context of the COVID19 crisis, on the basis of real needs and not of suspected or presumed needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u59	Madam President, I wanted to say a few words about this important text for environmentalists. Indeed, it is a time when we propose solidarity with two types of public. It is a way of recognizing not only the work that one fact and the specific situation of the other. First of all, with regard to the support offered to parents at a time when parents are in dire need of support when they have children whose schools have closed or whose crèches cannot accommodate them. It's extremely complicated. It is known that reconciling parenting and work life is a huge challenge. This is a particularly huge challenge from the perspective of equality between men and women. This subject has been the subject of a lot of debate in committee. Of course, it is important to support parents so that they can accompany their children, when they choose to have them vaccinated, or when the child cannot attend their school, nursery or centre for children with disabilities. This solidarity with parents is extremely important to environmentalists. Contrary to what we hear, we do not take days of temporary unemployment out of pleasure. We take days of temporary unemployment when we are parents to look after our children, because we need them, and in that sense this bill responds to them and goes in the right direction. I have already had the opportunity to stress this in committee. And no, it is not only useful in the first days, at the moment when it was necessary to organize! It's useful, it's almost two years later! Our young people and our children have the right to be treated properly and with respect and proper supervision. When they are unable to attend their usual place of life, school or nursery, it is important that parents have a solution that is structurally proposed so that they can be with their children and are not drawn between their work and their children who are in special need. This echoes precisely when the National Bank has just released a report on the effect of parenting on the career, especially on women's. Obviously, we must continue to propose measures to support parenting, which is really important for ecologists. And I hope that this proposal can be used as much for fathers as for mothers. This is indeed a factor of equality in the workplace. The second target in this bill is the securities service sector. The concept of quality employment has been extensively discussed. For ecologists, a good job is also a job where you feel safe. This provision makes it possible to take into account the very special situation of women service workers. I say "workers" because this sector is made up of 98% of women who work in the homes of users. This provision gives them a tool to enforce compliance and to enforce safety in their workplace because controls are less easy than in a large company. This provision, which supports the quality of work and the safety of service workers, is in the right direction. We will be pleased to support all of these provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u60	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think it takes too many words to say that the Socialist Group supports this bill. However, it still takes a few to remind some of the obvious. Vaccination occupies a central place in the fight against coronavirus, even if we know that it is not the magic solution, nor the absolute solution, nor the complete solution. However, it must be noted that it has severely limited the transmission of the virus and the extent of the disease in people with the disease. We must therefore continue to vaccinate as many of our fellow citizens as possible. Meanwhile, economic life continues, even if it is affected by health measures, including telework. In a number of situations, telework is a solution but it is not always possible for all. I am thinking in particular of situations where the child cannot go to school because the class, school or crèche is closed or because there is hybrid education and distance learning. In short, we must take these situations into account and ensure – what this project does – a replacement income, the right to temporary unemployment for workers who would be affected by these situations, including accompanying a minor child to vaccination. This is something that I want to stress as being very positive and necessary because it corresponds to a reality. You have to say it and repeat it. The other part concerns workers in service securities. We have already talked a lot about this, Minister, both in committee and in this House. These workers, since they are mainly women, who visit the homes of the beneficiaries of their services every day, are exposed over time to significant risks. This project includes additional health measures. We look forward to it. It is my colleague Sophie Thémont who has often asked you about the subject, but it is a concern of the Socialist Group as a whole. We fully support the measures taken in that direction. For these two main reasons, we will fully support your project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u61	A lot of critical comments were made on this draft bill, not least from the Council of State, which continued to oppose as long as the Data Protection Authority had not given an opinion. Despite statements by the Minister in committee that this did happen on a previous draft, it remains a very relevant question from the Council of State. Data are processed of persons who are not in employment with the employer, as well as the children of employees. The Minister refuses to do so, and our group regrets that. Moreover, the whole vaccination dossier is becoming increasingly problematic in terms of privacy. For the Flemish Interest, whether or not to vaccinate remains a free choice of free citizens. This freedom has been taken massively in Flanders, with a vaccination rate of about 93 %. We look at the vaccination of children in the same way. The parents or guardians enjoy free choice and that choice is respected by us. We also want to facilitate that choice. It is clear that the law of 28 March 2021 needs to be amended in order to extend the vaccination campaign. But the adjustment is coming too late in the past two years during the corona crisis: the vaccination campaign for young people under the age of 18, which started at the end of August, is in full swing and today, on the eve of 2022, you will take care of it little. By the way, in extending the scope of the draft law, you had already forgotten a certain group of people, the majority of disabled people and those who are permanently under parental custody or possibly another guardian. They have more than anyone the right to assistance to go to and from the place of vaccination. However, Minister Lalieux, responsible for persons with disabilities, had earlier announced that for all new legislation I would underline all legislation - a disability test would be carried out. What we feared then was true in the preparation of this bill:parole, parole, parole. Today, we are pleased that Mr Samyn's and myself's amendment on this matter was quickly translated into French, so that the majority could also table and approve the same amendment. My group is looking at the content of the drafts and not at the political colour of the proposers. We shall therefore support the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u62	Minister, we will support the project on the table. I would like to go back to various points, starting with the extension of the vaccination leave - i.e. the low unemployment - for the parents of children who are going to be vaccinated. We will support this extension because, in our view, it creates the necessary conditions for vaccination without penalizing workers, who will retain their income. Our purpose here is not to interpret the purpose of this bill, namely, the possible obligation to immunize. Nevertheless, a blasphemy is to be regretted with regard to the opinion we have received from the Council of State on the need to seek the opinion of the Data Protection Authority. We regret, however, that the government has not done so, especially in the light of the latest scandals related to the Bruvax platform, allowing employers to know who was vaccinated or not. We believe that the government has failed to be vigilant in this regard and that this is not a good signal. Today we are going to have to be pragmatic because we still have to vote for this project. I think you said yourself that you did have time to ask for it and vote on time, so this is a slight flat. We will also support the extension of the temporary unemployment scheme, which will allow workers to keep their children who do not have the opportunity to attend the crèche, school or reception centre for disabled people. Here we have tabled an amendment so that these workers can retain their income. Currently, temporary unemployment is equivalent to 70 per cent of wages. We have often had the opportunity to point out that, for many families, losing 30% of their wages is simply unthinkable, if not untenable, especially since the people concerned do not have the possibility of teleworking and are part of the sectors that receive the lowest wages. Today, given the rising prices of fuel, energy, shopping baskets and wage freezes, it seemed important to us to take advantage of the opportunity to introduce this amendment. People are put in situations where they have to choose between keeping their child by losing part of their salary or going to work to make sure they have their pay to make ends meet. In our view, it is the government's responsibility to put in place the necessary financial conditions for these parents. It is therefore a social issue and a very important issue at the health level to prevent the spread of the virus. We will support the second part, that is to say, the articles on domestic aid for service vouchers, such as the provision of sufficient numbers of oral masks. It is aberrant to note that it is necessary to come to the drafting of a bill so that these workers can obtain it. This shows that returns were not very positive in this respect and that many employers in the sector did not respect and still do not comply with the basic rules of protection. This article will apply until 31 January. We thought there was a typing error! We have checked its accuracy in the Dutch text. It's January 31st! The project has not yet been signed and the time it will be implemented will be there! We wondered if Vivaldi thought that by February 1st, masks in this area would no longer be necessary! We have therefore introduced an amendment, which we call moderate, since we propose to extend the measures until 31 December 2022. Unfortunately, it is very likely that, with the current situation, this will not be enough and that it will still have to be extended. We were wondering about the method you will use to monitor its implementation and to monitor employers' compliance with this provision. Again with regard to domestic aids, we support a very important point, namely the article allowing the worker who finds that he/she cannot start or continue his/her day because the health conditions are not met, to be able to leave his/her place of work. These important demands came from the field. Here too, an amendment has been introduced. Indeed, in our view, the conditions set out in this article so that the worker can leave work and get safe are too strict. Indeed, the project provides that the worker must notify his or her employer. This seems to us to be quite logical, but then, if the situation persists and cannot be rectified, the family worker must contact his employer again to ask if she can leave. What do we do if he answers no? Like the field, it is thought to be a form of infantilization of these women, because they are mostly women. They have enough experience and professional awareness to know when it is really useful to leave work or not. I give an example. A lady arrived at her beneficiary's house. There was a medical certificate after the doctor passed. The client had a positive income test at the covid. The gentleman does what he can. He's half-autonomous. What are we doing in these cases? The time to call your employer, it still needs to be available, etc. It's not always obvious. We also have some reservations about the condition that, if the worker does not have an answer from his employer, he can leave only if half the duration of his benefit is exceeded. You can imagine that it's a few hours. In a situation that is not healthy, we can still quickly become infected. We are tabling three amendments. We hope you will support them. For the rest, we will vote in favour of this progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your support for this text and for your questions and comments. As a member of the executive, it is important to be able to hear the comments and criticisms made by the opposition. Mr Anseuw, I admit that things have not been optimal in terms of timing, procedures and form. As regards the opinion of the GBA, I believe that the opinion of the GBA was requested for the original text. It was also taken into account. This draft law is an extension of the original text. The conditions have therefore been incorporated in this text. In this way we have, I think, not neglected the opinion of the Council of State but made sure that its fundamental remark is taken into account. We have, in fact, taken into account the comments made by the Privacy Authority in the original text, which was amended as a result of this opinion, in particular with regard to the indications which may be made by the employer of applications for vaccination leave for the worker or, in a second stage, for the child of a worker. I believe, as some of you have said, that the measures proposed here are essential, necessary measures that are part of the policy to combat the virus. We must do everything possible to prevent the spread of the disease and to ensure that all obstacles to vaccination and quarantine are avoided. With the measures that are proposed, I think very modestly that we are contributing to this. Finally, with regard to the important issue of service titles and Mrs Moscufo's particular question of control, it is a request from the inspection services and also in response to an opinion from the legislative section of the Council of State that we should have a legal basis for the obligations of providing masks, hydro-alcoholic gel and the various provisions concerning the safe organisation of work on the ground. We must have a legal basis to ensure that inspection services in the field can carry out inspections and possibly monitor and punish employers who do not comply with these rules. That is why we are introducing these provisions which were initially envisaged in the framework of the ministerial decree of the Minister of the Interior. You see that we are taking into account the opinions given to us, in particular that of the legislative section of the Council of State. The introduction of these provisions here in this bill addresses this legitimate concern expressed both by the Council of State and by Ms. Moscufo, namely, the need to be able to organise a monitoring of compliance with these obligations on the ground. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these are some of the answers to the questions that have been addressed to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u64	Mr Minister, first of all I would like to thank and appreciate the fact that you take my comments on the course of this draft law to heart and acknowledge them. That is a great achievement, and it distinguishes you from many of your colleagues. I don't think they were given to do that so humbly. I say that with all my heart and no irony. With regard to your reading of the opinion of the Council of State, we differ. Apparently, we're reading something else. In its opinion, the Council of State took account of the fact that you would amend the original text following any comments made by the Data Protection Authority. The Council of State anticipated this and said that if you did, it would give its opinion on the amended text. You failed to do so. You seem to have a different reading of that opinion. I thought that was a pretty clear advice, but done business doesn't take a turn. In future, perhaps the opinion can be read in its entirety and taken to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u65	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u66	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2342/6) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2342/6) The title has been amended by the committee in "Bill on Temporary Support Measures Due to the VOCID-19 Pandemic". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law providing temporary support measures as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic." The bill has 9 articles. The draft law has 9 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u67	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u68	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u69	Els Van Hoof.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u70	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1858/5) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1858/5) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur is Mrs Verhaert, who refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of positive points in this motion for a resolution, such as the emphasis on reception in the region. As mentioned during the discussion in committee, the follow-up of the UNHCR approach to structural building conflict prevention and nationbuilding is problematic. In Afghanistan we see how disastrous this attempt at nationbuilding has ended. In the current circumstances, we can transform Islamic countries like Syria into our Western values, as well as Afghanistan. We regret this. Not only does it cost a handful of money, but above all it does not lead to a better future for the local people in need. This proposal also talks a lot about strengthening humanitarian aid, but the situation in Syria is not stable everywhere. Especially in the north and east of the country there are still regularly armed conflicts between Assad, the Kurdish authorities, rebel groups, IS and Turkish troops. Furthermore, the question arises as to whether humanitarian aid is not dangerous to aid workers and could not fall into the wrong hands. Can we at all guarantee that the aid will be safe to meet the most acute need? In addition, the concept of voluntary return is discussed. We should be able to return Syrian refugees who lived in safe and stable areas. You know our opinion on this. You know that the Flemish interest strongly opposes the extension of the Turkey deal with Erdogan. Nevertheless, this proposal speaks of the additional release of EUR 28 million over the next four years for the Facility for Refugees in Turkey. This will once again give the keys to our European external borders to the Erdogan regime. He has power over our asylum policy and can threaten to open up borders whenever Europe criticises its aggressive foreign action or its internal repression of opposition. This EUR 28 million could have been better spent, in particular for reception and support in the region and for investment in the protection of the European external borders. The Flemish Interest supports the spirit of this resolution, namely humane reception for refugees and a lasting solution to their difficult situation. We cannot support the implementation of a number of principles, including nationbuilding and voluntary return to the Turkey deal. We would have initially abstained from this resolution, but for the sake of the amendments tabled which we believe strengthen the issues that we cannot subscribe to, we will vote against this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 15 March 2021 we had the anniversary of the Syrian conflict. The word birthday is a bit cynical because it is in that region crying with the hat on. There is the greatest refugee crisis in the world. Half of the original Syrian population is on the run. Syria itself was the scene of war crimes and crimes against humanity and it does not stop there. There are 6.6 million Syrians on the run and 1 million of them are scattered across 130 countries. The vast majority, 5.5 million people, are in the region, in Turkey, in Lebanon, in Jordan, in Iraq and in Egypt. In addition, 6.7 million people fled within Syria itself and were displaced. António Guterres, UN Secretary-General, called it a living nightmare in March; there is still a living nightmare in that region. The Norwegian Refugee Council also says that there will probably be 6.5 million more refugees if it continues in this way. This resolution is reflected in what is stated in the coalition agreement, namely humane reception and local integration in the region itself. Mrs Samyn also referred to it and said to support it. A nexus must also be found between humanitarian reception and structural development aid. Crisises continue to last these days. People are displaced and go to other countries in the region, but are not always well received. This gives rise to many conflicts and tensions, including in those countries themselves. How should this be implemented in practice? Mrs Samyn, you list the things you are against, but you do not give what you are for, in what way, without giving any additional problems. This builds on what UNHCR says about this, namely the durable solutions built on three elements. Firstly, it is a question of safe, voluntary and dignified return; secondly, it is a question of integration into the region; and thirdly, it is a question of resettlement, if tensions arise in certain countries as a result of the refugee crisis. If we want to opt for safe, voluntary and dignified return, then the question is how we will organise it. Good news, most Syrians want to go back home. Syria was a beautiful country for Assad. I've never been able to visit it myself. There are many tourist attractions and the population is highly educated. Many Syrians long to return to their country. However, when they return, they will be arrested and hunted down by the Assad regime. They find their homes in ruins. There are no essential services for their children. In their place you wouldn't want to return either, even though you love your country. We must ensure that the criteria for safe, voluntary and dignified return are formulated. For this purpose, the UNHCR has set a number of thresholds. These are the Protection Thresholds and Parameters for Refugee Return to Syria. That is quite a mouthful, but we are actually asking in this resolution for a monitoring mechanism to be put in place so that refugees know that they can return safely. After all, what is the point of sending people back when they are being hunted again and have to flee again? That is a pointless vicious circle against which we must fight. This resolution therefore calls for a monitoring mechanism to ensure that the thresholds are met in order to be able to return. Secondly, we are also asking for the local integration and quality reception of refugees in their host communities. There are 6.8 million inhabitants in Lebanon. In addition, there are 1.5 million Syrians. You can understand that this creates tensions in society. There is also poverty, there is also a covid crisis. The international community must not close its eyes. We must also ensure that financial resources are made available to Turkey, Egypt and the other countries. It is easy to say here in our region that we do not care. Put your hands behind your back and we'll take it easy. I think that we should set up new funding mechanisms at European and international level, because the previous ones are exhausted. We must contribute to the flexible humanitarian country funds. We must also use our own Belgian development cooperation. We made it clear in the coalition agreement that Syria is a focus region. I think that we certainly need to pay attention to this for our own safety and well-being. Minister Kitir has also been on the ground and has made sufficient funds available for this purpose. She was shocked by the situation. I think we should all take a look on the ground to see what we are arguing about here. This would be a good way of providing funding for social and peace-building in the region. That deserves our development money on the spot. That is what we are calling for in this resolution. Thirdly, resettlement must not be taboo. I have spoken about the disruption in Lebanon, which is plagued by all kinds of attacks. As far as children and other vulnerable groups are concerned, we must ensure that resettlement is possible. UNHCR is also in favour of this, and I would also dare to do so. The absorption capacity in the region should be measured in order to determine when resettlement is needed in order to avoid additional conflicts resulting from this disruption. The crisis in Syria has been going on for ten years. A whole generation of Syrian children has grown up in abominable conditions, without education, without education and without prospects for employment in that region. We just carry on, it's almost business as usual. President Assad is re-building his contacts with Heads of Government in the region, but there is no possibility for the already more than six million refugees to return. We must do something about this. We must not close our eyes. We must not forget them. I would therefore like to thank all those who have contributed to this resolution and supported it. So I hope for a positive vote later. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u73	Mrs Van Hoof, I would like to return to your criticism. As I said in my speech, we believe that more resources should be invested in the region itself. You asked me what we would do about it. We can invest more resources in education and infrastructure so that these people can return effectively. So we do have an answer to that. After all, nobody wants to go back to a house that was completely shot. So help those who do want to return. Invest in infrastructure, health care and education in their own region, making them feel at home. After all, everyone feels the best at home in their own habitat.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u74	Support this resolution, because this is exactly what it is advocating. Don't start vetoing this country and that country will. I just can't. They are in that region and we must ensure that they are properly received and, of course, that we are not being blackmailed. There are not ten solutions possible. There must be shelter in the region, spread across the various countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, we will of course support this resolution. We also support the spirit of this resolution, because it is based on a certain humanitarian reflex and also because the fate of Syrian refugees needs to be improved. Additional international efforts are needed. They must also be better coordinated, including on the ground itself. The conflict has just been outlined by the previous speaker. We are considering a conflict that has been going on for ten years now. There has actually been a legitimate rebellion against Assad's autocratic regime in the context of the Arab Spring, but over time it has been hijacked by a number of great powers. We must not forget that, of course. There is also an important geopolitical dimension of which the Syrian people have been victims. Not only does Russia have a particular agenda there, but also a regional superpower like Turkey. The same goes, of course, for the West, which supplied certain weapons to the Free Syrian Army, which then ended up uncontrolled by all kinds of fundamentalist groups, who had no affinity with democracy. However, at least we can see that 6.6 million people are still fleeing, internally displaced persons, but also refugees who want to find temporary accommodation elsewhere, who want to live their lives and who want to re-establish themselves somewhere sustainable. This resolution is rather euphemistic about the Syrian region. This means, in practice, as has just been said, countries such as Lebanon and Iraq, which already have huge problems, including the large numbers of refugees. Lebanon now captures most refugees in the world per capita. The proportions have just been outlined. In addition, Turkey and Jordan, which already receive millions of Syrians. I should also like to say that the European Union has always played an ambivalent role in this. Several European Member States have had a rather selfish reflex. They wanted to receive as few refugees as possible. Now we see effectively that a great deal of attention is now being paid to strengthening the external borders, almost militarizing them, in order to keep as many refugees as possible out. A kind of pushback or detachment policy, with a sad highlight in recent years, when we look at the islands on the Aegean coast. A sad low point was that EU Commissioner von der Leyen tried to smooth out the folds with Turkey, in order to restore the cynical deal for stalling and stopping refugees in Turkey as much as possible. Like many others, of course, these are the consequences of a certain amount of interference. The European Union or some of its Member States, including NATO, have always been in favour of ill-thought-out unilateral interference. Think of Iraq, think of Afghanistan, think of Libya, but also Syria. Afterwards, people stick their heads in the sand and do not want to bear the consequences. What needs to be done in reality is twofold. On the one hand, the war in Syria must indeed be definitively ended. That sounds like kicking in an open door. A solution must be found for Idlib and the territories occupied by Turkey, on the one hand, and for the de facto American occupation of Syrian oil sources and grain fields, so that Syrian infrastructure and the whole country can be rebuilt. Of course, this will require full negotiations. We have seen the negotiations in Geneva, which have always gone wrong. This must be restarted and all parties brought around the table so that the conflict can be ended and the millions of internal and external refugees can return home safely. In the meantime, what is very important and unfortunately prevented in the requests of this resolution is the fact that the sanctions regime against Syria is still in place. Now that the war has been fought in many parts of the country, of course, there are still those European and American sanctions which are still the main cause of the wretched situation in which the Syrian people are currently living. If we ask for these sanctions to be lifted, unfortunately, one of the resolution's requests for them not to be lifted is to enable sustainable reconstruction and to allow the majority of refugees to return. Criticism has come from the so-called Humanitarian exceptions, in order to spare the population as much as possible. Not only by us but also by the UN rapporteur on human rights of the United Nations. Those sanctions have proved to be ineffective during the pandemic, but also in other cases. At worst, they make any help or reconstruction impossible and at best they create hopelessly cumbersome and bureaucratic obstacles. If we take a closer look at the situation of the Syrian people, regardless of whether they are involved in the conflict or whether they have not chosen a party, we will find that they have been severely affected by the ten-year war. However, they also suffer from one of the strictest sanctions that have been imposed. The sanctions have been imposed by the United States by the so-called Caesar Syria Civlian Protection Act which has been in force since 20 June 2020. This year, the World Food Agency points out that since last year, the number of people in food insecurity has increased by 4 million and now affects 12.4 million people. That's about 60% of the Syrian population. The lack of fuel also caused by sanctions, of course, exacerbates this situation. Almost a year ago, in December 2020, the UN Special Rapporteur, due to the negative impact of these unilateral coercive measures on human rights, called for these sanctions to be lifted because they constitute a flagrant violation of human rights. In March 2021, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) reported that 13.4 million Syrians needed humanitarian aid compared to 11.1 million a year earlier. An appalling 90% of the Syrian population is now living below the poverty line and 60% to 65% live in extreme poverty, especially those 6.5 million internal war refugees who are now particularly severely hit by the sanctions. Those are numbers to be confused with. The European Union's sanctions are targeted, but they are, of course, interacting with sanctions that have been imposed by other countries, with the white-collar sanctions of the United States and with sanctions against a number of Lebanese entities suspected of being associated with Hezbollah and also with the overall breakdown of the Lebanese economy and banking system, where many Syrians had their money and which is also closely linked to the Syrian economy. The European Union's sanctions also interact with the white sanctions against Iran, which severely restricts its capacity to provide aid to its self-declared ally. Of course, this will add to the ruinous context of the surrounding countries. The recent history of Iraq is known to everyone by the invasion of the United States. That country has also been destroyed and has long known an occupation. There is also the hostile attitude of Turkey and, of course, the American military occupation of the Syrian grain fields and oil wells. Of course, climate change is not helping either, because there has been a prolonged drought for a very long time. With this nuance and reserve, we naturally support the spirit of the resolution, but we in the committee have expressed our opposition to the request that sanctions be maintained. We don't support that. We voted against the request for sanctions to be maintained, but of course we will support the whole of the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said a number of times today: the Syrian conflict is entering its second decade. For over ten years, it's been war. There is the leader who kills his own citizens, bombs them, starves them, uses chemical weapons against them and makes them flee. IS is still not completely defeated and continues to sow death and terror. The suffering of all of this, as is always the case in a war, is the population of Syria. Colleagues have already explained it well: since the start of the war 13.3 million people have fled, 6.6 million people outside Syria and 6.7 million internally displaced. As a result, Syria has been a world leader in the number of refugees since 2014, which is a very sad record. Indeed, most of these refugees are taken care of in neighbouring countries, amounting to 5.6 million people. Behind these figures are people: men, women and children, each with their own story. In committee, I also referred to the fact that one of those stories is clearly illustrated by the photo "Hardship of Life," which means "life deprivation," by Turkish photographer Aslan, who won the prize for photo of the year 2021. His photo of a Syrian refugee in Turkey shows the Syrian war very painfully. In a new report from the Refugee Protection Watch, the North-South Dome 11.11.11 together with local partner organisations raises the alarm about the living conditions of Syrian refugees. If they want to return to Syria, they risk forced annexation to the army, arbitrary detentions and a life in fear of Syrian security services. Moreover, the poor economic situation in Syria has led to enormous poverty, widespread hunger and the lack of many essential services. Access to services such as electricity, food, education and healthcare is also very limited in Syria. That is why there are increasingly so-called re-returns, where Syrians who have already returned to their country today indicate that they want to flee that country again. 40% of Syrians questioned indicated that they were considering this, which actually means that the refugee crisis simply continues in this way. That is why we need a comprehensive and more ambitious strategy and response to the Syrian refugee crisis, based on the UNHCR's framework of sustainable solutions to international refugee crises. The government is already working on this. In September 2021, Ms Kitir, the Minister for Development Cooperation, visited Jordan and Lebanon. She visited several refugee camps, spoke with people on the ground and indicated how shocked she was by the situation. That is why EUR 8 million is already earmarked for additional aid to Syrian refugees in the Middle East. Our country continues to invest in flexible funds from the UN and there is also a structural contribution through Enabel and through projects to give young people opportunities. It is therefore important that Parliament continues to support this work. That is the merit of this resolution, which contains a number of requests. I would like to highlight some that are also of interest to my party. In this context, it is important to further support civil society initiatives to promote sustainable solutions to the Syrian crisis. It is necessary to focus on strengthening the self-reliance of Syrian refugees and strengthening the capacity of local civil society organisations in the region, so that, as Mr Van Hoof said, the focus can go more from humanitarian to structural aid. It is therefore also important that these requests include an active study of whether Belgium can make a greater contribution to the reconstruction in Syria itself. I think it is important to mention that. We also support the request that Parliament at European and international level repeat the message that a safe, voluntary and dignified return to Syria is not possible until the conditions are met. In order to do so, we need to use UNHCR's Parameters for Refugee Return to Syria as a standard in order to assess the situation in Syria and determine whether a monitoring mechanism should be set up. In addition, we ask the government to speak consistently against any violation of the principle of non-refoulement. This is also explicitly included in these requests. This resolution therefore receives our full support and we thank Mrs Van Hoof as its initiator.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u77	Madam President, in the resolution before us, we read a number of fine words, such as active pioneers, extra efforts and special attention. Unfortunately, these fine words sound a bit hollow, because I wonder whether the government is really being forced to do things that the government has not done so far with regard to Syria. The conflict has been dragging on for a long time, since 2011, a decade of daily bloodshed and suffering. For our group, it is important to note that it has been enough. The time has come to focus on the return of refugees, but the text actively avoids the term return. In the initial text, for all the amendments, there was still the weakness of a monitoring mechanism to check the conditions for return, but after the text was filtered by the majority, which took some time, the final resolution text stops "actively examining whether the mechanism should actually be set up." I think I can say that the demand for the government is completely undressed. For the rest, almost all measures aim to consolidate reception in the wider Syria region. If the majority cites the deteriorating conditions caused by covid in those camps, but also the increasing tensions with the local population and the fear of demographic engineering, then I think the logical conclusion must be that an active return policy must be pursued urgently. However, we must recognise that the efforts requested by CD&V are mainly aimed at reception in the region, which increases the chances of returning to the country of origin. So the idea is certainly not entirely unneged. However, there needs to be an increased financial effort for local care. For us, this must go hand in hand with the introduction of the Australian model on migration, as you know. A link with our own measures, including a concrete reform of migration and refugee policies, is completely lacking. It is and will remain a text of the vivaldi parties, perhaps the different visions will be in front of something. The government is also asked in very conditional terms to open up its portfolio in many areas, for example for flexible UN humanitarian country funds, for the Madad Fund, for the non-governmental cooperation programmes for 2022, for the budget allocation for social construction and for the budget allocation for peace-building. How much that all has to be concrete remains unknown. The question was asked how much that should be. It was said at that time that it should be additional, annual and significant. That is all we know. That will then be watered down by the coalition partners until they study to do so. Here too, there is not much left of the initial text. Moreover, it is strange that that question should be asked. After all, when we look at the budget allocation for peace-building, on which the authors build hope, we see that it will be significantly reduced in the coming years. Questions can therefore be asked. Just as unbelievable is, of course, the final question to the government. It calls for efforts to be made to prosecute all persons who commit or order war crimes within the framework of international criminal law. Colleagues, in view of the fact that repatriated female FTFs are today at large in our country, it seems important to me to first wipe their own doors before speaking the high international word. Ladies and gentlemen, because of all the previous comments, we will not support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u78	Madam President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, of course Parliament cannot commit a sum, but I can tell you that great efforts have already been made by Minister Kitir, even this year. There is EUR 18 million going to various EU and UN mechanisms, which is not nothing, including EUR 3 million going to the Madad Fund this year. 28 million euros also went to the Facility for Refugees in Turkey. That is a lot of resources for development cooperation. For me, we can continue on this momentum. That is also the signal we want to send out with this resolution. I hear you support the spirit, but I haven't seen any of your alternatives to how to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u79	Mrs Van Hoof, there is a demand from all sides to open the wallet. The problem for us is that peace building is being used, while we see in the projections that this net is being phased out. Then it's strange that that choice is made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u80	There is also an allocation for social building. In that sense, they may be communicating vessels. They have peace-building in Foreign Affairs and Development. There's plenty of resources in that. I think there is no problem in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u81	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u82	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later. Ladies and gentlemen, since committee meetings will take place within 10 minutes, I would suggest that the agenda be resumed at 2.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip153x.u83	The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Wednesday, December 22, 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 22 December 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
