ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u1	Madam President, Minister, I have to ask you about a pilot project that was launched in January 2019 by Fedris and which concerns an accompanying journey for workers threatened or affected at an early stage (stage 1 or 2) by a burn-out, following a psychosocial risk in relation to their work. This pilot project proposes to take care of 300 to 1,000 people, mainly financial services and hospital workers – we know how much they are being asked for today – or medical accommodation under private status or APL (provincial and local administrations). They are therefore persons who are in arrears at work and who multiply short work stoppages or who have been out of work for less than two months. The aim of this type of accompaniment is to enable these workers to remain at work or to recover quickly. Minister, what evaluation do you make of this pilot project that was launched two years ago? What was the number of participants in this pilot project? What was the profile of the selected workers? What type of accompaniment could be offered and with what result? Finally, what was the cost of this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi, it is not yet possible to draw conclusions on the burn-out pilot project. Its final evaluation requires waiting for the closure of at least 300 routes to ensure the validity and scientific rigour of the analysis. As of 31 October 2020, only 163 trips had been completed. Fedris estimates that a first evaluation should be possible in the second half of 2021 once this number of 300 has been reached. However, an initial analysis of the first 55 routes completed in May gives encouraging indications of positive impacts. The pilot project seems to ensure its role as a secondary prevention of burnout. We will see if these results are confirmed in the future. At the end of October 2020, 617 screening applications were received, of which 516 were accepted for burn-out diagnosis and 370 applications were accompanied, 163 of which are now completed. It should be noted that 76% of the applications accepted come from the hospital sector and 24% from the banking sector. In addition, 81 per cent of commuters are women. However, it must be borne in mind that in the hospital sector the majority of staff are female. Fedris offers a two-step accompaniment. The first stage of the diagnostic assessment is to allow the worker in the sectors concerned to be assisted by his attending physician or one of his prevention counsellors by a psychologist specializing in the problem of burn-out in connection with the work. This psychologist under agreement with Fedris carries out a full assessment of the worker's situation to confirm or invalidate the diagnosis, and to determine whether the route proposed by Fedris is suitable for the worker's situation. Otherwise, the project is oriented towards another type of support and exits the project. The second stage of the accompaniment can then begin. On the basis of his assessment, the psychologist coordinator of care (the worker burn-out) develops, together with the worker, a personalized care path corresponding to the worker's needs. The journey is flexible because it has to adapt to the needs of each individual according to his or her experience and degree of burn-out. To offer these sessions, Fedris has a network of stakeholders selected for their skills and experience in the field of burn-out, namely psychologists, physicians, physiotherapists, according to the recommended approach. The journey therefore consists of two diagnostic sessions and, at the most, 18 treatment sessions. It may last for a maximum of nine months. In 2017, the total cost of journeys was estimated at between €690,000 and €2,120,000 over two years, with a maximum cost per worker of €2,120. According to the first estimates, in reality an average cost of EUR 1,500 per worker is involved. I am fully aware that the covid-19 epidemic has an impact on the mental health of hospital workers who are at the forefront of dealing with this crisis, as I have personally realized. Therefore, in my view, there is a major issue in terms of occupational health protection. This is why early identification strategies must be put in place for workers in difficulty. The pilot project for the secondary prevention of burn-out already set up by the Fedris agency and identified by the prevention sectors can be one of the links to this strategy. That is why I decided, in consultation with Fedris and following the opinion of its Management Committee, to extend the scope of the burn-out pilot project. As in the hospital sector, in so far as they perform the same functions, medical workers (doctors, paramedics, etc.) and residential care workers for elderly or disabled persons or persons with psychiatric or drug dependence problems present a higher risk of occupational exhaustion than the general population. Particularly affected by the coronavirus crisis, workers in this sector were exposed to the same risks as hospital staff, which could increase their vulnerability. It is therefore important that they can also integrate the burn-out pilot project in the future. The draft royal decree making this adaptation was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 8 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u3	Minister, thank you for these rather satisfactory answers. However, I am slightly disappointed that there is still no full evaluation of this system, but I am pleased to hear that you have nevertheless taken the lead in adopting a royal decree to extend the scope of this pilot project. Obviously, the positive effects of this project were already known to you. In my view, in view of the savings that can be achieved through the measures to prevent burn-out cases, the cost of EUR 1 500 per worker represents an investment that is truly worthwhile. Burnout is a real public health problem, both in terms of the number of people involved and in terms of the severity of its consequences. I therefore thank you for your investment in this project, particularly with regard to healthcare staff. You have read about this famous study by Sciensano, which informs us that a fifth of the healthcare staff is now at a standstill, exhausted and even considering leaving the profession. I therefore believe that it is more than urgent to work to prevent burnout, in order to ensure that our health care staff are able to perform their duties and to vaccinate properly. I thank you again for your efforts in this regard. For the rest, I think we also need to invest in the right to disconnect. With telework, many workers suffer from burn-out due to the absence of a boundary between the private and the professional sphere. For this part, I will not fail to question your colleague, Mr Dermagne. Thank you for the rest, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u4	Question No 55010161 by Mrs Willaert is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u5	The first of my two questions may be deleted, because I have already asked them in plenary and received a positive answer. Minister, last summer the Constitutional Court destroyed the law on non-taxable income. We were able to work with that law until the end of 2020, but then we had to come up with a new regulation. I have already questioned you about this, Minister. You were looking for a definitive solution. You also saw possible options in the 25-day scheme. Eventually, we haven't been able to get everything ready. We then adopted Mr De Jonge's proposal and developed a temporary arrangement for the sport sector, which will apply until the end of this year. When we voted on that bill, we agreed to be ready with a final solution by the summer. It was also made clear during the discussion that we should consider whether other sectors wishing to benefit from a temporary arrangement could join the scheme proposed by Mr De Jonge. What activities do you think we should develop a definitive framework for, in line with the opinion of the Constitutional Court? It is important to determine which sectors can already benefit from the temporary scheme. It seems to me that we should now also choose those sectors which may be able to rely on the definitive system in the future. I do not think it is the intention to give certain sectors hope now that they will not eventually be included in the final regulation. Do you follow my reasoning in that? Are you now planning consultations with all the sectors that could benefit from the association work, or only with the sectors to which the definitive arrangements will subsequently apply? What sectors are we talking about? On the substance, the Constitutional Court had problems with the fact that the scheme was too close to the employees' statute. It is therefore important that, for certain activities, it may no longer be possible to provide for the rules governing the work of association. How do you see this meeting? What consultation have you had? From when will the sectors be able to benefit from the temporary scheme? There will also be questions from the socio-cultural field. Perhaps we should now really continue to help certain sectors with the temporary arrangement, which we approved in December.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u6	Madam President, Minister, on 17 December we took an important step for the sport sector with the adoption of the law on association work. As the honourable Member says, this solution is temporary until the end of the year. Of course, we should be able to establish a definitive legislative framework for the sector, but also, as our colleague said, for other sectors. During the discussions, the sociocultural sector was also examined to see if it could possibly be incorporated into this legislation, in order to make use of the association work. It is also desirable to consider how we will evaluate this. In the meantime, it has already been widely communicated, but it is also important to find out in the field how they evaluate it. How will the Minister evaluate the application of the legislation? Within what time frame could this possibly happen? What other slopes are being investigated to give the association work a legal basis and what timing can we count on? How is the sport sector involved in this exercise? How will the sociocultural sector, which is not now included in the scope, be consulted? How are we gonna get in touch with these people?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u7	Madam President, Mrs De Jonghe, Mrs Lanjri, you have asked me two questions about association work. Debates of the European Parliament 55011127C from the end of November 2020 I have already answered. So today's answer to both of you contains the latest state of affairs in the association work. As you know, in December 2020, partly because of the pressure on time, the government agreed to deal with association work in two stages. First, a temporary solution will be provided for 2021, followed by a final settlement by 2022 at the latest. In committee, of course, we have already taken a decision on the temporary solution, thanks also to you, a good discussion, and we have done legislative work. You know that the temporary scheme was limited to activities in the sports sector, which nevertheless represents 75% of the indicated activities. However, we have also decided to start consultations with representatives of the socio-cultural sector in the broad sense without delay, to examine whether and how they can join the scheme by the beginning of February 2021. Yesterday, Tuesday 12 January 2021, my staff first consulted representatives of the Federation, the umbrella organisation representing Flemish social-cultural adult work and amateur arts. Consultations with French-speaking organisations have also been established. Any extension of the temporary arrangement to other sectors is not on the agenda. A mid-term review to adapt the temporary arrangement seems less appropriate to me, since it is temporary. The current legal framework will of course be analysed. We will take account of its conclusions when drawing up the definitive regulation. However, I do not want to comment on what the definitive regulation will look like at the moment. The temporary arrangement may be a possible starting point. The other proposal that has already been put forward, namely an adaptation of Article 17 of the RSZ Decision of 28 November 1969, can of course also be examined in relation to its merits and limitations, if we continue to address the whole problem. I have indicated before that I want to approach it with open sights. So I'm open to different slopes. The National Labour Council also adopted its Opinion No. 2189 of 15 December 2020 requested without exclusives to examine all relevant and workable slopes. I think it is important that we find solutions tailored to the different sectors and activities, where union work or semi-agoreal work takes place. Solutions which take into account the particular context in which these benefits are provided and which are compatible with the fundamental rules and principles of social security law, labour law and tax regulations must therefore be sought. Only then can we develop a legally secure framework for the very many people and organisations who are constantly committed and thus contribute to our social fabric. In this way, the members of all kinds of organisations can count on good guidance and support, for example, when they exercise their hobby. I would like to discuss the organisation and timing of the final framework with my colleagues Dermagne and Van Peteghem, the Ministers for Labour and Finance. If it's possible, I'd like to do it in a fairly short time. We will, of course, consult with the umbrella organisations of, for example, the sports and socio-cultural sector, but also with the social partners, the National Labour Council, the relevant administrations and other actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it is a good thing that you have already entered into dialogue with the social and cultural work from your cabinet. This is an important sector for which a temporary solution must be sought in the short term. So perhaps they can join the current proposal unless there are other solutions for some functions, such as sometimes volunteering. In doing so, you also indicate that you will not include all the activities previously covered by the law on non-taxable income in your final scheme. I am also pleased that you wish to consult with the relevant ministers, as well as with the social partners, the relevant administrations and the sectors. I just want to say that it is important that we are done with this in time and that we do not see again what we were faced with in December. Then we knew for six months that a solution had to be found, and yet we were not ready in time. Well, we do now. I therefore hope that you will take that time and that we will know before the summer in which direction we can find the solution. Then we can vote on that solution shortly before or after the summer recess. This will also enable the sectors to prepare for the new regime. After all, both the sectors and the administration and the RSZ need time to make adjustments. So I am counting on a solution by the summer and that you will discuss it with all those involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for responding so quickly and for being willing to listen to the socio-cultural and amateur arts. After the legislative framework was completed, they contacted us to see if solutions could be found for them. It is very positive that you reacted quickly and that by 1 February you will be able to give some information on what is possible for these sectors. I also agree with what my colleague has said and I would like to ask for an early ruling on the procedure. In the course of this year there should be a definitive solution. From what I've heard, it could be done in different ways. I assume there will be a return to this committee. In this way, we can discuss the matter in detail and present our points of view. I look forward to the follow-up to this legislative work and to the solutions that need to be found in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u10	Mr. Minister, who takes care of the sick care staff? published an article in De Standaard on 8 December, a fair question. Not everyone who becomes infected with COVID-19 in the healthcare sector can count on the recognition of the Federal Agency for Occupational Risk Assessments. The problem, in our view, is the excessively strict definition for budgetary reasons. We have mentioned this before. The definition does not take sufficient account of the social nature of work for those who cannot work telework, the period is too limited and it was assumed that the situation would soon be under control again. While we have been in a lockdown for two months, in which our leisure activities were mainly reduced and the catering and most of the middle classes have been closed down, the figures have returned to the level in recent weeks and we can conclude from the figures of the inspection services that the workshop is an important source of contamination. The fact that one out of two controlled companies commits infringements raises the following questions. How many applications for recognition of COOVID-19 as an occupational disease have already been submitted? How many of these have been refused? How many applications were approved through the open system? What professionals ask for the recognition of COOVID-19 as an occupational disease? Will you work on source tracing with the focus on a profession? Finally, will you seek to extend the recognition of COOVID-19 as an occupational disease for all workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u11	Madam President, Mr Colebunders, I would like to begin by making it clear that there are certainly no budgetary reasons. The inclusion of a condition for a particular occupational group in the so-called closed list of occupational diseases is always the result of a very thorough preliminary examination by Fedris and has to do with the definition of a occupational risk. A professional risk is distinguished from a risk which may lead to a disease in common law as follows: Occupational activity must involve an increased risk of disease accumulation and that occupational exposure must be substantially greater than the usual exposure risk in daily life. There is therefore a occupational risk where exposure to a harmful effect can be associated with the exercise of the profession and exposure to that harmful effect is significantly greater than the exposure of the general public. It is generally accepted that exposure during daily life is of course the main cause of diseases. This applies in particular to COOVID-19. As you will no doubt know, this is a very delicate requirement which has an important value for the social partners, given the very specific status and nature of occupational disease insurance. The occupational disease code 1.404.03, which already existed in the list of occupational diseases, could be used from the start of the outbreak for health care workers. In fact, they are at a significantly higher risk of infection. In the context of the special powers conferred on the Government and in view of the full lockdown situation, workers in the key sectors and essential services to be employed in the period from 18 March to 17 May 2020 could be recognised under the temporary occupational disease code 1.404.04. In view of the overall lockdown, it was intended to protect those who had no choice but to work and who were therefore more exposed to COVID-19 than the population in general, who went into lockdown. The conditions laid down were the impossibility of teleworking and the inability to respect the imposed measures of social distancing. It can be said that in these cases an increased exposure in the occupational context to the carriers of the virus was objectively present. This term "objective presence" is quite important throughout the doctrine on occupational diseases. That approach was reflected in Royal Decree No. 39 of 26 July 2020. So much for the first wave. Since 2 November 2020, we have been facing a new lockdown, but it is not really comparable to the situation in March, especially when it comes to applying the basic principles of occupational risks. For your first and second questions, the figures I give you have been updated until 12 January 2021. They relate both to declarations submitted by prevention advisers and occupational doctors and to applications submitted by individuals. When Fedris receives a risk exposure report from a prevention consultant or occupational physician, Fedris sends a letter to the person who was the subject of the declaration, inviting him to submit an application. It is about declarations from both the private and public sectors. As you know, Fedris is only competent for employees in the private sector and the employees of the provincial and local administrations. Rejections can happen on different grounds. The most important are: the applicant did not fall within the scope of the laws, e.g. a self-employed person does not fall within the scope of the Act of 3 July 1967 on the public sector, the applications were sent to the public institution concerned; the applicant was not affected by the disease or the disease was not proven; the applicant was not exposed to the typical risk of the occupational disease. Those are the grounds for refusal. Then I get the numbers. For diseases under code 1.404.03, which is the list system for workers employed in the health sector at a significantly higher risk of infection by the virus, 13,666 declarations were submitted by prevention advisers and occupational doctors and 10,238 applications submitted by private individuals. For the 10,238 applications, 3,547 decisions have already been taken. 3.211 positive decisions and 332 rejection decisions were taken. For the disease covered by code 1.404.04 in the list system, 151 declarations were submitted for the period 18 March to 17 May by prevention counsellors and 311 applications by private individuals. There were 32 positive decisions and 13 decisions of rejection. In the open system, 11 declarations were submitted by prevention counsellors and 77 by private individuals. 38 decisions of rejection were taken. These figures appear at first sight to be low in terms of the number of decisions taken, but I would like to stress that since the beginning of the crisis, Fedris has had to cope with a huge workload, which has been accompanied by a huge influx of applications. To put these figures in perspective: for the whole of 2019, Fedris received 2,473 declarations for all diseases together and 8,723 applications for all diseases together. Of course, applications for other occupational diseases continued to be received in 2020 and could not be set aside because of the covid emergency situation. During June and July 2020, 10 additional temporary staff were recruited to process these applications. They came into service in the course of August and September 2020. The new employees were trained and trained and are now fully involved in the various teams that process the requests for COVID-19. The time between the receipt of the application and its registration was thus reduced to the normal level. Two additional staff were recruited in November and additional recruitments are planned, two levels A and four levels C. Internal procedures are also regularly updated to ensure that they are as efficient as possible. Some assisting doctors employed by Fedris have increased their working time to make the many medical decisions. The Budget Commissioner has agreed to increase that number. In addition, applications shall be submitted on paper. There is no possibility of submitting an application via an electronic form. Each application must therefore be manually encoded. The occupational groups applying for recognition as an occupational disease are, of course, first and foremost employees in the health sector and nursing homes. Then there are several other professions, such as people working in the food sector, police officers, babysitters, housekeepers, sellers and shopkeepers, but those other professions are a minority. As for your question about source tracing with the focus on the profession, I asked Fedris, the RSZ and Sciensano to list the available data together at federal level. On 12 January there was a consultation between the staff of these institutions. This has shown that the available data exchange needs to be further refined in order to be usable and that cooperation with the Regions will also be needed to identify cluster outbreaks. With regard to the extension of the recognition of COOVID-19 as an occupational disease for all workers, taking into account the way in which the virus spreads, it is necessary to ensure that the basis of the occupational risk system, as I have just explained, is maintained. Otherwise, we may in future be faced with applications which differ from the basic principles, which jeopardise the benefits involved, such as 90% compensation in the event of temporary incapacity for work and the employer's immunity. Partly on my question, Fedris regularly evaluates and updates the situation in working groups on the basis of advice from the Committee on Biological Agents. Those advices are based on medical data and development. I do not want to anticipate the results of the work on that committee, but I can assure you that, together with Fedris, I take the development of the recognition of COOVID-19 as an occupational disease very seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I have a few comments to make. In order to be able to take targeted measures, source tracing should be directed more towards the professions. We notice that there are certain clusters, which are related and even ignored. Social life is still in an almost complete lockdown. It will now be extended until March. We need to limit social contacts. Many normal social activities are currently impossible or severely restricted. However, Fedris points out that it is equally possible to get infected in the supermarket or on public transport. In this context, I would like to point out that there are also strict measures in the supermarket or in the public transport sector. Where do people actually get infected? Furthermore, the supermarket and public transport are also workplaces and workers, especially shopkeepers, are at risk of being infected there. Minister, you explain that the virus is mainly spread through social contacts; we have heard you on several occasions in the media. But don't forget that a lot of people are still just going to work, and there they have, much more than outside, social contacts and therefore high-risk contacts. Look at Sciensano's numbers. Companies are number one in cluster contamination. Look at the numbers from the inspections. Even in the second wave, half of the controlled companies are in violation of the corona measures. What are we gonna do with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the time allotted: two minutes for the question, two minutes for the answer and one minute for the reply. Although we do not have a lot of questions on our agenda, I invite you to respect the timing for the sake of fairness to colleagues who are travelling to ask their questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u14	Minister, reception parents play a very important role in our society. They give people the opportunity to work or train. They also contribute to a good work-life balance for workers. It is also good for the development of children. Moreover, the demand for childcare is much higher than the supply. It is therefore a good thing that there are welcome parents, but we must also ensure that reception parents have a good status with access to unemployment, sickness, accidents at work, holiday pay and the possibility of building up a pension. A number of years ago, the sui-generis status for reception parents was created. The coalition agreement states that this statute will be reviewed. Minister, how will you deal with the evaluation of the Sui-generis status of reception parents? What have you done already? Who have you been talking to, or who else will you be talking to? Who will you involve in the evaluation? When can we expect the initial results of the evaluation? When will we be able to discuss the evaluation in Parliament, in our Committee on Social Affairs? If necessary, we will improve that statute on a number of points. I think that will be necessary. I hope that we will be able to work on this quickly, after you have evaluated it, as agreed in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u15	Minister, figures from Child and Family showed in October of last year that the number of reception parents continues to fall. The full impact of the corona crisis is still unclear, but it is most likely even more difficult for young parents to find a shelter. On average, there are currently only 45 shelters for 100 children in Flanders. According to Child and Family, the reasons for a decrease in the number of reception parents would be the low wage and the status. In your policy paper, you made a commitment to evaluate the sui-generis status of childcare providers. The obsolete statute should be improved in cooperation with the Minister for Labour and the relevant ministers of the Länder. Minister, what is the state of play in the dossier? What timing do you envisage with regard to the evaluation and start-up of the reform of the Staff Regulations? How does this work and timing relate to the Flemish pilot project "Workers' Statute for Accommodation Parents"?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u16	Colleagues, the government agreement does indeed stipulate that the government will evaluate the sui-generis status of reception parents. In the short term, I will consult with my colleagues Dermagne and Van Peteghem, responsible for Work and Finance, to discuss how we will deal with the evaluation. In addition to the social security aspect, an assessment of the status of the host parents is an integral part of the assessment of labour law and tax aspects. It is important to focus from the outset on which administrations, experts and actors should be involved. Of course, we will also invite our colleagues from the Communities for consultation, because they are responsible for the organisation and financing of childcare. Social protection adjustments at federal level therefore also affect the Länder. It is important to know their priorities and margins immediately. I cannot give a specific timetable at this stage; this will of course also be the subject of consultation with my colleagues and the administrations concerned. However, I would like to conclude the evaluation including the discussion in committee in the first half of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u17	Minister, I am very pleased to hear your answer because you will involve all the actors, including your colleagues in the government and the state governments and experts. It is also very positive that you want to proceed quickly with the evaluation, which we will be able to discuss in Parliament, and that we will hear more of your policy plans in this area in the first half of this year. I look forward to it. On the basis of the evaluation and agreement, in part with the Communities, on improving the status of reception parents, we can then move forward. We need the reception parents, because they take care of our children. If we want to keep people in work and send workers to training, then we must also ensure adequate childcare. Childcare by reception parents is important and we must make their status attractive so that they too build rights in their important work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u18	Minister, together with Mr Lanjri, I am pleased that you wish to conclude the matter in the first half of this year. So you take the cow by the horns. Firstly, the lack of a good statute is, of course, a problem for the reception parents themselves or for those who want to become a reception parent, but let us not forget that, second, it is also a problem for society as a whole. In our society, we expect this to be a good thing for people to work, even though they have to be able to combine it with children, who are now, among other things, joyful. However, many parents find it difficult to provide shelter for their child and we still see many gaps in the policy of combining work and children. It is therefore important to increase childcare facilities for children, and therefore the status of reception parents should be made more attractive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u19	Minister, last week you announced that there will be flash checks in the service sector on compliance with telework. In the first place, checks would be preventive, even if urgent repressive measures could be taken in the case of so-called flagrant offences. The inspector then decides according to the gravity of the facts and the circumstances. The SIOD will check these controls and actions. What is the definition of "flagrant offence"? For employers, it is of course important, if they want to comply with the rules, that there is a clear interpretation of the concept of "flagrant offence." How many checks will be carried out this month? How many inspectors will be deployed for this purpose? What policy choice lies at the basis of focusing only on the services sector? If repressive measures were to be taken, what measures would be involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u20	Mr Anseuw, you are right to point out that these flash checks have a preventive purpose. They are also announced in advance, in general terms; of course they do not say in which company exactly they will invade, but they announce in advance that they will do so. Employers in the controlled sectors can thus make the necessary adjustments to fully respect the existing rules. Inspectors will be coaching or repressive during the inspection, in function of the gravity of the offence detected. With regard to your first question, the concrete number of checks is co-ordinated and carried out locally by the district cells, chaired by the labour inspector and composed of the federal social inspection services. In doing so, account shall be taken of the available capacity of all relevant social inspection services. However, it is envisaged that at least one check day per districtal cell will be spent on these specific flash checks, with a maximum of control teams, each consisting of at least two social inspectors. It is important to note that these flash checks are at the top of the recurrent controls carried out by the arrondissemental cells. Secondly, for this announced national flash control in the tertiary sector, a thousand social inspectors, belonging to the five competent social inspection services and the monitoring of welfare at work, are deployed. These five inspection services are the Monitoring of Social Laws, the RSZ inspection, the RSVZ inspection, the RVA inspection and the RIZIV inspection. Thirdly, the aim of preventive flash controls is to achieve as many targets as possible in the short term. For this reason, it was chosen to focus on the so-called service sector in the broad sense when selecting the targets to be monitored in the context of the flash checks on telework. Such flash controls define a sector or a set of sectors where action is to be taken. The service sector has been chosen because it lends itself best to introducing telework today. The service sector has the majority of employees who very often carry out office tasks. The question is whether telework is happening there and whether it is happening properly. Notwithstanding this focus, it should also be stressed that all complaints relating to non-compliance with the telework obligation, regardless of the sector, are dealt with as a matter of priority by the competent social inspection services. Fourthly, the social inspection services define flagrant infringements as non-compliance with hand hygiene and social distancing sanitary measures. Fifthly, all social inspection services will draw up a pro-justitia when establishing flagrant infringements. If they find that the infringements constitute an acute risk to the health of workers, they may also impose the coercive measures provided for in the Social Criminal Code, such as the cessation of activities, the closure of the undertaking, sealing, etc. These coercive measures will continue to apply until the infringements have been regularised by the employer concerned. Social inspection services may also impose both measures, namely the establishment of pro-justi cies and the imposition of coercive measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your pointy answer to all the questions I have asked. I am not sure how many checks will be carried out. You say that's agreed by arrondissement cell. It's scheduled for one day per cell. Is that one day a month or a week? Of course, that makes a difference in the account. I would appreciate it very much if you could clarify that. I understand, of course, that the tertiary sector is chosen because there is the greatest chance that teleworking can be organised in one way or another. There are arguments for this. Targeted controls could also be carried out on the basis of indicators or determinations. That's a choice that's being made, and there's something to be said for it. If repressive action is taken, the coercive measures can indeed be very decisive and far-reaching. These include breaches of hand hygiene and social distancing. Does this mean that any breach of hand hygiene, no matter how small or large, is the subject of a pro-justitia and, where appropriate, even coercive measures? You have explained very clearly what are actually flagrant violations. I would call for this to be made very clear in future in the context of flash checks, so that companies know what the real concerns are. There are a number of checklists, but it is important for companies to know which offences are flagrant and therefore for which repressive action can be taken. Perhaps that can be included in the communication in the context of the flash controls? Then it is clear to every person involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u22	I thought I understood the matter, but this was not specified in my answer. I suggest that I give you the right answer later, at the sitting, or at a later date. I think I know the answer, but I'm afraid to say it for sure. I'll check and let you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u23	You may also transfer the reply in writing. That's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u24	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our social security system, by penalising people living under the same roof, is unfortunately a source of social injustice. For long-term patients, disability benefits depend on the family status of the person. For a cohabiting person, the allowance is calculated at a rate equal to 40 per cent of the last capped salary, compared to 50 per cent for a single person. If it is considered that the integration allowance paid to a person with a disability must enable him or her to meet certain expenses related to his or her disability, it is very easy to imagine that, for a long-term patient, the expenses associated with the possible care or the adjustment of his or her daily life can be very important. It is therefore incomprehensible that a person is doubly penalized when he or she passes a test such as long-term illness. On the one hand, she suffers a loss of income due to her incapacity to work, on the other hand, she receives reduced allowances because she shares her home with someone who has income. This income inequality in the face of the disease is of particular concern because health spending is known to pose a significant risk of impoverishment. If we add to this that a majority of the beneficiaries of disability benefits are women - 96,961 women compared to 35,638 men for employees in 2018 - we are faced with a system that reinforces already significant gender inequalities in terms of poverty. Minister, while the government agreement provides for future-oriented social security, in a society where new forms of cohabitation are highlighted by the Social Security SPF itself, in a context where gender equality is recognized as a major social issue, how can such a rate for cohabitants remain in the calculation of disability benefits? How do you intend to remedy the inequalities it causes?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u25	Madam President, our colleague Thémont's question is in fact a more general question about the impact and relevance of family modeling in social security. We know that for decades this debate has been very sensitive and very important. By making a shortcut, I can say that I am actually satisfied that during the first period, the first twelve months after the occurrence of the social risk, the family situation of the holder has no influence in almost all social security systems. In other words, during this first twelve-month period, the principle of insurance plays its full part. Very concretely, during the first year of incapacity for work in the sector discussed here, the concept of cohabitation does not apply to the determination of the amount of the incapacity for work allowance, except for the minimum amounts guaranteed from the seventh month of incapacity. I guess Mrs. Thémont is very familiar with the data. From the second year onwards, i.e. from the status of invalidity, the family situation and hence the concept of cohabitation has a clear impact on the determination of the rate of compensation. The notions of dependent, single or cohabiting holder, which are decisive for the determination of the percentage of the applicable gross salary cap, are then taken into account. This percentage will be even higher if the insured person is awarded the status of dependent worker, since in this case the insured person will receive 65% of his capped gross wage. If the worker is considered isolated or assimilated - I will come later - the percentage will be 55%. On the other hand, if the worker is considered to be a cohabitant, he will receive only 40 per cent of his gross salary capped. For the definition of cohabitation in compensation insurance, there are two constituent elements. They must be people who actually live under the same roof; this is the first condition. These persons must form a common household in the form of permanent cohabitation and settle their household issues together; this is the second condition. These two conditions are cumulative. The maximum allowable income of these dependants for the maintenance of the status "with dependent" in the head of the holder currently amounts to EUR 1 010. If this is not the case, the holder shall in principle enjoy the status of cohabitant. However, the legislator has provided for certain exceptions in incapacity for work insurance, precisely for reasons of equity and to take account of new social developments. For certain situations explicitly defined in the rules on compensation insurance, cohabitation is not the only criterion for determining family status. This means very concretely that, for these situations, other elements will have to be taken into account in determining the applicable rate of compensation or the lump sum awarded. The situations concerned concern cohabitation with a spouse or the person with whom the social insured person forms a de facto household, cohabitation with one or more children or cohabitation with one or more parents or allies up to and including the third degree. Thus, in the case of cohabitation with the spouse or person with whom the social insured person forms a de facto household, the presence of other persons is not taken into account. Since the relationship between the two spouses or de facto partners is considered to be exclusive, only the situation of the spouse or de facto partner is taken into account. For example, five people who live under the same roof and who receive work or replacement income. If, in this case, the spouse of the social insured person does not receive income, the latter will receive the incapacity for work allowance at the dependency rate. Income received by other persons living with the social insured person is not taken into account. Another example is cohabitation with one or more children, without a spouse or common-law partner. In single-parent households, cohabitation with the child opens - under certain conditions - the right to family care. The fact that other parents or allies up to the third degree live with the insured person has no impact. In other words, this simultaneous cohabitation does not result in the loss of family status, even if the family earns income. Such cohabitation permits the granting of dependent status, provided however that such persons are financially dependent on the insured person himself, and not on another person belonging to the same household, and provided that the occupational or replacement income, if any, received by the spouse or common-law partner is less than 1 010 euros gross per month. An occupational or replacement income above this ceiling therefore results in the loss of dependent status. However, this does not mean that the social insured person is automatically compensated at the same rate. However, the rules on compensation insurance explicitly provide for the granting of the status of equivalent isolated where the professional income is greater than 1 010 euros gross per month but less than 1 626 euros gross per month, or where the replacement income is greater than 1 010 euros gross per month but equal to or less than 1 111 euros gross per month. In this situation, where a social insured person who is recognised as incapacitated for work cohabits with a person who can in principle create the family charge but whose income is within the income bracket according to the nature of the income, he or she may be entitled to compensation at the individual rate and not at the cohabiting rate. In addition, in some cases, the absence of effective cohabitation does not result in loss of ownership status with dependents. These special situations are provided for in the Royal Decree of 3 July 1996. This is the case, for example, when the insured person pays maintenance on the basis of a judicial decision or notarial act. In this situation, the social insured person can therefore be compensated at the dependency rate, despite the fact that the child does not live with him/her. Finally, in the context of the case law of the Court of Cassation, the granting of the status of dependant is also awarded by the insurance sector indemnities in the case of alternating custody decided by the judge or by notarial act, provided that this cohabitation covers at least two days per week on average. In conclusion, I think that in the case of incapacity for work insurance there is a certain balance which is justified between the family's modalisation of the amount of benefits and the concrete social reality in the situations which must be supported by this amount of benefits. With regard to the health costs to which these persons with disabilities are exposed, I would like to point out that our health care insurance is designed to cover everyone's health expenses as best as possible and that specific measures such as increased insurance coverage, chronic disease status and the maximum amount to be charged have been put in place to meet the high health costs, particularly for those with low incomes. That, Madam President, is a bit factual, which I have provided without really getting into the debate, I must admit. But perhaps these can be used as elements to feed the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u26	I thank the Minister for his concrete, precise and technical response. The agreement of the new government initiates a major step in terms of the price of love for people with disabilities. This is a great step forward that we can rejoice at. But I keep the feeling of an unfinished project. The status of cohabitant continues to have a significant impact on women and other groups of citizens living in difficult socio-economic conditions. Therefore, our social system on certain aspects continues to strengthen inequalities and creates injustices, which runs counter to its objectives. In relation to your remarks, I mean that if you have dependent children, but you live with a companion who works and has an income of more than 1,626 euros gross per month, you are considered a cohabitant. Therefore, these children are not taken into account. We know that today there are more and more families recomposed. There are more and more of them. This also penalizes long-term patients who have finally decided to re-found a family. It seems to me that the current measures are not enough to put an end to the inequalities created by the status of cohabitant. In the current context and more than ever before, there is an urgent need to protect families, especially since this obstacle to solidarity affects families already in precarious situations. I hope that we will evolve to propose solutions that are more concrete.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u27	Question No 55012484C by Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u28	Madam President, Minister, in recent years, flexible remuneration policies within companies have gained in popularity. In fact, as part of their wage negotiations, employers, including within SMEs, are always offering more "cateeria plans": a choice between a company car, hospital insurance, an internet subscription or ironing services, and I am passing on. The number of existing measures is known. These extra-legal benefits are financially beneficial to employers. They often do not introduce new benefits but exchange existing earnings and/or benefits for benefits on which they have to pay less social security contributions. For their part, and often without being fully aware of it, by giving up gross wages, workers are losing in terms of rights. But more generally – and it is on this subject that I would like to hear you today as Minister of Social Affairs – it is the whole of our social system that suffers from such practices. With these extra-legal benefits, social security is deprived of significant income. However, and this is all the more visible in this context of a pandemic, in order to ensure a peaceful future for our citizens, social security cannot under any circumstances be neglected. Minister, what do you intend to do to limit these extra-legal benefits that do not contribute to the financing of social security?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the system of granting extra-legal benefits used by some employers to escape payment of social security contributions is not new. However, the services of the National Social Security Office did not remain inactive in an attempt to limit the use of certain extra-legal advantages granted with a view to optimising remuneration and thus avoiding the payment of social contributions. It should be borne in mind that the concept of remuneration which serves as a legal basis for the calculation of social security contributions refers not only to the consideration of work performed in connection with the performance of a contract of employment or a statutory link, but also to other evaluable benefits of money to which the worker is entitled by reason of the employer's commitment (under Article 14(2) of the Law of 27 June 1969). On the basis of this very broad definition of remuneration, the Court of Cassation, at the initiative of ONSS, recalled in its judgment of 25 March 2019 that a supplement to the benefits granted to the various branches of social security must be designed to compensate for the loss of income from work or the increase in expenditure caused by the achievement of one of the risks covered by the various branches of social security. As a result, a supplement to family allowances, to compensate for a reduction in wages or granted under a system of optimisation of wages, as may be seen in a cafeteria plan, does not meet these conditions. Similarly, the Court of Cassation, also at the initiative of ONSS, recalled, in a judgment of 20 May 2019, that, when the financial advantage is granted in return for the work performed, it must be regarded as remuneration and cannot escape the payment of social security contributions, even if it is a third party that grants such an advantage. This may be the case, for example, of actions granted to executives by the parent company because of certain objectives achieved. While it is true that, in some cases, it will not be possible to subject certain benefits granted to social security, such as equity or warrant options, other benefits, on the other hand, have already been the subject of a regulatory framework in order to avoid abuse. These include benefits provided free of charge by an employer at the disposal of its workers and linked to the personal use of a fixed or portable pc, tablet, fixed or mobile internet connection, mobile phone or a fixed or mobile telephone subscription. The benefits in question were regulated by the Royal Decree of 7 February 2018. As a follow-up, a few years ago, the SPF Social Affairs and ONSS took the initiative to have a study carried out on the existence of different forms of alternative remuneration so as to have a clear view of the granting of these different benefits (their total value, the number of beneficiaries, the sectors of activity in which they are granted) and to be able to assess the evolution of their granting over time. This also makes it possible to make targeted adjustments to the tax and parafiscal treatment of these benefits. Furthermore, it should be borne in mind that both ONSS and SPF Finance, for several additional advantages to sensu stricto remuneration, granted in connection with the performance of an employment contract or a statutory link, ensure, in the interests of consistency and efficiency in order to combat abuses, that their position(s) are harmonised as far as possible. Finally, if certain regulatory reforms are to be considered in order to combat abuses, this should be taken into account, taking into account the tax reform provided for in the government agreement, which seeks, inter alia, to introduce a gradual shift in alternative remuneration towards remuneration in euro.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I would like to point out that, in reality, more and more employers are proposing that workers turn part of their earnings into extra-legal benefits. If this problem is to be solved, there is only one solution: it is necessary to prohibit the possibility of converting gross remuneration subject to social security contributions into such benefits which are less or not subject to them. This is the only way to put an end to practices that I consider to be fraudulent with regard to social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic335x.u31	Thank you, Mr. Goblet. Our meeting today is now closed. We all meet next week. Good afternoon!
