ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u1	Minister, the fate of the English company Greensill Capital makes the iron and steel industry in Liège fear the worst. Indeed, this company valued almost $7 billion a year ago filed the balance sheet at the beginning of March this year. This bankruptcy could put the entire Liberty Steel group at risk, as Greensill Capital concentrated a large part of the group's cash flow. The effects of this balance sheet deposit are already felt, since the ArcelorMittal group quickly announced that it was suspending supplies. Currently, 760 workers in the country face threats to their jobs. The fall of Greensill Capital is not an isolated case. Indeed, the European steel industry is in general danger: in 2020, steel production fell by 40% and new orders by 70% to 75%, while China increased its production by 1.3% in the first quarter of the same year. Thus, the European steel industry suffers from Chinese competition and also has to deal with the major consequences of the pandemic. Minister, in Belgium and Europe, steel production is collapsing. Almost half of the workers are temporarily unemployed or on reduced working time, and redundancies are announced in several companies. Are you considering implementing measures to support the Belgian steel industry, which was once an industrial model in Europe? Do you intend to start a European dialogue in order to draw up an action plan to restart production at EU level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u2	Mrs Thémont, since 2016, Belgium has been part of a plurilateral dynamic with the countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the G20 in the area of steel production overcapacity. Since 2008, this imbalance has been growing, so that the international steel market has shown significant imbalances. Europe and Belgium are actively participating in the work of the Global Forum on Steel Overcapacity. The aim is to be able to drive reforms leading to the closure of capacities in certain areas which have developed a productive overpotential or which foresee significant capacity development. If Asia is to be highlighted as an area of attention, China is particularly targeted. In addition to this action on the international scene, European trade measures are also being taken, together with other EU member countries, to counter the effects of unfair practices such as dumping or subsidies. It is important to combat this distortion, such as subsidies, in order to ensure fair conditions of competition, but also to neutralise their effects on European companies. Europe responded immediately to the measures taken by the United States under Section 232 to defend our industry with rescue and rebalancing measures. This policy is defended by Belgium in order to limit trade impacts and to prevent diversions of trade flows that are detrimental to the balance of the internal market. The extension of these safeguard measures is being examined by the European Commission following a request by several Member States, including Belgium. For measures in respect of individual enterprises and in the field of industrial policy, this type of competence now belongs to the Regions. As regards the specific question concerning Liberty Steel in Liège, of which I share my concern, I should like to inform you that the answer to this question falls within the competence of my Walloon Minister for the Economy, Mr Willy Borsus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u3	Minister, thank you for your full answer and for your interest. It is true that some of the powers belong to the regions, and I am aware of that. I also hear your sensitivity, but these skills cannot be allowed to disappear. It would be interesting to invest in research to develop a Belgian steel sector 2.0 and to think about alternatives for the use of scrap metal, such as creating new factories, new technologies and creating new jobs. Furthermore, encouraging the use of clean 1/0 or low carbon steel to meet the fall in steel industry incomes and climate ambitions at European level would be equally interesting. I understand that there is an extension of the safeguard for the EU and in particular for Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u4	Mr Minister, as we know, the United Kingdom, our country's fourth largest export market, is an important partner in Belgium. It is of course essential to protect our country's interests and to ensure fair competition between European and British companies. Under the previous government, it was decided to analyse the economic impact of Brexit. The former government had therefore created the Brexit High Level Group. As a result of the survey, the chemical, pharmaceutical and transport sectors, including the ports of Antwerp and Zeebrugge, as well as the food industry, were likely to be heavily impacted. At the end of January 2020, Essenscia's analysis, based on the BNB figures, confirms these difficulties, particularly in the chemical and pharmaceutical sectors. The balance sheet is heavy: the sectors registered a drop in exports of more than 23% in the first nine months of 2020. The last-minute trade and cooperation agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom, which entered into force provisionally on 1 January, prevented the most disastrous scenario of a no deal that would have resulted in tariffs on Belgian products exported to the UK market. That said, the economic damage caused to chemicals and pharmaceuticals, which weigh one third of Belgian exports, is already considerable. Minister, at the presentation of your policy note, you announced the development of an instrument to monitor the impact of Brexit on the Belgian economy. What's the status? More generally, what measures are still in place by the government to support these heavily impacted sectors to the greatest extent possible? As the regions are directly concerned, where is collaboration with your colleagues from the federated entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u5	Mrs Reuter, my administration is in the process of putting in place a monitoring tool whereby the development of foreign trade with the United Kingdom will be analysed quarterly on the basis of the most recent official figures available. A first analysis will be available in July of this year. Other economic indicators will also be taken into account in our Brexit monitoring. These include turnover, employment, the number of employers, entrepreneurship and, unfortunately, bankruptcy. The implementation and implementation of the trade agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom are closely monitored, with appropriate input and technical support. Thanks to the Brexit scan of my administration, economic operators who trade with the United Kingdom can already verify the impact of Brexit on their activities. As you know, at the European Council in July 2020, it was agreed to create an adjustment reserve for Brexit (the BAR - Brexit Adjustment Reserve) of EUR 5 billion (2018 figure) in all the special instruments that do not fall within the budgetary ceilings of the multiannual financial framework. The BAR could help counter the negative economic and social consequences in the Member States and the sectors most affected by Brexit. Negotiations on the BAR are currently under way in the Council. Belgian positions on the BAR are determined within the DGE, which depends on the FPS Foreign Affairs, in close consultation with the federal and federated entities. The specific support levers will also be in the hands of the Regions. The SPF, for its part, organises information sessions on Brexit and its consequences for companies, either on its own initiative or at the request of companies, in cooperation with the Regions and in consultation with the other departments of the federal government, if necessary. These initiatives complement those of professional federations, as well as chambers of commerce. See you in July for the first phase of analysis on the basis of the monitoring tool implemented by the SPF Economy. I hope we can discuss precise figures. I also hope, of course, that the impact of Brexit will be limited for our companies and workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u6	Minister, thank you. I will indeed be at the meeting in July to discuss this point. A state of affairs is essential to keep pace with developments. I will go to your colleague from Foreign Affairs to see what is the status of the negotiations. I will come back with more detailed questions as soon as we have more precise figures in July.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u7	Minister, my questions are about the code of conduct that was drawn up in 2015 and signed by the catering federations, the Belgian brewers and the beverage dealers. She intends to tackle the most extreme excesses in the choke contracts with the breweries. I would very much like to admit that this code of conduct has effectively brought about improvements in many places. However, from the many reports I have received about this and the stories we can sometimes read about it in the newspaper, I note that this has not yet been resolved. We have had a hearing on this in Parliament. The reason for this is, among other things, that a code of conduct does not have the same legal value as a contract concluded between a brewer or a beverage trader and an operator. This ensures that the code of conduct imposes a number of directives, but its legal value is rather limited. I have a number of questions about that. Minister, I myself have tabled a legislative proposal to address one aspect, in particular the link of the lease to the purchase obligation. After all, we see that there is often an abuse of power there, threatening the termination of a lease, with all the problems that this entails. One of the provisions of the Code of Conduct is also that it will be reviewed every three years by the signatory parties. This is done in consultation with the Minister responsible, but we have to note that it has never happened in almost six years. The hearing also showed that there is very little recourse to the conciliation committee, which is also part of it. That is why I ask you whether you intend to begin the evaluation of the code of conduct as soon as possible. Can you put a deadline on that? For the catering industry, drawing up the code of conduct was a first step. During the hearing Horeca Flanders also confirmed that this was a good first step. But they would also have liked this legislation to be anchored. What's your vision on that? As you know, the code of conduct has been concluded between the various sector organisations, but is not legally of the same value as a contract. Will you further anchor this code of conduct in the rules, for example by including it in a KB? You could make use of the possibilities provided for in the WER. I would have liked to have heard your views on that. Mr President, I suppose I can put my next question straight away. It is also about the code of conduct, but now specifically about the past period and the coming COOVID-19-related period. During the hearings, a number of speakers indicated that there is a code of conduct, but that, in the event of an exceptional situation such as now, there should be a possibility of adapting the purchasing obligations to the situation. During the COVID-19 period many hospitality stores were closed. There the purchase obligation was often suspended, but not always. Concern certainly concerns the period that is to come, during which a number of restrictive measures are imposed so that there is a fear that those purchasing obligations will not be met. Hence my questions. Is enforcing the purchase obligation during the sanitary crisis a form of abuse in relation to breweries and drink dealers? That's not clear. Is there an imbalance in the contract by enforcing these obligations and claiming deficits? That seems to be the case, but I would also like to have more clarity on this. How can the impact of covid on the purchase obligation be taken into account? Is it possible, for example, to suspend them temporarily? How can it be avoided that deficits are still claimed? I would like to have your opinion on this. I would also like to hear whether reports have already been received.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u8	Mr Minister, I do indeed have a few questions about the contractual purchasing obligations that are stipulated at the time of the commercial rental between breweries or beverage dealers on the one hand and café operators on the other. According to the legislative proposal now before us and its authors, there must be a balance within the sector in such terms. We do not believe in any additional regulation, but we do believe in consultation to evaluate the code of conduct. Can you give an update on the consultation with your colleague, Minister Clarinval, on this issue and the 2015 review of the Code of Conduct? Specifically, what fees of the code of conduct would you like to revise? How many such purchasing obligations have been concluded in Belgium? Do you have a visual on that? Do you have actual figures? Do you have an insight into the distribution of the market share of free-standing pubs owned by breweries and liquor dealers? There is talk of an equal distribution of the three options. There is a perception of the purchase obligation that they are strangling or unfair terms. The link to leases is denounced. As contractors, the catering operators concerned can still count on a protection based on the B2B Act of 2019. Do you think that protection is sufficient or insufficient? In the light of the covid crisis and the planned reopening, do you intend to intervene in the purchase obligation? Did you know that liquor dealers or breweries have already done encores? Do you think you should take any action there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the questions are mainly about the impact of the health crisis on the purchase obligation of the catering industry with regard to breweries or drink dealers. The performance of contractual obligations is primarily a matter for the courts and tribunals to assess. That being said, however, if, despite the compulsory closure of the catering industry, certain brewers or drink dealers strictly adhere to the purchase obligations, that amounts to a risk that is placed unilaterally with one party. Clauses that unilaterally place such a risk on one party, in this case the tenant, may be contrary to the provisions on unlawful terms in the new B2B law. In addition, certain behaviours can be classified as aggressive market practices. These are conducts in which a contracting party exerts undue pressure on another undertaking and thus significantly restricts its freedom of choice or the freedom of others in relation to the transaction, including as regards the exercise of contractual rights. I believe that this issue needs to be clarified further. That is why, in accordance with the Code of Economic Law, I have requested an opinion on this issue from the Special Advisory Committee on Unlawful Terms. As regards your questions on the code of conduct, I can inform you that my cabinet and my services are working on this in cooperation with Minister Clarinval's cabinet and services. The intention is to contact the sector in the coming weeks to evaluate this code of conduct. We will be satisfied if the amended code of conduct is in place by the end of the year. In addition, I would like to refer to my request for advice to the Special Consultative Committee on Unlawful Terms. On the basis of its reply, it will be analysed whether a legislative initiative is appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is good to know that you have asked for some additional advice to see how we should proceed with this. After all, I dare to predict that the problem will arise even more when the catering industry is reopened. Particular attention must be paid to this, especially with regard to restrictive measures. I heard you say that you are working with your cabinet and your services to see how the code of conduct can be evaluated and amended together with the sector before the end of the year. That is certainly a good point, but you yourself say that it is important to consider whether legislative action should also be taken. In your reply, you also said that often the courts and courts have to judge first and foremost whether there is abuse of power or unfair competition. The Covenant of Peace Judges and Police Judges was also here at the hearing. They have said that they face the consequences of these practices on a daily basis. It was very clear to me that there is this problem. You are asking for a number of further opinions. In a later phase we will certainly come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u11	Thank you, Commissioner, for your reply. I am pleased that the code of conduct is being implemented, that initiatives have already been taken and that you hope to land by the end of this year with a new code of conduct involving all parties. I do not hear that you have any information about the number of contracts that are still of this nature, and you do not have any information about the premises, so we do not know how difficult this problem actually is. I also did not hear whether the protection was sufficient with that B2B law, except that the courts had to rule on it. I haven't heard anything about the corona measures either, but it seems that they will all be included in the consultations together. The code of conduct does not have the same legal value as a law, but it is ethical and important that the code is respected when it is signed. Everyone is happy about that too. It is perhaps very important that the entrepreneurs, the young café bosses or the people who are engaged are also well informed. Entrepreneurship is a risk. That's from all sides. They have the right to review the contract properly. We need to arm the start-ups in the economy, even if it's a café that's starting. If they're gonna do it, they're gonna have to get ready. If they sign, that means a responsibility. It's not a game that needs to be charged afterwards. They need to be supported in making good contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I am embarrassed that Mr Vanden Burre is not here because this is a matter on which we have a fairly similar position. I hope that I will be able to cover the whole issue that we have been following for some time alone. Already last November, I would like to ask you to put pressure on the insurance companies that indicated that they do not want to review a number of premiums for businesses that had been closed or for self-employed people who had not been able to carry on their business. In our discussions, we assumed that, from the moment that there was closure, there was a decrease in the risk of loss and that, in doing so, premiums for a number of insurances (labour accident, civil insurance, operating RC and even fire) had to be reduced. On that occasion, we also addressed the issue of indexing a number of bonuses. On 13 April, you said, and I thank you for that, that it was the responsibility of the insurance company to contact the insured persons who had suffered, who had been or had been the victims of closures and to offer them a number of retroactive reductions in premiums, starting from the outbreak of the coronavirus crisis. There is also the question of indexation for which we had a rather similar view. We were wondering if the timing was right and even if it was acceptable to index a number of bonuses during that period. I thank you, therefore, for the call you made. I have read the statements made by Assuralia. It must be noted that it will have taken a great deal of severity to make the insurance companies fall. Today, I would like to know how things are going in practice. There is the intention of the government and the commitment of Assuralia. But have refunds already been made by insurance companies? Have any contacts been made? Will each insurance company proceed in its own fashion, as it is said in Wallonia, by proposing a reduction system specific to each and therefore different from one company to another? Who's going to control this? I am not a followers of the Gospels, but I know them. You too. You're a rural socialist. You know St. Thomas. We should probably be a little like him in relation to insurance companies. I would like to hear from you about the system of control of insurance commitments which could be put in place and which, I think, would still be useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u13	Mr Vanden Burre is connecting. It may intervene at the time of the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u14	Mr President, Mr Ducrame, I thank you for your question on this subject, which you are following closely with the tenacity that we know of you. As you mentioned last December, in particular as a result of the exchanges we have had, it was agreed with the industry that a deferral of payment of insurance premiums could be requested by all companies and independents affected by the crisis. Contacts have continued since then so that the sector can help, specifically and in a close manner, the independents affected by the crisis. Of course, we are thinking of the self-employed who are active in the horeca, event, contact trades, as well as in the cultural sector or in the fitness centres and sports halls. Here in Parliament, on the initiative of your committee, important hearings have taken place on this subject. I followed them with my teams remotely, but with a lot of attention. Thus, an approach via Article 80 of the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014 was mentioned in this Commission by the President of the Autorité des services et marchés financiers (FSMA). The aim was to adapt insurance premiums such as occupational accident insurance, civil liability and fire, operating insurance, occupational insurance, etc., when the insured risk was significantly and sustainably reduced as a result of the current crisis. I bounced back on this proposal from the FSMA president to ask both the sector and FSMA about this approach that I thought was interesting. I have therefore sent a letter to the sector by which I have asked for the interpretation and scope it gives to the terms "sensitive" and "sustainable" of the above-mentioned article as well as for the variables which would enable the actual impact and its assessment to be determined. The sector responded recently and I had an interview with the President of Assuralia and her spokesperson last week. The industry is of the view that the use of section 80 is not an adequate approach to impose aid on businesses and self-employed persons whose insured risk would have decreased during the containment period. I have also sent a letter to FSMA in order to receive their legal analysis to show that the criteria of Article 80 would actually be met, or not, in the context of the current crisis, which the professionals in the sectors I mentioned earlier are still undergoing on a daily basis. I'm waiting for an answer in the next few days. Since then, the sector has committed itself to providing an additional effort in a concrete way, since each insured person from the most affected sectors should be contacted individually by his insurance company or by his broker in order to review his insurance contracts and adjust them according to the expected volume of future activity, e.g. by reimbursement of insurance premiums already collected. This is really essential, both in the context of the relationship between insurer and insured, but also, more generally, for the solidarity that each and everyone has to show and demonstrate in the context of this crisis and, in particular, in the insurance sector. Of course, a check must be made. Like you, and like St. Thomas, I only believe what I see. It is expected that a monitoring of this approach will be carried out to check whether the efforts announced by the insurers are a reality on the ground and whether they are sufficient to deal with the situation of their most vulnerable customers. On the basis of the first return I was able to obtain, on the part of Assuralia, more or less 100,000 insured persons from the most affected sectors have already been contacted, either by their insurance company or by their broker. Of course, the monitoring that I have just mentioned will have to be done in a much finer way and put a finger on the elements put on the table and the efforts made by the insurance sector for the benefit of the professionals and professions that are particularly affected today by this crisis. I believe that, like you and the committee as a whole, I will pay particular attention to this. I propose to come back to you in the next few days, during a forthcoming committee, with an initial assessment of the efforts made both in terms of the number of contacts made by insurance companies or brokers and, above all, in terms of the realization of these contacts for the benefit of professionals in the sectors particularly affected. That is my commitment to you, ladies and gentlemen, to take stock of the efforts and actions of the insurance sector for the benefit of the professionals particularly affected by this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u15	Minister, thank you. I couldn't ask my question, but I listened to your answer. As you said, the sector is committed to making efforts, which is the minimum we expected from it. It has committed itself to recontacting insured persons and to making repayments of premiums, which is fundamental. I can only acquiesce. There are too many returns from extremely difficult situations in sectors such as horeca and culture, sectors that are breathless and that are being asked for quarterly bonuses when, as we know, they are closed! This is completely unfair and unacceptable. Yes to the repayment of premiums already paid, to the contact of a whole series of insured people - you mentioned 100,000. You mentioned the monitoring which, in my view, is fundamental because it is a question of whether the declarations of intent will be followed by acts. This monitoring will have to be accurate. You have committed yourself to presenting us with an evaluation in committee and I think it will be necessary - in the coming weeks and not in months. If progress is not recorded on the ground, further leverage will need to be considered. The sector's words must be put into practice otherwise, after evaluation, we will have to go towards legislative levers to force the sector to act. We will follow this issue very carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u16	Mr President, I would like to inform Gilles Vanden Burre that I agree with everything he has said. I regret that he could not ask his question, but I think we certainly had the same. Mr President, I am speaking to you: our hearings have had an effect and the Minister will agree. In this case, having brought all the insurance companies before the Commission will have helped you, Minister, to overcome this difficult piece of work. In fact, it would still have taken more than a year at the political level to force insurance companies to review their strategy in this area a little bit. I naturally agree with that and I would like to congratulate you. We have had a good result in this regard. It is a question of seeing in fact, as Mr Vanden Burre said, if all this follows. You say 100,000, that's a good thing already. Mr President, the minister invites us to take a date with him. This will probably be your presentation of the monitoring in the coming weeks. We will gladly wait for you to collect the most significant figures before the parliamentary truce. There is, however, another point. I remember in a debate we had on this issue that you told us in this committee that from your point of view indexations were unacceptable or in any case that you did not understand them. I would like to ask you to go to the end of your logic and beyond the effort that is being demanded of insurance, which is an effort of common sense. All the political parties agreed, from left to right, on the pressure to put at the level of insurance, but it is the same for indexations. If I remember correctly, you said you couldn't agree to such an approach. Can we also hope, Minister, for an effort in this area? That was in my question, but you did not answer it. Indeed, some insurances index, others do not. In my view, there is also a message on the issue of indexation that you could, at least I ask you, send back to insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u17	Ms Van Bossuyt, the total annual inflation rate, measured on the basis of the harmonised indices of consumer prices, reached 0.6% in January 2021. In February the figure was 0.3 %. The further decline was due to the extension of the sale period until mid-February. In March, prices for clothing were at the same level as at the end of 2020. For footwear, they were 1% higher than in December 2020. The average price of cars was 0.8 % higher in March 2021 than at the end of 2020. Computers experienced an increase of 0.4% between December 2020 and March 2021. All in all, therefore, inflation remains low. By the first quarterly report of 2021, the Price Observatory will have a more comprehensive analysis of inflation. The observatory closely monitors inflation and its underlying components. The first quarterly report will be published at the beginning of May. The 2020 annual report showed, among other things, that low overall inflation was explained by the strong annual fall in energy products. That report was published at the beginning of March. Also in the following months, the observatory closely follows price developments for the consumer, as in previous links of the production process.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, but I have remained somewhat hungry. You mentioned cars and computers, but I also specifically asked about food price increases. You haven't said anything about that, unless I'm mistaken. I also asked you about the cause of the large price difference for food with neighbouring countries. You didn't say anything about that either. Nor did you say what initiatives you would take to reduce this gap. In fact, I have not received any answers to most of my questions. I hope you will be able to give me those answers in writing if necessary. You also said that the report of the Prize Observatory is expected at the beginning of May. Today is 5 May and I suppose it will arrive soon. I would also like to receive that report from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u19	Mr President, Minister, some of my questions have already become obsolete, because we have learned from an article in the press that the service concession for the delivery of recognized newspapers and magazines is already in progress. I must confess that it is very unfortunate that we were not allowed to hear that through you or through the government. I used the words 'like a thief in the night' yesterday, I repeat that today. After all, what does it turn out to be? In the agenda of the Council of Ministers of 25 March 2021, the item in question was listed as a penultimate item. However, the next day, when the press release was published with all the points discussed and/or approved by the Council of Ministers, that point had disappeared. It wasn't there. There was a list of the items discussed or approved by the Council of Ministers. Minister, this is not about a budget of EUR 120 to buy new envelopes. It is EUR 875 million and more for the distribution of newspapers and magazines. So I do not understand why it is decided not to inform the public. Now that we know it is there, I want to know whose decision it was not to inform the people. Was that your decision or the Prime Minister's decision? Can you also answer the other questions about what is actually in it? After all, we must not assume that you are communicating yourself through a press release on the important subject. On the other hand, we have to drag it out ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u20	Mr President, Minister, every year millions of euros flow to the media players via bpost. The government supports the media. Taxpayers pay bpost over 178 million euros to distribute newspapers and weekly newspapers, allowing large media groups to offer a cheaper price via bpost. In 2020, the contract was implicitly renewed. The fact that the contract remains fearfully secret suggests that there are things that the government wants to keep out of sight of the people. So, Minister, I would have liked to hear from you the following. Will the government continue to subsidise press distribution? Will that be included in the new management contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u21	In the past, the Centrale Raad voor het Bedrijfsleven (CRB), has already examined various slopes concerning the future of the concession. Although each track would have advantages and disadvantages, the CRB concludes that the most realistic option is the renewal of the concession in its current form. The study of the FPS Economy confirms that. The Belgian State was in contact with the European Commission during 2020 to bring the notification of the extension to a successful conclusion. We are currently awaiting the final decision. Since 1 January 2011, the Belgian postal market has been fully liberalised. The key to the concession is that it is therefore a burden resort, in other words, the concessionaire only intervenes if the publisher does not find any other options. The concession shall also be granted after the organisation of an open, transparent and non-discriminatory tendering procedure. In the current concession, three organisations had originally applied, but only bpost finally submitted a tender. The organisation of the next procedure will ensure that competition is played out as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u22	A distinction should be made between renewal and renewal. The extension of the current concession is currently notified and ends at the end of 2022. In the meantime, the selection procedure for the next concessionaire was initiated. However, as long as the procedure is ongoing and until official publication has taken place, I cannot give details of the specific content of the contract. The selection documents have already been published as mentioned. The contract will consist of two lots, one for newspapers and one for magazines, to be carried out throughout the Belgian territory for a period of five years. Newspapers should be delivered before 7.30 a.m. on weekdays and 10.00 a.m. on Saturdays. Magazines should be supplied on day plus one for weekly newspapers and at the latest on day plus three for non-weekly magazines. The submission of applications is possible until 1 June 2021. The appropriate tenderers are then selected, after which they will receive the specifications and be given time to draw up a tender. As far as the aid measures are concerned, I would first of all like to stress that the concession does not serve to support the publishers of the written press. Nor is it an indirect aid measure, as confirmed by the European Commission. The concession is a form of last resort. It should also be pointed out that the media, and hence its support, is in principle a competence of the Communities. The situation of the daily merchants is complex. The concession is often referred to as the main pain point for their situation, while other factors are not taken into account. The Independent Daily Commerce Commission, facilitated by the FPS Economy, offers a platform where, among other things, daily dealers, press distributors and publishers can meet. A study of the KUL and the UCL results in a number of scenarios, including a guidance scenario. This should give daily sales time in the longer term to find a new commercial balance between sales of press, gambling, tobacco products, etc. and to define other activities, such as those of neighborhood shops. The concession is completely separate from the management agreement concluded between the Belgian State and bpost, which also falls within the competence of the Minister for Telecommunications and Post, Mrs De Sutter. The concession shall be granted after the organisation of an open transparent and non-discriminatory tendering procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation, but you did not say why you did not communicate about it. I insist, can you answer me on this point? In the government agreement, I didn't read that we were going to extend the concession. Nearly 800 to 900 million euros are spoken throughout the legislature. They're not small amounts. If the government actually decided to continue, why didn't you communicate on that point when it was decided? If that's possible, I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u24	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Mr Van Quickenborne submitted a bill on 25 November 2019, which said: "The delivery of newspapers and magazines can no longer be regarded as a service of general economic interest, as there are now all kinds of media channels that guarantee the provision of information to every citizen in Belgium, particularly since the digital revolution. Moreover, the unfair competition that daily dealers and purely digital news sites are currently experiencing from the state financially supported delivery of newspaper and magazine subscriptions would also be eliminated." It is important that the freedom and independence of the press, both digital and printed, be guaranteed by the government with a good plan and a fair media policy that also strongly supports independent players. The more subscriptions a newspaper and magazine publisher has, the more support he gets. Hopefully, Minister Van Quickenborne will take that into account now that he is a member of the government. Therefore, Flemish Interest calls for a review of State aid to Bpost, so that small independent players are equally distributed by this system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u25	Mr Dermagne, would you like to add something in reply to Mr Freilich's questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u26	Madam President, Mr Freilich, there is no secrecy. It is a transparent procedure, in accordance with European law and European law. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u27	Madam President, Minister, several people are asking questions about this Pano reportage, so it is fairly well written in memory, even though it dates back to 24 March. In the Pano-reportage of Wednesday 24 March we saw how citizens lost all their savings in one night. The subject was internet fraud and phishing and the lack of both manpower and adapted legislation to act against this form of crime. Again, it was pointed out that the approach to internet fraud, accounting for 21 million euros reported financial loss last year, and phishing, accounting for 34 million euros reported financial loss in 2020, is insufficient according to Febelfin. As has already been pointed out, a coordinated approach is needed, enabling the exchange of information to be carried out in an efficient manner. However, there is also a need to invest in personnel and to adapt the investigative powers. Minister, was the operation of the competent services adapted to the fraud of the 21st century? Given the huge increase in reported financial damage in 2020, are there sufficient resources to address this issue and ensure that citizens are protected in the virtual world? An integrated centralised approach to crime, in which several specialised services work together, pays off. The example of such a joint coordinated approach is the operation Limit. Is there an integrated approach to online fraud and phishing? If not, will you, together with your colleagues in the government, provide for such an approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u28	Mr Vicaire has also tabled a question, but is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u29	Madam President, the FPS Economy has adapted both its research methods and its operation to new forms of fraud. For example, the service launched the hotline in 2016. Consumers and businesses reporting through the hotline will immediately receive advice or a targeted referral to the competent authority that can help them further. At the same time, the notifications shall be analysed by the competent authorities and, if necessary, shall carry out an investigation. Where the notification concerns facts falling within the competence of the Economic Inspectorate, they will carry out a legal analysis. If necessary, the Inspection shall inform relevant actors, such as hosting providers and banks, of the fraudsters' modus operandi. Where usable data such as bank account numbers appear in the files, the Economic Inspectorate shall identify those responsible, investigate the suspect and forward the file to the competent authorities. The legislation has also already been modernised. In this context, I can quote from article 3 of Book XV of the Code of Economic Law, which provides that the supervisory officers of the Economic Inspectorate have the competence to request information themselves from the relevant actors such as financial institutions. Thus, while my services have the ability to act quickly, sensitisation is the best strategy to protect citizens from online fraud. The FPS Economy warns against phishing and internet fraud through its website, social media channels, press releases and awareness campaigns, such as Trap not falling into the trap. There was also the "Too Beautiful to Be True" campaign in 2018 concerning friendship fraud, investment fraud and cryptocurrency fraud. Again this year, in cooperation with my colleagues, including the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection, but also with Febelfin, I am examining how to set up a new awareness campaign and plan the necessary budget to warn against phishing. In order to achieve this coordinated approach to Internet fraud, federal efforts have already been made, for example the exchange of information within the framework of the National Coordination Platform against Mass Fraud, which brought together the services concerned, such as the federal and judicial police and the Financial Information Processing Cell. A national working group was also set up to develop an integrated approach to phishing. However, this is hampered by the limited resources, as well as by the different legal provisions on information flow and data management. Through the Fraud Prevention Team, of which the FPS Economy is part, initiatives are taken to organise joint preventive actions. It is only together that we can successfully fight this battle. The idea of indicating a preventive message on new bank cards should be discussed with the banking sector. There is not yet a project in this direction. There are, however, other means of online payment such as smartphone banking applications that do not involve the use of credit cards. A warning message on the credit card may therefore not reach a significant part of consumers. Furthermore, I recall that the security and authentication obligations of payment service providers were reinforced by the laws of 11 March 2018 and 19 July 2018 transposing Directive 2015/2366EU known as DSP2.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It seems to me to be a good thing that research methods and working methods are being adapted. You have indeed also mentioned the hotline. Although we must do even more to ensure that citizens are effectively led to the hotline. In fact, the shoe wrings there, as people report too many places, while all these reports would be better placed in the hotline. It is good that efforts are being made at federal level to implement joint actions. That is also necessary, knowing that one in three Belgians indicates that they have received phishing messages in recent months. That indicates there's definitely still work to be done. More than half of our compatriots, 56%, have received such a message in the last six months, as is shown by a poll in collaboration with the research agency Indiville. Phishing is a phenomenon in which crooks mainly try to extract the victims' bank code to collect money. This led to some 67,000 registered actions last year, amounting to around EUR 34 million, taken by swindlers from our citizens. These hallucinating figures may not include everything, as a lot of people don't even mention them. Phishing is damaging to our economy, because those hard-earned or spared money from our good citizens cannot of course be reinvested in our own economy. That is why there is a real need for an integrated approach. Sensitisation is good, but given the current figures, it is certainly not enough. A round question shows that 12% of Belgians have never heard of phishing and it is particularly hallucinating that especially young people, up to 30% of young people, have never heard of that term. I therefore believe that the various policy areas in the government should look at them in order to arrive at a centralised and integrated approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u31	Mr Freilich, would you like to speak for a reply? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. In the past, I have said many times that information and awareness are extremely important in this regard. I think we should pay even more attention to that. Victims should be encouraged to complain to the hotline. Only in this way will we really get a good look at the problem. I also call for a coordinated and cooperative approach between the various bodies. The fight against Internet fraud in all its forms must really be a priority for these different bodies. I look forward to the further initiatives you are taking in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u33	Madam Chair, I'm sorry, I came too late to ask my question, but it's no big deal. Minister, I propose that it be written "never communicate your codes" on the bank card. The fraudsters who call ask the victims to code on their device. I think banks' communications are what they are; we put the document in a drawer. But when you pull out the card, reading the message "never communicate your codes" can attract attention. It is a proposal for a communication against fraud that I am making. That's why I asked my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u34	Mrs Fonck, all the corona bonds issued between March 20, 2020 and June 19, 2020 that meet the conditions of the Ministerial Order of March 19, 2020 have the characteristic of being protected against the insolvency of the tour operator cancelled until the travellers book a new trip or request a refund. In order to protect the traveller as much as possible, and to comply as closely as possible with the spirit of the legislation on package travel, the issuance of these vouchers is accompanied by strict conditions. Among these, the possibility for the traveller to claim the refund one year after their broadcast, but he can always choose to book a new trip. It is true that the scheme is different from the requirement of the law of 21 November 2017 transposing the European Directive 2015/2302 on package travel. However, taking into account this coverage against insolvency, the European Commission has not initiated proceedings against Belgium for non-compliance with the Package Travel Directive. However, this is an exceptional and temporary agreement, which was necessary to address the unprecedented impact of the pandemic in the travel sector. It provided some financial flexibility for travel organizers, while ensuring that travellers did not lose their right to reimbursement. I would also point out that no proceedings have been initiated before the Council of State against the Ministerial Order of 19 March 2020. My services shall strictly ensure that the conditions laid down in the ministerial decree are complied with. At the end of January, the SPF Economy re-explained these rules in a press release and clarified the position of all travellers who own good coronas. Furthermore, as you know, I am currently working closely with the Minister of Finance, the travel sector and the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection, as well as with insurers, on the introduction of specific aid, with the aim of ensuring the repayment of all these vouchers, without undermining the cash flow of companies in the sector at this difficult time. The intention is to put in place a loan mechanism for travel organizers to ensure sufficient financial liquidity. We are working to achieve a satisfactory project for all stakeholders as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u35	Minister, you seem to say that travellers are protected as much as possible and that everything is fine. I have other echoes on the ground, with the finding of clearly major difficulties for consumers who feel and are injured. Notably because of the decisions of these famous decrees which the Council of State had already tacked at the time, since the Belgian decisions narrowed the scope of the European directive. Indeed, it was very clear that these were related travel services as organizers, retailers, professionals facilitating the provision of related travel or as providers of a travel service. The latter two categories are not included and are not covered by the ministerial decrees of 19 March and 3 April. I therefore imagine that it is on this basis that the SPF Economy and the Economic Inspectorate, when there is a complaint, decide. But in substance, let us acknowledge that, in relation to travellers, the decision taken and the analysis carried out at the FPS Economy level is not in line with the European Directive. These few points seem to be details, but in reality this is the basis of a series of problems for travellers in particular. You've now had this case in your hands for seven months as a minister. I think that it is either necessary for the SPF Economy to at least align itself with the European directive in relation to complaints brought by injured travellers, or for you to amend the ministerial decrees in order to ensure that they fully adhere to the European directive. Of course, that was the subject of my question, so if there is a need for a public fund to finance the repayments of the vouchers in order to preserve the difficult situation on the sector side, particularly in terms of cash flow. I hope, Mr Minister, that you will again pay attention to these points because, let us be correct, of course, the European directive must be fully implemented if we really want to protect travellers as the rights allow them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u36	Madam President, Minister, we know that the event sector is very difficult because of the corona measures. We are therefore calling for very heavy efforts from this sector. Still the sector hopes to become active again. I therefore believe that we should try to ensure a clear perspective and support for the sector. In this context, I am concerned about the existing method of calculating Unisono's copyrights. For live concerts, with lower gross revenues, copyrights consist of a larger share of the revenue than for concerts with higher revenues. This unequal treatment will weigh more heavily during the corona crisis as gross income will generally be lower because there are fewer spectators. This inequality was, of course, already there before the corona crisis, but if the policy remains unchanged, it will continue to exist after that. I have a number of questions on the subject. How is this different treatment generally justified? Do you agree with that responsibility? Do you think that this is enough, given that small-scale initiatives are struggling and that they really need their income? How does Unisono arrive at her pricing method? Is the government involved in establishing that charging table in one way or another?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u37	Madam President, Mr Vanbesien, Sabam/Unisono's fare for live concerts is a fare that has long been applicable, despite some recent changes. The rate with the income brackets was established after negotiations with the sector in 2006. A fee for festivals was also agreed at that time. Due to the need for more investment at larger events, a degressivity in tariffs has been chosen. The price for the live concerts can be calculated on the basis of gross receipts. They'll be working with income discs. However, it is not the case that an event with higher revenues has to pay a relatively lower contribution. A contribution must be paid per income bracket, which covers income. The organiser shall pay the corresponding percentage for each income scale. It is therefore a cumulative, degressive tariff. In addition, the rate also depends on the use of the Sabam/Unisono repertoire. The more it is used, the higher the percentage per income bracket. Management companies are obliged to transmit changes to their rates to the Audit Service of the management companies of the FPS Economy. It checks, among other things, whether the tariff has a legal basis, contains objective parameters and does not discriminate. The management companies have a certain autonomy to determine the rates of the repertoire they represent and in the choice of the methods of calculation. The application of the graduated rate was not considered unfair by the Audit Authority. The Unisono.be website contains a list of prices for the public performance of music. All rates of Sabam/Unisono and those of The Fair Fee can be found online, as well as the applicable general terms and conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u38	Minister, the whole pricing method has little to do with corona, but it is only logical that we should discuss other subjects than corona. In any case, the bizarre format of pricing is now exposed, because many events have fewer spectators and therefore less revenue. In this cumulative system we are indeed working with discs, but in fact it is the opposite of our progressive tax system. As the revenue increases, you end up in a disc with a lower rate. That's weird. Perhaps we should ask the sector what they think of that logic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u39	Under the Code VI of Economic Law, there is no obligation for companies to deliver a checkout ticket to the consumer. Such an obligation exists only for the sale of non-homogeneous services, where no contract documents or invoices were delivered and provided that the consumer so requests, in accordance with Article 6.89, §1 of the Code of Economic Law. To clarify, homogeneous services are all services whose characteristics and modalities are identical or similar, regardless of, inter alia, the place of performance, the provider or the person to whom they are intended. Apart from the fact that there is no legal obligation to deliver a checkout ticket to the consumer, the company must ensure that the consumer can exercise his rights in relation to the legal guarantee. For the sale of goods, the company must therefore provide proof of purchase, indicating the date of purchase and the goods purchased. In practice, that piece of evidence is often a checkout ticket. But the document can also be delivered electronically. However, under VAT legislation, there is a legal obligation to deliver a proof of VAT or an invoice in certain specific situations. This applies, for example, to the catering sector, to the sale of cars or to the construction of a building. The provisions relating to VAT legislation are the responsibility of my colleague Vincent Van Peteghem, Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament 55016406C by Mrs Dierick will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there were indeed some setbacks to the recruitment procedure for some important members of the Management Committee of the Belgian Competition Authority. However, they have not compromised the proper functioning of the institution. The members of the Management Committee whose term of office has expired shall remain in office until their successor has been appointed, in accordance with Article 6 of the Royal Decree of 21 May 2013 laying down the statute of the members of the Management Committee and the assessors of the Belgian Competition Authority. As regards the procedure, after a first call for candidates, a candidate passed the post of Director of Economic Affairs and was appointed. For the terms of office of President and Hearing Officer-General, all candidates were considered to be less suitable. The second appeal to candidates launched by the previous government was interrupted by an action for annulment before the Council of State. The third call for candidates will soon be closed. The interviews with the candidates should take place in June. I am convinced that this call will result in qualitative appointments for the mandates of President and Auditor-General. As I stressed in my policy paper and in accordance with the government agreement, it is desirable to strengthen the Belgian Competition Authority. This also meets a European requirement in the Directive 2019/1 conferring powers on the competition authorities of the Member States for more effective enforcement. A preliminary draft law to be submitted to the Council of Ministers in the coming weeks is currently being finalised. In addition to the transposition of the Directive, the preliminary draft law also provides for additional amendments at the request of the BMA to address certain procedural difficulties encountered by the BMA in the application of the Code of Economic Law. There are also discussions in the government on possible additional financial resources for the BMA. The delay in the transposition of the European Directive has no significant impact on the BMA. Belgian law is already largely in line with that directive. The BMA already plays an advisory role, for example in the transposition of Directive 2019/1, the European Digital Markets Act proposal, or in the context of initiatives in the telecom sector. There is therefore no need for a legislative initiative in this area. In this context, it should be borne in mind that any new competence granted to the BMA will require additional resources to enable the Authority to carry out its tasks effectively. The cooperation between the BMA and the Competition Service of the FPS Economy is framed by a 2015 protocol. The Competition Service assists the Minister of Economy in the exercise of the powers conferred on him by Book IV of the Code of Economic Law, participates in the regulatory framework in the field of competition and represents Belgium with the European institutions, such as the Council of the European Union, where European legislative texts are negotiated. It is the responsibility of the BMA to ensure that competition rules are enforced and to put an end to infringements of competition law. Their missions and their approach are complementary. I have already noted that this complementarity is appropriate when they discuss competition issues or issues together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. First and foremost, the proper functioning of the BMA is of great importance, not least in order to safeguard the competitiveness of our businesses and our economy in general. That is why I am surprised that you minimize the late transposition of the directive, to which you refer and to which I also asked. The transposition was due to take place by 4 February 2021. Today it is 5 May 2021, so we are already three months late and now you say that the transposition is coming through a bill, and that for a government that likes to hit the European drum. The directive also has to do with the internal market, the cornerstone of European cooperation, which is very important for its proper functioning. Other continents are looking with some jealousy at the unique concept of the European single market. I therefore regret that the government is not setting an example for the timely transposition of the directive. I look forward to the draft bill that is coming and which you announced in your policy paper, because I asked you how you intend to improve the functioning of the BMA. We will look at this with great attention. I would also like to make a warm appeal to be the best student of the class when it comes to transposing European directives and not to go for a six-year culture or even a straight tube in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am pleased to hear that you correctly assess the importance of the BMA and that you are properly preparing for its transposition. The quality naturally prevails on the timing. Timing is important. Quality is more important. If additional functionalities are provided, additional resources will be added. That is clearly the case. It's our job to see what it takes to make things work. Then we need to find the necessary budgets to meet that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u44	Mr President, my question was tabled a while ago in connection with the Consultation Committee of 14 April 2021. In the meantime, the question is somewhat out of date, but if you will allow me, I will update it. After all, there are still a few points that remain. Mr Minister, now that the terraces will open on 8 May 2021 and we see that the catering industry will be able to gradually reopen, I wondered when the existing aid measures will remain valid. When does the government plan to let them go? I'm assuming it's gonna be a step-by-step. How do you see that right? Where do these measures go? To what extent has your government consulted with the various Catering Federations in the light of the latest or announced relaxations? What was the result of those conversations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u45	Mr Minister, like Mr Van Lommel's question, my question is no longer topical, as the terraces will open on Saturday. However, what remains absolutely topical, as Mr Van Lommel pointed out earlier, are the aid measures, both temporary unemployment and the right to bridge, which will be very important for the catering sector. Until when are they gonna be pulled through? On the protocols last weekend there was still a lot of uncertainty at the catering industry. I have received phone calls from many catering operators asking whether they should re-introduce a registration system, which is the definition of a terrace and whether people will have to re-book if they want to sit on a terrace. A week before the opening, it was still unclear what the proper rules and protocols would be. In the meantime, that's pretty obvious. Monday evening 3 May 2021 we knew exactly how the fork would be, which was obviously very late. Out of respect for the sector, I would like to ask about the future steps that are certainly needed for the opening of the catering industry. Not everyone will open their terrace on Saturday. There must be clarity and communication in good time. What are the next steps? What will be the protocols that will apply if all restaurants and cafes are allowed to open, including inside? For example, should restaurants be equipped with plexiglass? Do we need to re-enlist reservation systems? When can they expect these protocols officially?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u46	On 23 April the Consultative Committee took a number of decisions on the basis of the data on the evolution of the pandemic, but also of the vaccination campaign. As far as catering is concerned, all items with terrace can be opened under certain conditions, with up to four people at a table, unless people from the same household. There must be at least five feet between the table companies. There are only seats at the table. Service at the bar is not allowed. Mouth masking is mandatory for the staff, but also for the customers, unless they are sitting at a table. A customer may occasionally enter to go to the toilet, reach the terrace or pay. The opening hours are from 8 am to 22 pm. The protocol drawn up in consultation with the various Catering Federations was approved on 3 May and is available on the official sites. Given the relatively favourable health situation, there is no reason to go back to the last decisions. As far as aid measures are concerned, a budget of EUR 835 million has been made available to help the most affected sectors, in particular the catering sector. The VAT on meals will be reduced from the current 12 % to 6 %. For beverages, including alcoholic beverages, VAT is reduced from 21% to 6%. That aid measure shall remain in force until 30 September 2021. Aids such as double bridging rights are maintained when the terraces open again. The next steps will be decided in the Consultation Committee next week. So we're still looking at the future and the prospects.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u47	Minister, I can only hope that you will continue to spare the catering sector in the near future. Although there are now relaxations and hospitality shops can gradually be opened again, aid measures will still be needed for a long time to come. Hopefully the government will continue to pay attention to this. There's a little misunderstanding about the hourly schedule. Minister, you yourself state that the catering industry must close at 10 p.m. and that a maximum of 4 guests can sit at a table. Then it is very strange that 10 people can meet on the street or on someone's terrace at home. The logic is not always clear. That's gonna make you misunderstand. I can therefore only hope that logic will prevail as far as possible in all the forthcoming facilitations and measures that you will take.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u48	Mr Minister, you listed the issues that we have already heard, rules that have already been communicated in the media. It is therefore a little unfortunate that we cannot give that clarity and perspective, which goes beyond one week, and cannot talk about it. With regard to the protocols, we do not yet know when the catering industry will be able to open further, when the catering industry may open indoor spaces, but that is no reason not to talk about the protocols that will apply. That way, people could prepare themselves. At the moment that is not yet known or is not yet communicated, and that is a pity. That does not require a great deal of effort and we could do so in advance, so that these people can prepare themselves properly, because they really do deserve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u49	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55016477C and 55016570C by Mrs Dierick are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u50	Minister, this is the second time we have asked you this question. Last time I saw you, you couldn't be there and you had sent Secretary of State Dermine. I quote him briefly: 'The Minister wants the law to be incorporated by 1 May 2021'. There would also be consultations with all stakeholders and the Minister, you, the Secretary of State, saw no problem in the KB that had to be drawn up if they wanted to meet the deadline of 1 May. May 1st is over and today there is still no KB, unfortunately. I'd like to know why. Some people in Antwerp believe that this is probably due to the fact that it is mainly a Flemish problem with the diamond dealers, the jewellers, but I am convinced that the Community does not play a part in this. Mr Minister, can you confirm that and work on the Royal Decree as soon as possible? I also understand that the Council of State is being asked for advice. I don't think that's necessary in this case. The law has been passed in the Chamber. We've had all the possibilities. All stakeholders have been heard. If the Council of State has to consider something, it's the law itself, but it's too late now. Anyone who believes that there is a problem with the law or with the future KB can sue through the regular channels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u51	Minister, I had hoped that I would no longer have to ask this question and that everything would have been okay. It was always promised that the KB would be available by 1 May 2021. I thought that was a fantastic birthday present, but unfortunately it wasn't supposed to be. We passed the law on 23 October 2020 and it was due to enter into force on 1 May. That was also often confirmed by my questions about the basic banking service. As Mr Freilich says, there is indeed still a need to draw up a KB. We were hopeful that it would be all right. This was also confirmed in several oral questions, but unfortunately, 1 May is over and the law has still not entered into force. However, the need is really great. Not a week goes by or I'm contacted by an entrepreneur who can't move on, whose bank account has been cancelled and who begs for a solution. It is usually about entrepreneurs who are already in a very difficult situation and who had really put their hopes on basic banking service legislation. Now they're gonna have to put that hope away again. What is the state of play now? What else needs to be done before you can issue the C.B.? Why is there a delay? I would like to have an overview of the various steps that still have to be taken with the associated timing, so that we can also clarify those involved, who are really waiting for the RB to enter into force. I have been informed that an opinion has to be requested from the Council of State. Why does that have to happen? Probably that will take another 30 days, or do you expect a different deadline? I just want to know when the law will come into force. Can you give me a date that will be respected this time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u52	First of all, it is not a Community issue. That's obvious. The deadline of May 1st was not met. My administration is currently drawing up a draft of KB. There are consultations with stakeholders, in particular the Financial Information Processing Cell, the FPS Finance and the National Bank of Belgium. The RB implementing it will have to provide for risk mitigation measures on money laundering. It is essential that the KB complies with anti-money laundering legislation. In a subsequent phase, a short consultation will take place with a limited number of other stakeholders, in particular Febelfin, the diamond sector and the payment institutions sector. Finally, the final draft will be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. That is a mandatory step, which cannot therefore be missed. It is not possible to give an exact timing, as each step depends on several factors. However, my administration is making every effort to publish the implementing decision as soon as possible. My administration also analyses how practical matters should be organised. I can already tell you that the basic banking service room will be set up at the FPS Economy. The secretariat will normally be provided by officials of the FPS Economy. The number of staff, the necessary computer systems and the budgeted costs will depend on the number of applications for the basic banking office and the workshop. In order to safeguard legal certainty, the choice is made to include all the items necessary for the basic banking service in a single implementing act. These are the most essential issues, such as the basic banking service room, the additional risk mitigation measures and the application form. These matters are so closely linked that it would not be useful to carry them out separately. The entries on the application form are currently elaborated in the Implementing Decision. For this purpose, the administration received input from the Febelfin sector federation. In addition, the basic banking service room will work with an internal regulation to regulate practical matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u53	Minister, I am glad to hear that it is not a Community matter. Be aware that it is an important issue for the diamond and jewelry sector in Antwerp. I therefore hope that the delay will not be delayed. We are now seeing different manoeuvres, such as those of Febelfin, to slow things down, but I hope that they will not lead to the legislative proposal being watered down or the implementing decisions being written in such a way that they can be interpreted without solving the problems, because that would be very unfortunate. I can also tell you that the legislative proposal has broad support, i.e. from both the majority and the opposition, with the exception of the PTB. It's nice that we can work together once in a while. Let us therefore ensure that the law is implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u54	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for the explanation. I welcome your clear statement that it is not a Community issue, thank God, because it would be very unfortunate if it were. But the people involved lose hope in the long run, so weird stories begin to circulate. It is important that you stress once again that you are making every effort to prepare the implementing decision and the royal decision. You don't have the guts to give me the exact timing anymore. I can understand that. The law was adopted here on 23 October 2020. I therefore hope that it can enter into force effectively before 23 October 2021. People have waited long enough for a solution. As Mr Freilich pointed out, the text has been widely supported. Everyone wants him. I hope that the implementing act reflects the spirit of the law and that it will not be watered down in such a way that the decision is no longer a solution. We will therefore look very critically at it. In any case, we will give you the opportunity to work on this and we will certainly ask questions about it. In any case, we also hope for a speedy implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u55	Minister, the importance of card payments has increased considerably over the past year. Because of COOVID-19, even at some point it was called upon to pay as much as possible with the card and contactless, because cash money would pose certain risks. I do not know what risks to date, because I have been trying to get a written question on this for a year now, but it is being moved from one cabinet to another. Of course, card payments are not a problem for the large retail chains, because they already offered this option in the past, but there is still a brake on the smaller retailers, because they are concerned about the cost of the system. It is not that they do not want it, but the cost is very often put forward. During the hearing on 21 April on cash withdrawals and the like in the committee, the NSZ said it would be a perception problem. Traders often say that transaction costs are high, but they do not always have a good view of them. I think that also has to do with the fact that traders are initially going to their own bank today, whereas there are actually a lot of providers: there is not only the home banker, but there are also a lot of other organisations that do so and that are often much cheaper. They offer affordable opportunities to traders, but that is not always so well known today. There is also the example of telecoms and energy: here too, we have had similar discussions in the past about what is now the cheapest provider and what exists on the market that meets the needs of consumers. This created the demand to create a similar comparison tool for traders, who can easily discover the existing supply on the Internet and then choose the cheapest alternative that best suits their specific needs. Colleagues have already taken legislative initiatives to oblige traders to offer card payments in shops and the like. I am not very much in favour of obligations, but if Parliament were to incorporate that obligation into the law, we would certainly have to offer opportunities such as those I have just outlined. Minister, to what extent are you aware of the threshold that smaller traders are experiencing today? What have you done in that sense? Have you consulted with certain bodies, interest groups, etc. on transaction costs related to card payments? Have you already taken steps to develop an independent online comparison tool in consultation with the FPS Economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u56	Mr Van Lommel, I am aware of the fact that some traders experience thresholds and find it difficult to get a clear view of the different types of costs. It is therefore a rather complex structure. As soon as a trader offers his customers the opportunity to pay electronically, he will be charged various costs. The invoice is composed of terminal costs such as purchase, rental or maintenance, fixed costs such as installation and activation, and transaction costs, also called merchants service fee. The transaction costs can take different forms: an amount per transaction, subscriptions, etc. They are used to compensate the various actors in the chain. The interchange fee or settlement fee is legally limited by the European Regulation 2015/751. The same Regulation also provides that the trader should be provided with the necessary information on transaction costs. In doing so, the trader has the choice of whether or not to obtain a breakdown of the information. Furthermore, in 2019, the Price Observatory carried out a study on the different costs faced by traders in the context of electronic payments. This study was published on the website of the FPS Economy. The complexity of the structure of electronic payments and the many players in the chain make it very difficult to develop a comparison tool. Moreover, there are new payment methods which should also be taken into account, such as Payconiq, a system based on a transfer. No consultation is planned at the moment, but I will continue to follow this issue closely. I will not fail, if necessary, to take further steps which fall within my competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u57	Minister, you say that it is a rather complex matter and you have explained the various costs involved in card payments and how the fees charged have been built up. You also say that no consultation is planned at the moment, but that you will follow this up further. And that's where it ends. You have not replied on the basis of whether you will examine, introduce and roll out a comparison tool, which I regret. Even though the fees that may be charged are limited by Europe, I can see that a lot of small entrepreneurs are discouraged when they go to the bank with the best of intentions and investigate how much that costs. In the first instance, they consult their home banker and receive a quote. The big banks are often very expensive in that respect, especially for those small traders, which discourage them and decide to leave it for what it is. That is a pity, because there are also a number of independent providers, such as Mollie. I can list 10 others, which are more affordable in a number of cases, but that is not known. With an online comparison tool, the trader could indicate how many transactions per month he provides, with that average amount and so on. At the end of the ride, that person will be given a comparison offer in which he can see what is on the market and what is most appropriate for him. It is particularly regrettable that you did not go into more detail. This is precisely how we can solve part of the problem. There are colleagues in this House who want to further encourage card payments from traders. However, if we do not facilitate anything and we do nothing ourselves, then these people will not do it in the end either. That is why I have today prepared a motion asking the government very clearly to take the necessary measures to remove the thresholds for those traders so that the possibility of card payments will be offered more. In cooperation with the FPS Economy, you would create and develop an independent comparison tool that should enable traders to find the best provider that meets their specific needs in a very simple way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u58	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economy and Work, - having regard to the growing importance of card transactions for payments to traders, - having regard to the high transaction cost experienced by many traders, which has an effect on the offer of this payment option; - having regard to the hearing held on 21 April last, which stated that this was often a problem of perception among traders; - considering that an independent comparison tool for transaction costs resulting from card payments enables traders to easily discover the available offer and choose the cheapest alternative that meets their specific needs, in line with the example of telecoms and energy for consumers; asks the government - take measures to remove traders' thresholds in order to increase the offer of card payments on a voluntary basis; - develop, in cooperation with the FPS Economy, an independent comparison tool for transaction costs in card payments, in line with the example of telecoms and energy for consumers, which should enable traders to easily discover the available offer and choose the cheapest alternative that meets their specific needs." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Labour, - in view of the increasing importance of card transactions for payments by traders; - in view of the high transaction cost faced by many traders and the inhibitory effect it has on the provision of this method of payment; - in view of the hearing of 21 April, at which it was stated that it is often a problem of perception among traders; - Whereas an independent tool for comparing transaction costs in the case of card payments allows traders – like telecommunications and energy for consumers – to easily discover the existing offer and to opt for the formula which is the least expensive and best meets their specific needs; asks the government - take measures to remove obstacles faced by traders and thus ensure that the possibility of card payment is offered more broadly (although on a voluntary basis); - to develop, in collaboration with the SPF Economy, an independent tool for comparing transaction fees in the case of card payments allowing traders – like telecommunications and energy for consumers – to easily discover the existing offer and to opt for the formula which is the least expensive and best meets their specific needs." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Leslie Leoni. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Leslie Leoni. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u59	Minister, I come back to you about the travel sector, which has, of course, been suffering since the beginning of this pandemic. Under the Wilmès government, a corona voucher had been set up. This was valid for one year, after which the traveller was entitled to claim a refund, with the tour operator having six months to make the refund. Since mid-March, travellers can claim reimbursement for their trip. In total, no less than 202 000 vouchers were issued for an amount of EUR 356 million. This is a huge amount for the sector, which is almost completely shut down. I was already asking you a few months ago about what the government was planning to support the travel sector. You told me that with your colleagues Eva De Bleeker and Vincent Van Peteghem, you were working on a solution for the sector. What is the status of these discussions? I believe you have already answered Mrs Fonck about the zero-rate loan. Could you summarize the situation with regard to this zero-rate loan? What about the ongoing negotiations with Assuralia for this important collaboration with the insurance sector? Can you give us some details? You have already mentioned the issue, but not specifically in the travel sector. I think we need a fairly quick and essential solution for this sector, which has also been exsangued for more than a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u60	Mrs Reuter, indeed, in close agreement and cooperation with the Minister of Finance and my colleague the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection, we are finalising a specific proposal to help the travel sector repay these coronary vouchers or vouchers, in close consultation with the travel sector and insolvency insurers. As my colleague Eva De Bleeker said, this Monday in the same commission, the federal government intends to provide loans directly to package tour operators for vouchers covered by the March 19, 2020 Ministerial Order on the refund of cancelled package travel. Insurers offering insolvency insurance are called upon here to play their full part because I think they know their members best and have a great responsibility to avoid many bankruptcies in the sector, under the Royal Decree mentioned above. If insolvency insurers do not want to cooperate with the administrative side, the system will probably have little chance of success and, as mentioned earlier with MM. Vanden Burre and Ducrame, we rely on the cooperation of the insurance sector to ensure that this system works. The aim is to grant these loans in time to package tour operators to reimburse consumers within the time limits set. The interest rate that tour operators will pay for loans is more favourable than that charged by banks, but it must also be in line with the European Commission's Temporary Framework so that loans are not treated as State aid. The interest rate will normally include the amount intended to pay insolvency insurers for their administrative costs and the loan should have a five-year repayment period. Package tour operators will have to demonstrate that they were a financially sound business before the end of December 2019, in accordance with the European Commission's directives. Any package tour operator, regardless of his size, who has issued valid corona vouchers under the royal decree mentioned above will be able to obtain a loan to repay them. The aim is to have as little bankruptcy as possible in this sector with a view to maximising employment and economic activity in the recovery and recovery phase. The intention is to finalize this mechanism and put it in place as soon as possible. We will not fail to return to you as soon as we do. I hope to be able to finalize this specific proposal with my colleagues in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u61	Minister, if you don't come back to us, I'll come back to you. There are others: Messrs. Ducarme and Vanden Burre have already asked you about insurance. Indeed, it is essential that the insurance sector plays its part, as you said. It's inevitable if we want to avoid these bankruptcies. I understand that zero rates are difficult to set up in order to avoid amalgamation with state aid. In this case, they would only cover administrative costs, which seems acceptable. I can only insist on your determination that this proposal to finalize these loans and the introduction of insurance intervention to avoid these bankruptcies be quickly put in place and, above all, effective so that we avoid as many bankruptcies as possible, since this is not the only sector in difficulty today. It's really important to support him. Thank you for your answers. I really hope that you will be able to come back to Parliament to explain to us the finalisation of this agreement. Otherwise, I'll ask you again soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u62	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly fascinated by what is happening in companies every day. We note that companies are facing a sharp rise in raw materials prices today. The manufacturing industry in particular is therefore highly impacted. For example, the price of steel has risen sharply. For the first time in 10 years, the buyer price has risen above $10,000 per tonne. The same is observed with other alloys. There is also a shortage of wood and electronics materials. Some companies even have to shut down production lines because they do not get the necessary goods. It is not only about SMEs operating in the machinery industry, but also about large car companies. One possible explanation is that after the corona crisis stocks must be maintained, but I am concerned that a number of increases will be sustainable and not temporary. Suppliers take advantage of the situation In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the rising prices of materials and transport will be passed on to the consumer, at the end of the value chain, in an economy that can lead to an inflation wave in the long term. Minister, how do you view these day-to-day developments in our companies? How big is the impact on this country? Do you really expect an inflation wave? What influence do you expect on purchasing power? What projection does the government make about inflation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u63	Minister, we are really seeing a chain of price increases, from raw materials to transport, and that is how it continues. How do you view these developments? How big will the impact on inflation be?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u64	In the first quarter of 2021, the total inflation rate in Belgium was 0.8 %. Also for industrial goods such as clothing and electronics, prices in the first quarter 2021 were only 0,1% higher than in the same quarter a year before. The increased commodity and transport prices have thus not yet led to generally higher consumer prices. Moreover, the share of commodity prices in all consumer prices is relatively limited. As a result, the impact of a temporary increase in commodity prices on consumer prices is not so great. According to the latest inflation outlook of the Federal Planning Office of 6 April, average annual inflation would reach 1.4 % in 2021 and 1.6 % in 2022, compared to 0.74 % in 2020 and 1.44 % in 2019. According to this forecast, overall inflation remains below the 2% target of the European Central Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u65	Minister, you have made a number of projections for the future, but I am afraid you are not really aware of what is going on with the companies today. Two months ago, the first price increases were announced. One or two months later a price increase already applies to an increase in prices. Some parts, including electronics parts, suddenly become 6 or 7 % more expensive. In any case, this will be passed on to the consumer sooner or later. So I fear that you underestimate inflation and that your figures lag behind on business reality. The same story goes for electronics for the private. No container ships are found and the chips become significantly more expensive. Even now, the price of TVs and other electronics in the supermarket has risen sharply. In view of these price increases, together with the price increases for raw materials for companies, we can expect a real wave of inflation. You're not prepared and you're not working on it. You apparently expect inflation to remain well below 2%. You will be surprised by a true chain reaction. I can only hope that you will follow things very closely in the coming weeks and months. The current price increases will not stop. They're gonna last. So, Minister, I expect much more. That is all I can say. I can only hope that you take the matter seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. It is very important that the case be followed. That's right. After all, I spend every day in the building world and experience the increases being dramatic. We're watching with our eyes closed. We in the market don't get our materials. So we also have to pay for the price increases. The consumer will therefore also have to pay them. I am therefore pleased that, with the VAT rate of 6% in construction, we can give some support to builders, so that the price increases can be partly offset.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u67	Mr President, Minister, Minister Van Quickenborne said on Friday in the press that Belgium will carry out the screening of foreign investment in important companies in our country. That had been announced for some time and now it seems to be being put into practice. The screenings are necessary because foreign investment appears to pose a real threat to our country. As a result of the corona crisis, countries such as China would want strategic takeovers of companies that are struggling to strengthen their strategic position and establish themselves on the European market. The Investment screening committee has now been set up in the bosom of the FPS Economy to investigate all possible security risks associated with such investments. Moreover, this is often about knowledge and innovation developed in our country, which we do not like to see flowing abroad and therefore have to protect. Minister Van Quickenborne is presenting the matter in a very concrete way, while a few months ago you did not want to report any timing in view of the complexity of the dossier. We found it highly remarkable that this seemed to be accelerating. The preliminary draft had already been sent to the Council of State for its opinion at the beginning of February. Is this advice in the meantime? So can we expect the draft in our committee soon? What is the actual state of affairs? How is cooperation with the Länder going? Since the economy is also an important competence of the regions, they should also have an important say in this. How are the conversations going with them? What role will they play in the screening procedures? Do you agree to work on a single inter-federal screening mechanism for the Belgian territory, ensuring the full and equal participation of the Länder? Why choose only to respect safety considerations in the screenings? Aren't you concerned about the loss of innovative knowledge abroad? Would you also take these economic considerations into account in the discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u68	Mr President, Minister, as you know, there is currently a legislative proposal from us in this committee concerning the screening of foreign investment. We submitted this because the government did not take any initiative. Suddenly I read in the newspaper last week that the government was working on an initiative that was already quite advanced. The light had been seen! This would have accelerated as a result of the corona crisis and the fact that certain countries are waiting for strategic takeovers. We are thinking, for example, of high-tech industries that could strengthen a country's strategic position. Meanwhile, many European countries have adopted the screening mechanism, but Belgium does not yet have it. Mr Minister, in view of the announcement made by Minister Van Quickenborne last week, I would have liked to hear from you what this screening mechanism will ultimately look like. Which specific sectors will be involved? I would like to know what extent the Länder are involved in this? They have a lot of powers when it comes to economics. Finally, I would like to know when the government will see the roll-out of this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u69	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers, Mr Van Lommel, protecting our Belgian companies from foreign investors if they may pose security risks is effectively one of the main objectives of setting up a screening mechanism for foreign investment. Regulation 2019/452 establishing a framework for the screening of foreign direct investment in the Union provides that restrictive measures may be taken in respect of foreign direct investment in the interests of security or public policy. The rules of the World Trade Organisation and the European Union on the free movement of capital and investment must also be taken into account. Blocking foreign investment for the sake of economic desirability would not be compatible with these principles and could undermine Belgium's position as an open economy. Foreign investment is essential for our economic development. In addition, taking economic reasons into account would also be detrimental to legal certainty for companies and their investments. As far as current developments in this dossier are concerned, I am working closely with various partners to achieve a broad and supported screening mechanism. We want an effective and efficient mechanism, without creating unnecessary administrative burdens for entrepreneurs. For the sake of clarity, I would like to take the various steps that have already been taken in a row. During the previous legislature, a preliminary draft law was delivered to the Council of State in consultation with various stakeholders, including the Länder. On the basis of that opinion, further discussions were held with the partners to develop a legally-binding mechanism. During the last few weeks, the various possibilities for obtaining broad support for the concrete implementation of the screening mechanism have been examined. In other words, no new request for advice was sent to the Council of State for the time being. My cabinet is now preparing a compromise proposal, which will normally be communicated to the various parties concerned in the second half of May. Good cooperation with the Länder is needed to roll out such a screening mechanism. So we are looking at how we can achieve a screening mechanism that is workable and efficient for all parties in this complex dossier. I hope, therefore, that a strong compromise will soon be reached which will respond to the main concerns of the various partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u70	Minister, it is absolutely right that we should introduce that screening mechanism, because our group was also a asking party, especially when we see that it already exists in many EU countries and that it is being tightened up in a number of countries, such as Germany. If I am in favour, 13 to 14 EU countries have already joined, and that makes us very vulnerable as long as we are not connected. That is why it is very important that the mechanism gets there quickly, but also that it is high quality. I am therefore very curious about the text, how the procedure will proceed, how wide the scope will be, what the threshold will be to avoid abuse or loopholes and whether a prior notification obligation will be introduced. These are all matters that our group is very interested in. I would also like to stress once again that the regions should not play a subordinate role here, but should play an equal role. You should really aim for an inter-federal system in which the regions can play a full partner role.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u71	Minister, I am of course aware of the European regulation you are referring to, but most of all you have answered my question in a woolly manner. I asked what the screening mechanism would look like, but you replied in general terms and did not really go into the matter in depth. The only question that was really answered is to what extent the Länder will be involved. I have received an answer to this, but you did not actually tell me what specific sectors will be involved and when the government envisages the roll-out of the initiative. I'm sorry about that. There are still cases on which the government makes major statements on the radio or in the newspaper, but when that file comes to committee, the Minister never gives answers. I'm sorry about that. As Members of Parliament, we often hear more in the press than in the answers to the questions we put in committee. Actually, I'm sorry about that. It is also high time that the screening mechanism was put in place. All our neighbours and other European countries have that. In preparing my legislative proposal, I even conducted a benchmark study on what is happening in other countries outside Europe. In America, for example, there are certain mechanisms for this. So we are very much behind in Belgium. My bill on this subject will be dealt with in the coming weeks. I can only hope that the government will do its homework and that it will hurry as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u72	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers, thank you for your question. Indeed, certain factors that determine our competitiveness play a role in the preparation of the relaunch plan, such as digitisation and infrastructure. Although productivity growth is not an end in itself, this lever can increase the well-being of our population. There are many factors that determine competitiveness, such as innovation. Our country is a strong innovator, with a score above the EU average, including through a sound research system. Belgium has an excellent telecom infrastructure. Now, above all, we need to maximize its use even more. One of the beneficial side effects of the corona crisis is the increase in our employees' digital skills. However, we must not lose sight of the digital divide. The government has committed itself to closing this gap as much as possible. Excellent human capital is one of the most important factors to differentiate ourselves from competition. Nevertheless, the employment rate in our country remains too low. Despite a recent improvement, it remains the lowest compared to our three major neighbours. My administration is indeed preparing a detailed follow-up of the activities within the Belgian economic fabric. Once sufficient statistics are available for the past period, the administration will finalise its analysis. This is likely to happen in the second quarter of 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u73	Mr President, Minister, competitiveness is indeed extremely important, especially in the current corona crisis. It will also be extremely important that we continue to monitor this capacity. You yourself state that many factors are important to determine competitiveness, such as innovation. Our wages are certainly also very important in order to remain competitive on the market. Maintaining the wage bill is absolutely necessary in this respect. You yourself state that the employment rate is far too low. Here too, we must look again at wages, which also determines competitiveness.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u74	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers, a study was carried out in the context of digitisation and simplification of processes. This study has led to a series of proposals to improve the application of eGriffie. The FPS Justice will be able to use this for the development of the new version of eGriffie. On the one hand, the current application is extended so that all private documents can be deposited electronically and, on the other hand, the application is improved. It will also generate the publication in the Belgian Official Journal on the basis of the data entered in the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises. The KBO will provide the necessary technical input so that the application can easily feed the register of legal persons. The KBO recently commissioned a study on the future IT platform. New technologies will improve and facilitate the services of the FBO. As regards the Single Digital Gateway Regulation, the Administrative Simplification Service is responsible for the overall implementation plan, the project steering group and the coordination of the different project groups for the implementation of the SDG Regulation. The KBO is in contact with the Administrative Simplification Service. However, the precise role that the CBO will play needs to be further clarified. The KBO will give priority to the developments needed to comply with the SDG Regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic462x.u75	Minister, it is absolutely important to work quickly on digitisation and simplification, so thank you for this interim state of affairs. We will continue to monitor this and hopefully we will be able to make it much easier for our entrepreneurs to do so.
