ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u1	Minister, the Supreme Court of Justice is rightly concerned about the measures to be taken in concrete terms in the context of the follow-up to the 'Special examination of Steven Bakelmans' file'. Strict monitoring of the implementation of all these recommendations is particularly important if we are to ensure that justice is ensured. A questionnaire was drawn up by the Supreme Court for Justice in which a large part of the answer to the questions put by the Supreme Court for Justice is the responsibility of the Government, which is responsible for its implementation. It is particularly important to follow this very closely and to take the necessary initiatives if the government really thinks it is necessary to tackle these problems vigorously. Hence my interplay to find out what has happened so far. I refer to my written questions:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u2	Madam President, two weeks ago, in this committee, I replied to Mr De Wit that, like you, I received a question from the Supreme Court of Justice on a state of affairs regarding the recommendations made. I said then that our reply would be sent within the time limit given to us, in particular by 28 June 2021 at the latest. Although I did not receive the request from the Supreme Court, like the President of the Chamber, until 1 June 2021, I already reviewed a number of recommendations in this committee two weeks ago and indicated how we are actively working on them. The next day I will give our answer to the Supreme Court, to this committee and also to you, Mr Dillen, so that everyone can take note of it. So you will soon find out what progress has been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u3	Thank you very much, Minister, for this brief answer. If I understand correctly, this committee will receive the answers to the questions of the Supreme Court of Justice by 28 June 2021 at the latest. I therefore hope, Madam President, that we will have the opportunity to discuss this on the substance in a further committee. Indeed, some of the recommendations do not fall exclusively within the competence of the Minister or the legislator, but go much further. I should therefore like to call for an exchange of views with all the actors concerned at a meeting of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u4	We will indeed. We'll take that suggestion with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u5	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Marijke Dillen and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - whereas the horrific murder of the far too young Julie Van Espen led to a special investigation into Steve Bakelmans' file; - whereas the High Court of Justice closed its special investigation with several recommendations, not only with a view to ensuring that certain errors or shortcomings are avoided in the future, but also with a view to improving the general legislative and policy-making framework; - whereas the recommendations of such a nature that there was a general consensus within the Committee on Justice to discuss and deal with them as a matter of priority and therefore as soon as possible; - whereas, today, more than 25 months have elapsed since the gruesome facts giving rise to the examination of the Supreme Court, on the one hand, and the General Assembly, on 19 December 2019, approved the report of the Supreme Court of Justice on the investigation conducted, on the other; - whereas a large part of the recommendations relate to the policy implementing framework, whereby only the Government in general and the Minister of Justice in particular are empowered and responsible for meeting these recommendations, greeds, comments and proposed improvements, as shown in the questionnaire on the recommendations already made by the Supreme Court of Justice and submitted to Members of Parliament; asks the government take the necessary policy measures immediately and put them into practice so that all the proposed recommendations, the impact of which depends on government policy, can be implemented in the shortest possible time." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l.o.interpellation de Mme Marijke Dillen and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - Considering that the horrific murder of the much too young Julie Van Espen led to a particular investigation into the Steve Bakelmans case; - Whereas the High Council of Justice has concluded its specific inquiry with various recommendations aimed at ensuring that certain errors or shortcomings are avoided in the future, but also at improving the general legislative framework and the implementation of the policy; - Considering that the recommendations in question were of such a nature that there was a general consensus within the Justice Committee that they should be considered and dealt with as a matter of priority and therefore as soon as possible; - Considering that more than 25 months have passed since the atrocious facts which led to the investigation of the Supreme Council and that the report prepared by the Supreme Council of Justice on the investigation carried out was approved by the General Assembly on 19 December 2019; - Whereas a large part of the recommendations relate to the policy implementation framework, for which the Government in general and the Minister of Justice in particular are solely empowered and competent to respond to the recommendations, expectations, observations mentioned and the proposed improvements, which is all the more evident from the list of questions drawn up by the Supreme Council of Justice and submitted to Parliament with regard to the recommendations already made; asks the government take and implement immediately the necessary policy measures so that all proposed recommendations, the implementation of which depends on government policy, can be implemented as soon as possible." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u6	Minister, I also asked Minister Verlinden this question last week. On 27 January, Europol announced that an important ransomware network had been rolled up. There were a huge number of victims, including companies, whose computers were blocked. Users had to pay ransom to get their data back, no matter what they did. After all, these companies had no other choice. Mr Goukens, professor of European and world institutions at the Thomas More Hogeschool, has carried out research which shows that the victims remain completely cold because of "a forest of umbrellas opening up national ministries of justice, police, Europol, Eurojust and other institutions." Justice and police in Belgium and the Netherlands, among other things, do nothing with the stolen data about the victims or with the confiscated amounts of money and crypto coins. The victims who are not part of the government have never been contacted. However, the EMPACT has completely deciphered the EMOTET network's central server and the platform itself claims that it was the greatest victory against creators of ransomware in history. The latter is more and more like gratuite magnificence. It is claimed that there is no time to inform all victims. The CERT would be competent to do so, but in turn refers to other services. That is why I have drawn up eight questions and put them in a motion. When will the prosecution contact those involved so that they can take further legal action? For the other questions I refer to the written version of my interpretation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u7	To clarify for the geeks, the EMOTET network is not a ransomware network. It is a complex botnet that allows other criminal groups to install their own malware via their network on the computer system compromised by the botnet. There may be criminals who want to spread ransomware, but it may also be criminals with other intentions, for example to spread spam. Nor does an infected computer system already have to have experienced any adverse effects from the infection by EMOTET. In that case it is a simple dormant infection, with the bone in the botnet waiting to be used by other criminals who want to pay the perpetrators behind the system for that. It is also sometimes said that EMOTET only installs malware and offers an access ticket for sale to other offender groups for countless infected computer systems around the world. A botnet must have it from the large numbers. The EMOTET botnet has been one of the largest and most complex active botnets worldwide in recent years. The international intervention in February 2021 led to a serious disruption of that network. Servers were confiscated and analysed. I come to your specific questions. First of all, I would like to say that some of your questions relate to the Centre for Cyber Security, CCB, and to the CERT, in particular your third and seventh questions. You know that this is the prime minister's responsibility, so these questions should be addressed to him. Your sixth question concerns the GDPR and should be addressed to the competent Secretary of State Michel. Mrs. Bury, you say the police don't have time to report everything. Mostly through the international CERT community, the investigating countries have transmitted lists to third countries indicating infections of systems on their own territory. After the intervention, the Belgian police also received a list of IP addresses belonging to the range of Belgian internet service providers that appear to be infected with EMOTET malware. It is not correct to say that this list relates to victims of ransomware who would have paid blackmailers to decrypt an encrypted computer system. These are bots that can be switched on for various purposes, such as spreading spam messages or performing a DDoS attack in which they themselves do not suffer any financial damage. In order to bring the infections to an end as soon as possible, the list of these bots was transferred by the Belgian police to the CCB as part of its legal mission to increase cyber security in Belgium. Since the CCB does not yet have its own legal authority to have IP addresses identified with this finality, they cannot directly contact the providers' customers themselves. Only the providers know which customer they have assigned to which IP address at what time. As the CCB has apparently explained, these IP addresses were delivered to the service providers with a proposal for an accompanying e-mail message from the CCB, which allows the providers to explain to their customers exactly what is going on. Thus, there is no question of the "slideover of" but of having certain tasks carried out by the partner best placed for this purpose, in this case the CERT as the operational service of the CCB. This is always done in consultation with and with the consent of the prosecution. I come to your second question. In some cases, at the request of the Public Prosecutor, the CERT is indeed called upon to inform potential victims. The CERT has the necessary contacts with the various providers, who in turn can inform their customers and, if necessary, assist in the restoration of their systems. Normally it is always about Belgian end users. Data relating to international users will normally be shared through Europol's European Cybercrime Centre. In this case, lists of IP addresses were provided stating that only the CERT should notify victims and that data should not be used in the investigation, nor should it be shared with other parties. With regard to your questions four and five, I would like to inform you that the Belgian police and the judiciary were not involved in this investigation and this intervention. For helping the victims, I refer to my answer to your first two questions. I come to your eighth question. International police cooperation usually takes place through the Europol European Cybercrime Centre channel. The Joint Cybercrime Action Task Force of the European Cybercrime Centre can also work together in concrete cases. Finally, I come to your ninth question. When end-users are informed of a potential cybersecurity problem, there is no need for an intrusion or a disadvantage. If it is found that damage has been suffered, victims can rely on the same channels as the victims of other crimes, in particular an insurance policy or the bourgeois-party procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u8	Madam President, Minister, thank you for explaining the whole thing. But you didn't figure it out. In your answer, you yourself show where the difficulties lie. If the CCB has the power to follow up on these cases, but does not take the next step, namely contacting the victims or the targets, there should be another interaction with the prosecution. But that's where it stays quiet. The D.A. can have the CERT operating. You say that before the GDPR I should turn to your colleague Michel. However, you yourself point out that the data is not shared and should not be shared. It was also Europol's operation. Justice and police in our country have not been involved. If a victim gets the answer I just got from you, he doesn't know where he can go. You also recommend following the regular channels and taking care of the insurance. However, if the first steps have not been taken, in particular that a public prosecutor knows who the victims are and who contacts them, the card house will collapse, no further steps can be taken and there is a problem. That is why I have worked out in a motion where there should be improvement. We all know that such things will happen much more in the future. That is why I am referring to my motion. In order for things to move forward, I will not read out the text of the motion but simply refer to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u9	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Katleen Bury and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - having regard to Europol's announcement that the world's most dangerous ransomware network was rolled up on 27 January 2021; - whereas the victims remain completely cold because of a forest of umbrellas opening up national ministries of justice, police, Europol, Eurojust and other institutions; - having regard to the fact that the Justice Department does not deal with the victim's looted data or with the amounts of money and crypto coins seized; - whereas the victims who did not appear to be part of the government were never contacted; - whereas the Justice Department claims not to have time to inform all victims and transfer the hot potato to CERT.be; - whereas this criminal negligence amounts to (at least) negligence and even collusion after the facts of the government; asks the government - urgently take the necessary initiatives to notify and inform all victims in the first instance; - then initiate the necessary procedures to enable victims to exhaust the necessary remedies to be compensated in one way or another; - to check the arrangements with the CERTs in the UK, Canada, Japan, Australia etc.; - examine how other EU countries notify, notify and initiate the necessary procedures." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Katleen Bury and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - in view of Europol's announcement of the dismantling on 27 January 2021 of the world's most dangerous railway network; Whereas the victims are completely abandoned in the face of the refusal of the national ministries of justice, the police, Europol, Eurojust and other institutions to assume their responsibilities; - Whereas the Court does nothing in relation to the data stolen from the victims or the quantities of money and cryptocurrency seized; Whereas at no time has contact been made with the victims who are not part of the authorities; - Whereas the Court of Justice claims that it does not have time to inform all victims and refers the bullet to CERT.be; - Whereas this illegitimate negligence constitutes (at least) a guilty abstention or even complicity of the authorities after the facts; asks the government - to take urgent steps to notify and inform all victims in the first place; - then initiate appropriate procedures to enable victims to exhaust the necessary remedies in order to obtain some form of compensation; - to verify agreements with CERTs in the United Kingdom, Canada, Japan, Australia, etc.; - to study how other EU Member States notify, inform victims in their countries and initiate the necessary procedures." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Boukili's 55018947C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u10	Madam President, Minister, at the beginning of June, students in the sixth high school of a school in Essen, in the province of Antwerp, came across a video published on the known platform TikTok, a platform very popular with our young people on which they sometimes spend hours watching, publishing and sharing videos. This video was divided into two sequences. On the first one, a young girl dances annoyedly. On the second, two men behead one person. These are obviously two distinct scenes joined to lure the netizens. It would come from a gang-to-gang settlement in Mexico in 2019. An investigation is now under way to find out who is the author and the broadcaster of this video and its (or their) motivation. In any case, it is particularly shocking that such videos can be shared, but also that algorithms can offer it on news feeds from social networks whose main users are young or even very young. For TikTok, the average age of users is between 13 and 17 years. Therefore, Minister, what control does the authorities exercise over content published on online platforms such as TikTok, particularly with regard to content that violates public morality? Are you considering taking steps to further protect our young people from the content offered to them? On Facebook, when one wishes to post a video, it is processed and analyzed before being published. Here, the video could have been posted directly. On what basis does Facebook decide whether or not to allow the publication of a video? Would a beheading video be missed? If so, is it possible to require the processing and analysis of each video posted on social media prior to its publication with respect to certain types of content? Is it possible to impose that a certain type of video, or even content, including the one whose publication is finally authorized, can be limited, for example by not being able to be shared or proposed by algorithms, as Facebook had done with Donald Trump?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I had the opportunity to answer one of your questions about Telegram two weeks ago in the same committee. As I mentioned, within the Federal Police, the Central Directorate for Combating Serious and Organized Crime (DJSOC) has the i2-IRU (Internet Reference Unit). This section searches for illegal content on the Internet, including social media. The content is then reported to the platforms with a view to requesting its removal. When a Belgian interest is discovered, legal proceedings are initiated to identify the publisher. TikTok is one of the platforms followed by the i2-IRU section. In this case, the beheading scene was incorporated into another video, which camouflaged its content. So this scene had become undetectable. The section does not have tools to conduct targeted searches or a specific distinction. All searches are done manually based on keywords forming the search criteria. In your second and third questions, you raise an important debate, but in which we must be particularly careful. We are dealing here with a fundamental right of our Constitution, that is, freedom of expression. It is out of the question of preventive censorship. Nevertheless, punishable acts, hate speech and punishable images, such as pornographic revenge, must be prosecuted. On what elements does Facebook use to decide whether or not to allow the publication of a video? So far, the answer to this question is provided by the platforms themselves, since they have a code of conduct, which users must comply with. In the event of an infringement, it is up to the moderators of the platform to carry out the review and possible withdrawal, either independently or as a result of a report by an Internet user or a police service. As you know and as I have mentioned several times before this committee in recent months, the Digital Services Act (DSA) is being prepared at European level. This DSA will clarify the rules on content that can and cannot be published and the remedies available in this context. However, after analyzing the previous facts, I have to nuance your comments, namely that Facebook does not publish a video directly. The Christchurch massacre in New Zealand is proof of this. It took YouTube several minutes to detect that it was really a murderous attack. This period of time was sufficient to allow the massive and exponential rebroadcasting of images. With regard to judicial withdrawal, the platform requires the issuance of a judicial summons or the execution of a procedure by treaty of mutual legal assistance or an international rogatory commission to execute a withdrawal, which requires the establishment of a judicial action. In order to facilitate and speed up international judicial action, a package of online evidence measures is also being worked on at European level, which will allow direct questioning of platforms or service providers abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u12	Minister, thank you for your very detailed answers. We are probably dealing here with freedom of expression. But in this case, these are extremely violent images, since it is about the beheading of a man and the publication of a video that relates a crime. So we are faced with absolute horror. In my opinion, these images incite violence. Incitement to violence is an offence that is punishable under our Criminal Code. Such images should therefore not be disseminated, especially to a particularly young, vulnerable and influential audience. Nor can we forget the collective indignation that followed the beheading of Professor Samuel Paty in France on 16 October 2020, which has been discussed at length in this House. This indignation must be followed by acts in real life as well as on social networks. I hear the work that is being done today by the specific section of the federal police in the search for illegal content on social networks, but also in order to have these same content removed. Still, as you say, the federal police do not always have the right tools to conduct targeted searches. Here I would really like to avoid TikTok having the opportunity to authorize the publication of content because he would have found the trick to incorporate illegal content into content that, at first glance, is not. For the rest, collaboration at international and European level is of course essential. However, it is also necessary to be able to work on algorithms, especially for publications that target minors, and to work with other social networks that, unlike Facebook – we have misunderstood – allow the direct publication of videos. The faster we act, the more we can prevent a video from circulating like this, even after being removed from social networks, as was unfortunately the case with this decapitation video.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u13	Mrs Rohnoyi, first of all, applications for a change of name for a minor must be submitted by both parents, unless one of them has been deprived of parental authority over the child concerned, in accordance with Article 370/3 § 1 of the Civil Code. In the event of a disagreement between the parents as to the child's interest in having his or her name changed, the family court may be referred to the court for the purpose of allowing a single parent to make such a request, cf. Article 373(3) and (4) of the Civil Code. For your second and third questions, the law requires that any request for a change of name be based on serious grounds. It is indeed legitimate that the child does not wish to retain the family name of one of his or her parents when he or she commits violence against him or her. The situations you refer to, particularly when the child is a victim of morals, physical and/or psychological abuse by one of his or her parents, constitute serious grounds within the meaning of the law. In such cases, the administration shall kindly examine the application submitted by a single parent. The reality of the complaints against the parent who committed the violence can be established by all means: conviction, filing of a complaint, medical certificate, psychiatric and/or psychological follow-up certificate, testimony, etc. Where it is shown that the acts alleged by the parent are real and serious and render the carrying of his name intolerable, the minor shall be granted a change of name. You will understand, dear colleague, that we have to look at situations on a case-by-case basis, but I can reassure you about the ability of existing legal standards to take into account the problem that you have raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answer and for your attention to this problem. When a child is the victim of domestic violence, it is already very difficult for him or her to rebuild. We can imagine how much more it is when the same child must then continue to bear the surname of his executioner for the rest of his days. I understand that the law lists a number of reasons that may justify the change of name, including the revocation of parental authority or cases of violence. When I read the law, it seemed to me that it wasn't as clear as that, I'll check it out. I am pleased to hear that there is some flexibility in the report as to the reasons for requesting this name change. We must not wait for a conviction for acts of violence, a medical certificate may be sufficient to support this request. I found that in France there was a possibility of changing the family name for emotional reasons as well as exceptional circumstances. Perhaps the formula here is broader and allows the magistrate to have a broad discretion in the application for a change of name.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u15	Madam President, Minister, one of the components of the Flemish Decree of 15 February 2019 on juvenile delinquency provides for a range of penalties for young people who have committed what is now known as juvenile offences. These penalties include sentences of imprisonment of 2, 4 or 7 years, which may be imposed on any minor under 18 years of age, depending on his or her age. Given the seriousness of these sanctions, the decree initially provided that these measures were applicable to young people under 16 years of age only in "exceptional circumstances". Certain provisions of the Decree also referred to severe and exceptional compelling circumstances relating to the requirements for the protection of public safety. In the subsequent ruling of 11 February 2021, the Constitutional Court held that this formulation of exceptional circumstances was ultimately too vague and therefore conducive to arbitrary action and that the principle of criminal legality was therefore not respected. Therefore, this Order could not apply as it stands. That is why, on 4 June, the Flemish Government submitted a draft decree which provides that young people between the ages of 12 and 16 may be sentenced to long-term imprisonment when they commit specifically identified offences, namely homicide, terrorism and, soon, rape with or without aggravating circumstances. These measures are expected to enter into force on 1 September 2022. Therefore, Minister, what is your position on the advisability of providing for such sentences, up to seven years of deprivation of liberty, against minors? Can alternatives to deprivation of liberty be considered? Has the impact of these new measures been assessed on the prison population or in PJPI? If so, by which entity and with what conclusions? Are prison sentences designed to take into account the specific needs of minors? If so, how? Finally, what powers did the federal government retain after the 6th reform of the State with regard to juvenile justice issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u16	Mevrouw de voorzitster, dear colleague, the government agreement of 1 December 2011 (it was the Di Rupo government, if I am not mistaken) provided in point 3.4.3 that the law punishing young people would be communalised for the following matters: definition of the nature of the measures, rules of divestiture, rules of placement in closed institutions and closed establishments, according to arrangements to be determined. This provision of the Government Agreement was incorporated into Article 5 of the Special Act of 8 August 1980. By this amendment, only the execution of sentences imposed on minors who have committed an offence, who have been the subject of a divestiture measure, is maintained at the federal level, with the exception of the management of centres for the reception of such young persons until the age of 23. The determination of the level of criminal penalties for these minors falls within the exclusive competence of the Communities. Given the division of powers that I have just outlined, it is not up to me to decide whether to provide for such sanctions. On the other hand, I can say that it will always be up to the substantive judge to impose an appropriate sanction, taking into account the specific needs of the minor and within the limits set by the decree, without prejudice to the rules of international law directly applicable in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u17	Minister, thank you for your succinct answer. I can perfectly understand that you are not in a position to comment on a measure that has been taken by the Flemish Government. However, this decision may have an impact on your skills, in particular on the follow-up of these young people who, at some point, will become adults and will have to be taken care of in our prisons. It must be avoided that, by taking punishments that would sometimes be heavy or inappropriate for the acts committed or, in any case, at the age of the perpetrators, these people eventually become time bombs. I'm still disappointed that you can't give even your feelings about it. I had already asked you about this regionalisation of justice, partly decided under the Di Rupo government but which seems to be strengthening in the light of certain statements, particularly by the Flemish Minister of Justice. The powers of the federated entities are being touched upon. I can regret it, but that's how it is. However, we can still ask ourselves the question of where we are going to stop if our visions of youth protection continue to differ as much, until we apply a two-tiered justice where a minor of age would not be treated at all in the same way depending on the region in which he or she is located and where he or she has committed acts. I find that to be a question, and I appeal to your vigilance as to the perverse effects that this could have on your own skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u18	Minister, since 22 March 2016, assistance to victims of the Brussels attacks has been the keystone for the reconstruction of families. This assistance is complex because it requires multidisciplinary, financial, administrative, legal, medical and psychological assistance. Belgian legislation on the subject is a real minefield. In the aftermath of 22 March 2016, rather than simplifying the procedures for victims, Belgium multiplied them and made them more complex. Without free and accessible front-line assistance, victims are delivered to themselves. Recently, I questioned you because we found out in the press that you had entrusted to the V-Europe victim support association the task of coaching the victims of terrorism. In order to do this, you have granted him a subsidy of EUR 300 000, which, in the end, amounts to discriminating the second support association for victims of terrorism in Belgium, Life4Brussels, which has been considerably professionalised for several years, by providing legal aid to victims as well as full support including precisely coaching, for several years. Life4Brussels did not receive such a sum from your administration. It was not included in this project. This raises many questions, especially with regard to the hundreds of victims – more than 500 – who are followed by Life4Brussels. Why are they not included in this coaching project? I was not satisfied with your last response on Wednesday, 9 June, just as the victims themselves were not. You tell me to be "of course aware of the existence of these two associations." Minister, when an association requests a subsidy from an organization or an institution, it is for a project that concerns its association and more specifically a project for members of its association. In this case, V-Europe has asked you for a subsidy for a project that concerns all the victims of the attacks and not just the victims who are members of its association. As far as a state project is concerned, at the very least you could have had the decency to contact Life4Brussels to talk to her about it and ask her if she wanted to participate. You indicate that on 25 November 2020, you met with V-Europe, which was already a recognised victim association. She then submitted to you the proposal for a coaching project. On January 5, you met with Life4Brussels, who also submitted several suggestions. On this occasion, why didn't you tell him about the coaching project by asking him for his advice and soliciting his cooperation? I would point out to you that many of the members of the latter association, with whom I am in close contact, "are currently feeling a bias against Minister Van Quickenborne". This feeling is reinforced by the answers you provide, which tend to discredit the association in question. You said: "I fully agree with you: first, it is up to the State to take the necessary initiatives to help victims of terrorist acts. Many initiatives have already been taken in this regard, both by the federal authorities and by the Communities." We would like to know, Minister, what these initiatives have been taken over the past five years by the federal or the Communities to support the victims. You know, after hell, it was injustice that took place in families. The victims of the attacks of 22 March 2016 were abandoned in the hands of the insurance companies, which, let us recall, are companies responsible for earning profits to the detriment of the victims they compensate. It has been five years since the latter fought and filed appeals to assert their rights. In March, you announced that you had made the final decision not to introduce a victim guarantee fund. This decision resounded as a sentence, especially for Abdellah Lahlali and his wife Loubna. Abdellah, whom I met, lost a great deal in this tragedy and relied heavily on this government to correct the shooting and mistakes made by his predecessor. It should also be noted that in 2012 the central prosecutor's directive on victims' rights was adopted setting minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims to be applied throughout the Union (Directive 2012/29/EU). These include the right to information, the right to access victim assistance services, procedural rights, including access to criminal justice, the right to protection, and the right to compensation for damage. Belgium has not respected any of these rights. The findings were made by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry as well as by the victims themselves. Belgium has not even transposed this directive into national law, which was set at 16 November 2015, a few months before the attacks of 22 March 2016. I would add that while the idea of coaching is a great idea for future victims, this coaching project unfortunately arrives too late for the victims of March 22, 2016. You say that coaches can assist victims in the steps they have to take or want to take. You have obviously been misinformed because there are no real steps to be taken for the victims since most of the deadlines have come to an end. The only steps that can still be taken are mainly remedies that must be drafted and introduced by lawyers and legal professionals. With regard to the question of deadlines, I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the victims are waiting for an urgent initiative on your part, and you will come to the conclusion that changing the deadlines for foreclosure would discriminate against victims of attacks under ordinary law. Not only is this not the case, but today it is the victims of attacks who are discriminated against. This situation cannot continue! I will close my speech with the most important point. When I asked you the first time, I drew your attention to the fact that one of the victims' associations was set aside by your administration, with the result that as of September this association would no longer be able to function, for lack of resources, and that it will therefore no longer be able to provide support and follow-up to the victims she has been in charge of for five years. You replied that an invitation to collaborate on the project had been sent to Life4Brussels. When she asked your firm what it meant by "collaboration", your administration replied that "it is Life4Brussels to answer this question and it is not the authority to say how to collaborate". He was also suggested to bring his experience by putting his ideas on paper. A meeting took place on 7 May, following which a PV was drafted by Life4Brussels and forwarded to your firm and to the V-Europe association, the association which received 300,000 euros of subsidies. The latter will not agree to the content of the VP and will decide to break any negotiations. Furthermore, following the letter received from Life4Brussels containing the evidence of the declarations, you can no longer ignore that the V-Europe association does not comply with the conditions for granting the authorisation. Indeed, this association has forced some victims to make a choice between the two associations. The V-Europe association refused to assist certain victims because they were part of Life4Brussels. What is it really about? Does this brief excerpt give you the impression of a relationship of mutual collaboration? Isn't this unequal posture between the two associations shocking you? How can we imagine a successful outcome for the victims in these conditions? Is the situation of the victims in your eyes ideal enough to enable us to dispense consciously with the expertise of one of the two associations? You encourage collaboration after promoting one of the associations and then your administration clears itself of any managerial responsibility to avoid abuse of position. How do you really want us to believe that this is your will? There is every indication that this is a manoeuvre in order to remove your responsibility for this situation of discrimination. Should I expect to hear from you in two weeks' time that "Life4Brussels has herself made the decision not to collaborate again when we reached out to him"? Life4Brussels is still waiting for a return from your firm. Do you confirm that, minister? Should such hypocrisy be expected in this case? I don't think you want to. It is still time for your government to correct this situation and to redress this unjustified difference in treatment. Will you go back to the initial allocation and share the annual grants between the two associations in equal shares and allow them to set up this project together? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u19	Mr Minister, it must be admitted that, since the attacks in Brussels on 22 March 2016 and the recommendations of the committee of inquiry that followed, some legislative progress has been made. However, as my colleague rightly explained, many victims still feel "forsaken" by the authorities. In fact, many of them had to wait more than a year before they had to be recognised the important status of national solidarity. That is why, since 2016, my group has been questioning the various ministers of the various governments to ensure that the rights of the victims are respected. Last March, I asked you about the creation of a fund to compensate victims of terrorist attacks. On this occasion, I proposed that you create a single, clear and precise list of victims. This list would have had the merit of facilitating the transmission of useful information to victims, with a view to informing them of their rights and providing them with the support they deserve. This proposal was not accepted. However, we see that there are still shortcomings in the follow-up of victims. Some victims who reside abroad, for example, receive their pension one year late, while Belgian victims receive their pension each month. Several victims were also forced to write an insurance report in a language they sometimes do not even know. In the Justice Committee on 9 June, I asked you this time, like my colleague, about the vagueness that still surrounds today's subsidy granted to an association of victims as part of a coaching project. Let's be very clear! My group fully supports the objective of reconstruction and support of victims through this coaching project. What is being asked here is the criteria for the allocation of this subsidy, the conditions of coaching, but also the reasons why your firm preferred one association rather than another. In this regard, I would remind you that the Life4Brussels association has been coaching victims for more than five years. Unfortunately, the responses provided at that meeting were not satisfactory and left many questions outstanding. For example, you have not specified the type of training that these coaches should take to be able to work with victims of the attacks, or if you believe that only two coaches would actually be sufficient to provide coaching for nearly 800 victims a year, as announced. You also did not specify to me the type of form that coaches should fill out for victims, since almost all the deadlines have expired and the only actions still possible today are appeals against decisions taken that can only be brought by lawyers. However, this question, Minister, deserves to be answered to the extent that a coach who does not fill out a form or who does not file an application within the time limits prescribed by law would incur his or her responsibility. It must also be noted that not all victim associations are around the table. In this regard, you have indicated your support for greater collaboration between the various associations, without, however, indicating the means they would have to do so or how your firm would intervene in order to facilitate exchanges between them. The creation of a guarantee fund was also refused. Indeed, in 2019, the previous government preferred to use the subrogation mechanism, while this guarantee fund is a constant demand from victims and the associations that represent them. This request is in line with the Directive of 25 October 2012 laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime, including the right of access to information, the right to victim support or restorative justice services and the right of access to criminal justice. Mr Minister, it has now been more than five years since the victims of the Brussels attacks tried to rebuild themselves. The new approaches which they are sometimes forced to carry out alone, without any accompaniment, cannot continue or reproduce. As for the more specific project of coaching victims, it must be able to apply in order to support victims in their reconstruction process, but with all the guarantees of transparency and professionalism that are necessary for the benefit of the victims. Minister, what are the criteria for allocating the subsidy for which an amount of EUR 300 000 has been granted to one association, but not to another? Are you considering reviewing the decision to grant this subsidy in order to redress this difference in treatment between associations representing victims of terrorist acts? Finally, how are you going to meet one of the constant requests from victims and their associations to increase the legal deadline for submitting a request for financial assistance to victims of terrorism from the Commission for financial assistance?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u20	Minister, I am taking the floor on the issue because it would not be good to hide when it comes to a matter that has been dear to us since 2016. It is not the first time that there has been discussion between the victims' associations set up in connection with the attacks by Maalbeek and Zaventem. I am sure, Minister, that you, like me, are doing your utmost to maintain the serenity of the climate between the two victims' associations as much as possible. I insist that that would happen. It is a little easier for me than for you to say that you should also urge colleagues. The controversy in this area is not healthy, not for the victims, not for the country, not for the public interest. You have so far chosen the proposal developed by V-Europe. At first glance, cooperation between the two organisations will be disrupted over the next few months and perhaps even years. I very much hope not, because everyone has an interest in that. Minister, can you explain to us why you chose the coaching project of V-Europe and why you agree with that for the support of the victims? Can you confirm that the project does not exclude any victims from the attacks? I'd like to hear you confirm to reassure everyone. What steps, you believe, can be taken to ensure that the cooperation between V-Europe and Life4Brussels, now that they are both recognized by the King, does not tarnish further? I thank you for your answer and wish you a great deal of courage in carrying out this difficult task. I am aware of that. I know what it's about. All right, let's go!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u21	Colleagues, many questions from colleagues Boukili and Rohonyi have been asked many times over the past few months. I am constantly asked the same or comparable questions and that is not because I am not answering the questions, but because the answers do not seem to be those desired. So I gradually give up the hope of satisfying you with my answers, let alone convincing you. In the meantime, I am taking on my responsibilities as Federal Minister of Justice, also for victims. In answer to your questions, I would like to share with you the following points, without falling into overt repetition in relation to my previous answers. The choice of V-Europe for the coach project is not a choice against a specific association of victims but a choice for the victims. Colleague Geens, all victims of terrorism will be able to appeal. The question even casts doubt on the usefulness of these coaches. That surprises me. This project has been requested not only by the victims but also by parliamentarians. A number of victims are always asking for help to accompany them in different ways, but also with an attentive ear and warm support. I have already tried to explain to you on 9 June why V-Europe was chosen. I will not repeat my answer, I will simply add that the V-Europe association was approved by the Royal Decree of 29 November 2019. The approval was based on the following points. Firstly, the association is organised as an international non-profit association with its headquarters in Belgium. Secondly, the aim of this association is to support the victims of terrorism in a sustainable and effective manner and without any discrimination. Thirdly, the association has the power to appoint persons within the association who have the necessary training, professional experience and sufficient legal knowledge of the legislation applicable to assist victims of terrorism. Mr Geens, V-Europe is also internationally recognised. In 2018-2019, V-Europe was appointed to investigate the situation of the victims of terror in Europe for the special report to investigate compensation of victims of Ms Milquet for the then President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker. V-Europe is a member of the executive committee of the European Centre of Expertise for Victims of Terrorism, where V-Europe represents the European associations of victims of terror. The Victims' Rights Platform was established in 2020-2021 at the initiative of European Commissioner Didier Reynders. V-Europe was recognised as a member of that platform of the European Commission. V-Europe is working with European and pan-European partners to better support victims of terror. We agree: it is up to the State to take the necessary initiatives to help the victims of terrorist acts. Many initiatives have already been taken in this regard, both by the federal authorities and by the Communities. This does not prevent civil society from playing a role. The proposal developed by V-Europe was based on the observation that, despite all the efforts of all the competent actors, and without denying them, an additional effort could be useful for some victims, namely to be able to call on coaches to assist them. The project has been carefully examined. The corresponding Royal Decree will describe precisely the tasks expected and the conditions to be fulfilled in order to benefit from the grant. I have already explained to you in detail why it does not seem appropriate to reconsider the decision taken by my predecessor with regard to the time limit for applying for aid. Finally, Mr Geens, as regards the acidification of victims' associations and the way in which they can be combated, I invite you to reread my reply at the committee meeting on 9 June. I explained at that time that we had a conversation in my cabinet with a view to reconciliation between the two victims' associations, but that was nothing. I also made it clear on 9 June that the victims' associations themselves bear responsibility for this, but, among other things, by making unsubstantiated accusations of serious crimes, they do not contribute to this at present. The most important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Coaches project can benefit all victims. I'm sure I'll be ready to evaluate the Coaches project with you in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u22	Minister, if we come back to question you, it is because your answers are sometimes incomplete or unsatisfactory. It is the victims who report it to us and who want answers. I do not understand how you justify this discrimination by stating the reasons why V-Europe would be entitled to this subsidy. You have a perfect right to prefer to work with this association than with Life4Brussels. Having said that, I ask for respect for the victims. Moreover, I would like to point out that in the past all ministers, officials and institutions who have been in contact with victim support associations for five years have always had the decency to warn both associations when it comes to granting subsidies and assistance or making any decision. This is the first time in five years that a minister has discriminated against victims, as it is not only about associations, but above all about victims who end up on Life4Brussels' board of directors. It seems to me essential to remind him here. You have justified the reason for granting a subsidy to V-Europe, but you do not explain why you refused to grant one to Life4Brussels, whereas – unlike the first – this association represents almost all the victims and benefits from expertise in this field. V-Europe testifies to its lack of knowledge when it considers that this coaching should involve 800 victims. She has no knowledge of the field or of the energy and time required for this work. For your part, you are going into this case without any questioning of your initial position, which is discriminatory against Life4Brussels. I do not understand, minister, how you can accept it or how you can, moreover, justify this situation by refusing to question your iniquitous and discriminatory position. It's really outrageous! Such a slap inflicted on the victims' faces is deeply unbearable. I will continue to ask you about this, as long as this injustice continues. It is indecent, in a country that claims to be democratic, to show such a lack of respect for the victims!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u23	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. To make things clear, if we keep questioning you, it is not because we are not satisfied with the content as such of your answers, but because you are not answering our questions. In doing so, there is still a blur which is quite unbearable not only for the small Members we are, but also and above all for the victims who feel legitimately discriminated against by your decision. As Mr Geens rightly explained, this controversy about the coaching project is not good for the victims. It was up to you not to create the conditions for this controversy by making the choice to support all associations, all victims and therefore not to discriminate between them. But that's what you did, Minister. Indeed, you say that all victims will now be able to use coaching. You are well aware, however, that this is not true, since only one association will benefit from a subsidy of the order of 300 000 euros to set up the latter, to the detriment of another association which was also recognised by royal decree in 2017. This association (I am talking about Life4Brussels) has also been recognised at European level. In particular, it participates actively in the work of the European Economic and Social Committee. Despite this, despite all the work done, it is totally excluded from this project, which, as I said, is fundamental to the victims. You say that conditions have been met by V-Europe, which is not the case with Life4Brussels, implying that Life4Brussels was unable to meet these conditions. Here, too, I register falsely. In particular, you mentioned the training requirement that these coaches should have followed. But you never specify what this training consists of. However, this is a crucial point, since it is a question of coaching people who have suffered an extremely heavy trauma. You also say that we should not worry, that a royal decree to clarify the conditions for this coaching project would soon be published. Can we know exactly when? Indeed, on 22 March 2021 you decided to grant a subsidy to an association on the occasion of the sad anniversary of the attacks. Three months later, we still don't know the conditions surrounding your decision. That is a little strong in terms of the transparency that you have to give to victims' associations and parliamentarians. As for the collaboration between the two associations, you do not tell us how they will be able to collaborate more knowing that one association has successfully and consistently refused to work with the other. It is the association that benefits from this subsidy that decides to exclude the other association and, in doing so, all the victims that Life4Brussels represents. Minister, in the face of such a situation, you cannot keep your head in the sand and you must intervene. That is why I am tabling a motion of recommendation that will have a dual purpose. First, make all the transparency on the project of coaching victims of terrorist attacks, in particular on the choice of your government to allocate a subsidy to one association rather than another, and get all the information on the project of coaching victims of terrorist attacks since we have still not seen the color of your royal decree. Secondly, the extension of the time limit for applying for financial assistance for victims of terrorism, not only on the basis of the recognition of the event as an act of terrorism, but also at the latest within three years from the date on which it was finally decided by a final decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u24	Minister, you would indeed be organising a meeting to enable cooperation between the two organisations, but I understand that it did not end well. It may be misplaced, but I would ask Mr Boukili and Mr Rohonyi to moderate the tone of their speeches on this issue. If that is the tone that would be used between the two associations, then we as Members of Parliament will not help the victims. Imagine for a moment that I would take the same tone with regard to the V-Europe Victim Association against the other association and against the Minister. It is a matter of general interest, of which we have all suffered. One does not speak of "Je m'inscris en faux" and other words I have heard. The way in which this debate is conducted does not demonstrate a mature democracy. I apologize humbly for having dared to say this. We are not helping these associations by taking over the tone they would use against each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u25	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mr. Nabil Boukili and Ms. Sophie Rohonyi and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - Whereas since 22 March 2016, assistance to victims of the Brussels attacks has been the keystone for the reconstruction of families; Whereas this aid is complex and needs to be multidisciplinary; - Whereas the Minister of Justice entrusted the V-Europe victim support association with the task of coaching victims of terrorism and granted it a subsidy of EUR 300 000; - Whereas the second support association, Life4Brussels, which has been highly professionalised for several years, by providing legal aid to victims, has not received such assistance while following more than 500 victims; - Whereas this association may no longer function, due to lack of resources, and will therefore no longer be able to provide support and follow-up to the victims it has been responsible for for for five years; - Whereas the V-Europe association does not meet the conditions for granting authorisation and has refused to support certain victims on the grounds that they were part of the Life4Brussels association; asks the government support, in equal shares, the two associations V-Europe and Life4Brussels." A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Nabil Boukili and Mrs Sophie Rohonyi and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - considering that the aid to the victims of the Brussels attacks since 22 March 2016 is essential for the families concerned to rebuild their lives; - whereas this aid is complex and must be multidisciplinary; - whereas the Minister of Justice has entrusted the V-Europe Victims Association with the task of coaching victims of terrorism and has awarded the association a grant of EUR 300,000; - whereas the second association of victims, Life4Brussels, which has been providing much more professional support in the form of legal assistance to the victims for a number of years, has not received a grant while accompanying more than 500 victims; - considering that the association may have to stop its activities in the event of a lack of resources and, consequently, will no longer be able to accompany and monitor the victims it has been supporting for five years; - whereas the association V-Europe did not meet the conditions for recognition and refused to support certain victims because they were members of the association Life4Brussels; asks the government to give equal support to the two associations V-Europe and Life4Brussels." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sophie Rohonyi and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mr. Nabil Boukili and Ms. Sophie Rohonyi and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - having regard to European Directive 2012/29/EU of 25 October 2012 laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime; - having regard to the Act of 18 July 2017 on the creation of the status of national solidarity, the granting of a compensation pension and the reimbursement of medical care following acts of terrorism; - having regard to the laws of 15 January and 3 February 2019 which regulate the granting of financial aid and advances to victims of violence and provide for a specific exception for victims of terrorism; - considering the many victims who waited more than a year before being recognized as national solidarity; - considering victims residing abroad who receive, for some of them, their pension one year late; - Considering the absence of a single list of victims with a view to informing them of their rights and providing them with the necessary support; - Considering the Minister's reply to the Justice and Home Affairs Committees on 23 March 2021 on the Government's decision not to create a guarantee fund for the compensation of victims of terrorist attacks; - considering the decision of the previous government to use the insurance mechanism and, in particular, the subrogation mechanism to compensate victims of terrorist acts; - Considering the Minister's response to the Justice Committee of 9 June 2021 on the desire to create a coaching project for victims of terrorist attacks through victim associations; - the granting of a subsidy of EUR 300 000 to the V-Europe association; - Whereas no subsidies have been granted to the Life4Brussels association; - Whereas the Minister specified in the Justice Committee of 9 June 2021 that cooperation between the V-Europe and Life4Brussels associations seemed to be compromised; - Whereas the Life4Brussels Association already has more than 5 years of experience in coaching victims of terrorist attacks; - Whereas Life4Brussels has brought more than 300 cases before the Commission for financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence and occasional rescuers; - Considering the recommendation contained in the "Assistance and relief" section of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to examine the circumstances which led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016, that "without prejudice to the rights of individual victims, associations representing the victims shall be recognised, shall receive administrative support and shall be able to receive financial support"; - taking into account the constant request by associations of victims of terrorist acts to extend the legal time limit for submitting a request for financial assistance for victims of terrorism; recommends to the Government - forward without delay to Parliament the draft coaching of the V-Europe association in order to clarify the criteria for allocating subsidies to associations of victims of terrorist attacks, with a view to making all the transparency on the government's choice to allocate one subsidy to one association rather than another; - to submit any document attesting to the competence of the V-Europe association in the area of coaching and victim assistance in order to ensure that they were verified by the government before the grant was granted; - to clarify the scope of the competences of the coaches of the victims of the terrorist attacks proposed by the V-Europe association; - to examine the request of associations of victims of terrorist acts to extend the time limit for applying for financial assistance for victims of terrorism, on the basis of the recognition of the event as an act of terrorism, and at the latest within three years from the date on which it was finally decided by a final decision." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sophie Rohonyi and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Nabil Boukili and Mrs Sophie Rohonyi and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - having regard to the European Directive 2012/29/EU of 25 October 2012 laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime; - having regard to the Law of 18 July 2017 on the establishment of the Statute for National Solidarity, the granting of a recovery pension and the reimbursement of medical care resulting from acts of terrorism, - having regard to the laws of 15 January and 3 February 2019, which regulate the granting of financial assistance and advances to victims of violence and provide for a specific exception for victims of terrorism; - in view of the many victims who have waited more than a year for the status of national solidarity to be granted; - having regard to the victims residing abroad, some of whom receive their pensions with a year's delay; - having regard to the lack of the only list of victims to inform them of their rights and to provide them with the necessary support; - having regard to the reply of the Minister in the Joint Committees on Justice and Home Affairs of 23 March 2021 concerning the Government's decision not to set up a guarantee fund for the compensation of victims of terrorist attacks; - having regard to the previous government's decision to use the insurance mechanism, and in particular the subrogation mechanism, to compensate victims of terrorist acts, - having regard to the Minister's reply in the Justice Commission of 9 June 2021 on the intention to set up a coaching project for victims of terrorist attacks through victim associations; - having regard to the award of a grant of EUR 300 000 to the association V-Europe, - whereas no subsidy was granted to the association Life4Brussels; - whereas the Minister stated in the Justice Commission of 9 June 2021 that cooperation between the V-Europe and Life4Brussels associations seemed to be at risk; - whereas the Life4Brussels Association has had more than five years of experience in coaching victims of terrorist attacks; - whereas the Life4Brussels Association has submitted more than 300 files to the Commission for financial assistance to victims of intentional violence and to occasional rescuers; - having regard to the recommendation of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016, which provides that "the representative victims' associations shall be recognised and supported both administratively and financially, without prejudice to the individual rights of victims"; - having regard to the continuing demand of the associations of victims of terrorist acts to extend the legal deadline for the submission of a request for financial assistance for the victims of terrorism; recommends the government (ii) to forward immediately the coaching project of the association V-Europe to Parliament in order to clarify the criteria for granting grants to associations of victims of terrorist attacks, so that there is full transparency about the government's choice to grant grants to one association and not to the other; - to submit any document demonstrating the expertise of the V-Europe association in coaching and assistance to victims, so as to ensure that this expertise was verified by the government prior to the award of the grant; - specify the degree of expertise of the coaches proposed by the V-Europe association of victims of terrorist attacks; - examine the question of associations of victims of acts of terrorism in order to extend the time limit for the submission of applications for financial aid for the victims of terrorism, from the recognition of the event as an act of terrorism, and not later than three years from the date on which a final decision was reached in the event of a final decision being taken.' A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u26	Madam President, it is a pity that Mr Geens is no longer here, but I cannot let that go. Because former Minister Geens makes us look like people who oppose one association to another. What is indistinguishable here is the fact that the government opposes the associations between them and makes the choice of one to the detriment of the other. It is this indignation that has been expressed in my colleague's words and in my own. That Mr. Geens is trying to exploit this as if we were throwing this contradiction between the two... It is not us, it is the government that is responsible for this situation and for this tension, since it is the government that has chosen to discriminate against one of the two associations by granting subsidies to one another and not to the other, whereas the other association has recognised expertise at European level, which was the basis of the dossier presented by Mrs Milquet. The remark was indecent. It would be good if the government and the majority were concerned about their own contradictions instead of trying to discredit the Members who stressed it. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u27	I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u28	Ms Bury, the verdict dates from 22 November 2017 and was pronounced by the rectional court of Antwerp. The person concerned was sentenced to a main prison sentence of 18 months, of which 12 months were postponed. The postponement was linked to a number of probation conditions and the probation period was set at 5 years. The end of the probationary period is scheduled for 22 November 2022. The following test conditions were imposed. First of all, don't commit any crimes. At the time of the execution of the sentence, the prosecution shall receive the minutes of persons under probation and shall charge them in the integrated electronic judicial succession file (GEJO). At the meeting of the Probation Committee, the records are reviewed and the Probation Committee is informed about the existence of new CVs. In the present case, no new CVs were drawn up during the probationary period of the person concerned until 14 June 2021. Secondly, have a fixed address and pass on any change of address to the judicial assistant. This condition has always been met by the person concerned to date. Thirdly, follow up on the appeals of the Probation Commission and the judicial assistant and follow their guidelines. The person concerned appeared at all sessions of the Probation Committee and was present at 11 office meetings with the judicial assistant. Twice he was absent from a meeting with the justice assistant. Shortly afterwards, he had to appear at a meeting of the Probation Committee, where he was instructed to observe agreements and to be transparent about any relationships. Fourthly, the follow-up of aggression therapy and do not stop it, unless in consultation with the judicial assistant and the treating physician. The person concerned initially indicated that he did not need therapy and that he did not see any added value in it. He did not even understand why this condition was imposed and labelled therapy and judicial guidance as "useless." He claimed that the facts had arisen "after a misunderstanding" and that it was an "accident." Previously, the person concerned and his partner were accompanied by CO3. This guidance was completed after stabilisation of the situation. The judicial assistant reported this attitude to the Probation Commission and the Public Prosecutor via a report dated 14 June 2019. The file of the person concerned was discussed at the Probation Committee on 22 August. It was decided that the justice assistant would continue to urge him to follow aggression therapy. On 30 August 2019 he was invited to the course "Dader-In-Zicht" and was placed on the waiting list. On 16 June an intake interview took place, after delay due to covid, and guidance was started. On 7 January this guidance was completed and there was a three-conversation between the person concerned, the judicial assistant and the supervisor of Dader-In-Zicht. It was considered that the person concerned had gained sufficient insights into himself, his life course, his role as a father, his values and his networks, and about victimisation. Compliance with any guidelines of the juvenile court or family court: there were no directives. No restraining order was imposed. The contacts were limited to texting about the children. To sum up, the information we have now stated that the probationary period has so far been favourable, with a positive evolution towards attitude and understanding of standards. There was no mention at any time of problems similar to those contained in the title. On the basis of the law of 5 May 2014, a judge of judgment would generally be able to conduct a psychiatric expert examination, should the judge consider that the accused is in a situation as referred to in Article 9 of the law. However, the accused may opt not to cooperate in such an ordered expert investigation without prejudice to his or her rights under Article 6 of the ECHR. So much for my answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It shows that there is still room for improvement. Those specific files that I'm always harassing you with, they're a pain in the ass. It's our duty to fix those files. We see here that a psychiatric investigation cannot be enforced. The law says it should be possible, but it shouldn't be. Perhaps such an investigation could have exposed a number of cases. He says that it was a misunderstanding, but when I read the cases that the court cites, it was horrific partner violence and we see that the facts have been repeated on 14 June. Hence my question, can we not make a change so that in such cases a psychiatric investigation can be enforced by a court of law? That seems very important to me in order to be able to better remedy these kinds of events.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u30	Minister, a new study by Ghent University shows that eight out of ten women and almost half of all men in Belgium have experienced sexual violence in their lives. This study is different from the other studies and is more representative because the question was asked much more widely. Not only was the question of rape or sexual abuse investigated, but the question has really been raised of concrete sexual acts against one's will. From the study it emerged that a very large majority simply never reported or even talked to anyone about it. This is very problematic and affects one in three women and half of the male victims. The researchers state that there is work to be done to make the theme more discussable. The researchers raise a number of questions such as what can be done for people who come out much later with their stories or yet, where victims can end up when the violence is not of a recent date. Minister, what initiatives will you take to ensure that these files are given absolute priority so that the victims do not have to wait for years again? What initiatives will you take to increase the willingness to report?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u31	Minister, sexual violence is a subject that is often addressed in this committee and that you and your cabinet follow closely. With reason, because it is a devastating problem that is difficult to map. Hence the recent research of Ghent University is important. It shows once again the enormous scale of the problem. The results are indeed disturbing. 5% of men questioned and 16% of women reported ever being raped. As much as 80% of the lgbtq community was exposed to some form of sexual violence. Only 7% were looking for professional help and only 4% reported the victimisation to the police. Much is now happening, all kinds of steps are being taken in the right direction. You're communicating about that. Nevertheless, it remains a shock to see such figures. Will the results of the research be taken into account in the various policy initiatives you are working on? How has the declaration readiness evolved over the last five years? According to the researchers, the low figure has a lot to do with the lengthy judicial procedure and insufficient information for victims. I'm sure you'd like to bet on this. Can you confirm what initiatives are coming up? The number of care centres for sexual violence is being increased. I assume that the recommendations of the investigation will be taken into account in their internal functioning.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u32	I shall begin with your questions, Mrs Bury. The fight against sexual violence was explicitly included in the coalition agreement and in my policy statement. It is important to point out that it is a problem that requires a common approach, where I also work well together with all the partners involved, Cabinets and also Länder ministers in this area. First of all, there is the national action plan to combat gender-based violence, which is at a final stage and which we will soon be able to present to you the concrete action points. As has already been pointed out a number of times, but therefore no less important to stress again, we have paid particular attention to the theme of sexual crimes in the new sexual criminal law. The authorisation margin is defined by law and the penalty is increased considerably. The new sexual criminal law will be filed very soon in the Justice Commission. We must also note that time no longer covers all traces and that today's society no longer forgets quickly. That is positive news in the fight against sexual violence. The latest modern techniques for evidence, audio and visual recording, such as photo, film, video, and DNA, reduce the negative influence of time on the evidence. Between the time when the crime was committed and the victim's report, there is often a long term. This has to do with, among other things, the close and/or family ties between victim and suspect. Moreover, it should not be forgotten that children, for example, often need someone else to take the step, a confidant who knows what to do. We try to make the most of modern techniques. The law of 31 July 2020, which obliges all magistrates to follow training on sexual violence, is also a good example of the many actions we take. There's the ViCLAS database. A team, specializing in moral analysis, makes it possible to establish links between different sex cases. The members of this team themselves teach several times a year in police schools, as well as the sex inspectors of the care centres after sexual violence. We're also committed to dealing with perpetrators. For example, work was started on the redevelopment of the cooperation agreements between the Flemish Community and the Federal State on the supervision and treatment of perpetrators of sexual abuse. These will also be launched with the other Communities. Finally, the report also focuses on violence among older people. This must and will be an important point of attention for us. The study teaches us that a confrontation with sexual violence can take place at any age and that sexual violence among the elderly is underexposed. The College of Attorneys General is currently working on a circular on elder abuse. It will be finalised in the short term. Thanks to this study, we will continue to study how we can also ensure that sexual violence is reduced to an absolute minimum. I come to the questions of Mr Gabriels. Of course, we're aware of the investigation. First of all, I would like to sincerely thank Professor Ines Keygnaert and everyone who has participated in the research. The study reiterates the need to make sexual violence a top priority. Concrete figures can help us to map sexual violence even better among all population groups and to expose the pain points. We are already working, you know that. The security monitor is a large-scale population consultation on safety and victimisation. This can help to evaluate the willingness to report. The safety monitor shall be organised for the 10th time by the end of 2021 and shall take place every three years. Citizens are asked whether or not they have been victims of sexual activity in the last 12 months and whether or not they have reported it. In 2018, 2.5% of the citizens questioned indicated that they had been the victims of violence. Young people between 15 and 24 years of age are the most likely victims. It's 5.3% for that group. In terms of gender, women are more likely to be victims of this type of crime than men. The ratio is 3.6% versus 1.3%. At regional level, we find that, especially in the Brussels-Capital Region, people were the victims of violence at least once. This is three times as much as in Flanders or Wallonia. The willingness to report must be increased. Following sexual violence, care centres should be called upon. The necessary structural resources were made available to expand care centres after sexual violence so that there will be a care centre in each province by 2023. A faster declaration could lead to faster prosecution. In this way, we will also ensure that a declaration can be made in the best possible circumstances, taking into account the needs of the victim. Any complaint is meaningful and necessary. A victim must never get the feeling that a report is pointless. We will make the care centers better known to the general public. In fact, the willingness to report to health care centres is increasing by about 65%. A sex inspector comes to the center and the necessary evidence is collected with the consent of the victim in the center. All this benefits the burden of proof. We're more focused on DNA analysis. The stronger the evidence, the less time the investigation or the judicial investigation should run. Mrs Gabriels, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men is represented on the guidance committee of the study. Moreover, Ghent University is involved both in the study and in care centres following sexual violence. Of course, everything is aligned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u33	First of all, Minister, I am always very pleased that you are particularly close to this issue. I notice this every time from your answers, because they are well founded, which shows that work has been done. Still, the next thing has to be my heart. When it comes to the national action plan, to the reform of sexual criminal law and now to the circular on parental abuse, I always hear you use the terms'soon','very soon' and'short term'. For me, that's not concrete enough. The reform of sexual criminal law had announced you against Easter, but it has still not been presented. I would like to know when the draft will be submitted so that we can get on with it. I think it is very positive that you say that time does not erase everything. You have explained a number of concrete tools on this subject, which reassures us. You also say that every declaration will be dealt with, no matter how late it will be filed. In this way, you want to show that the submission of a declaration makes sense. The declaration will have to go upstairs. Perhaps we should also consider how to make it clear to the public that any declaration, whenever it is made, will still be meaningful, and that there are enough concrete tools to be able to track things down or link moral facts to each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed a good thing that the government and yourself pay so much attention to this very important issue and that so many actions and initiatives are being taken. I am confident that we will soon be able to discuss new proposals in this Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u35	Minister, on March 31, 2019 at around 10:30 p.m., Riad, an asylum-seeker of Algerian origin, rides by bicycle on the road from Hannut to Jodoigne, 300 metres from the Fedasil centre where he resides. Visibility is good, the road is straight, and Riad is equipped with a fluo vest. Kevin is driving his vehicle and driving at an estimated speed of 110 to 125 km/h, but the speed on the road is limited to 70 km/h, and he hits Riad full whip, then drags him for several tens of meters. It appears from the investigation that Riad was visible from 150 to 200 meters, he had lit the headlight of his bike. There is no indication of any sign of braking. Kevin fled, leaving Riad to his fate. Worse still, there's a text exchange between Kevin and his girlfriend. She asks him, "Did you get an Arab?", What Kevin answers with a series of "dead-of-laugh" emoticons. An hour later, he added: "I'm afraid, I may have killed a Belgian" or "I really hope he's an Arabic because I'm mad at myself all my life". Despite these facts, the Crown Prosecutor's Office is prosecuting Kevin for manslaughter and demanding an 18-month prison sentence, as well as a fine and two-year licence waiver. This is not the judgment, which we are still waiting for, but what is being asked of the judge by the prosecutor. The latter is part of the executive power, and is therefore under your authority. So how do you explain the prosecutor's decision to prosecute for manslaughter in this case? What are your criminal policy guidelines in this area? Do you think they should be adapted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u36	Mr Boukili, by saying that the prosecutor's request is part of the executive power and is therefore under my authority, you are mistaken. Article 151 of our Constitution provides that a magistrate, including a judge of the Public Prosecutor's Office, is independent in the case of an individual case. Under no circumstances do I have the right to rule on an individual case and I have no intention of doing so knowing that no verdict has yet been reached. I will take even less action on what a Attorney General has asked for. I do not know this case and, moreover, if I were to rule on an individual case, I would question the constitutional independence of the magistrate. I'm not sure what federal policy directive you're referring to. With regard to racism and discrimination, you know the position of this government and my position as Minister of Justice. What happened to the victim is horrible and, out of respect for her but also out of respect for the work of the police and the work of justice, I think that in this case, it is better to wait for the verdict of the judge in complete serenity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u37	Minister, you are using section 151 to clear your liability. I will therefore quote part of this article which you have not mentioned: "The Public Prosecutor's Office is independent in the conduct of individual investigations and prosecutions without prejudice to the right of the competent minister to order prosecution and to issue binding directives for criminal prosecution, including in the field of research and prosecution policy". If you are quoting section 151, it would be good if you were quoting it completely. You have a constitutional right at this level! The case is special in this case, but you, as a minister, can order prosecution orders, as you did, for example, for the covid. You set guidelines. But here, in terms of murder on grounds of racism, which is clearly the case in this case, you can also give guidelines. Don't hide behind article 151 because this same article gives you that right! My question was, "Will you use it?" Apparently, no! You do it for the covid, but not for the rest! Minister, this is disappointing. As far as my second question is concerned, this is the directive on racist acts, as would be the case for gender-based acts or acts of violence against women. You're issuing directives. I wanted to know what directives were issued for racist acts? Is there zero tolerance or not? How is it that, along with the evidence available, the prosecutor's office prosecutes manslaughter and requests 18 months in prison? I ask you whether you have a clear directive on the subject. Apparently, that's not the case and it's really serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u38	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Segers' 55019216C was postponed to the next sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u39	Dear colleague, from 2017 to 2020, we have seen a sharp decrease in the number of participations in the professional competence examination of magistrates. In response to this trend, the Supreme Council of Justice conducted a survey of 500 lawyers in 2018. The survey found that lawyers show a strong interest in the judiciary. Lawyers claim that the intellectual aspect and the important social role of the magistrate always make the profession attractive. They often have a strong preference for the judiciary of the seat. Unfortunately, the investigation also revealed that the justice system suffers from a negative image, in particular the environment, working conditions and numerous reforms of the judicial organization that deter many lawyers from joining the judiciary. Fortunately, there is also good news. Since 2021, we have again seen an increase in the number of participants in the professional aptitude examinations and also in the examinations for judicial trainees. I can only conclude from this that the positive initiatives and projects that I am trying to put forward in the communication as well as the additional resources that the government has made available for justice – an additional EUR 500 million by 2024 – have a positive effect on the attractiveness of the profession of magistrate. With regard to your second question, over the next few years we will rely on several pillars. We will simplify the selection procedures and shorten their deadlines. The aim is not to compromise on quality, but rather to bring the different stages of the procedure closer together. In collaboration with the Consultative Council of the Judiciary, we are also preparing a social status for magistrates. It should provide greater legal certainty for judges with regard to leave arrangements. The lack of social status discourages the young generation of lawyers and lawyers from entering the judiciary. Finally, we will work to improve the working conditions of judges. In the coming years, we will take important steps in the field of digitisation. We are also committed to a better distribution of the workload and plan to support the judiciary by recruiting lawyers, criminologists, clerks and secretaries. I refer to the figures I mentioned last week. With regard to your third question, the procedure for the selection of judges is carried out through the Higher Council of Justice and not by the Selor. Therefore, there is no link between the Selor and the YSC. With the additional resources granted to the judiciary, we recruit not only judges but also a large number of supporting judicial collaborators. These selection procedures are carried out through the Selor. That is why we will temporarily strengthen the Selor with seven profiles. These will be determined by the Selor, but will be HR profiles specialized in recruitment. These individuals will be used to set up and organize the examinations as well as to conduct the selection interviews. In addition, we will strengthen the FPS Justice personnel service by providing for an additional 20 people, which is not negligible, I think. With regard to your fourth question, 120 posts are currently vacant in courts and tribunals and 44 are vacant in the Public Prosecutor's Office. This means that we are currently looking for more than 160 judges for whom a selection procedure is under way. Some of these vacancies are used to replace departures, but in many cases they are also new positions. With regard to the situation of managers at the staffing level of 1 June this year, I can tell you that the framework of the Court of Cassation is 100 per cent filled, the framework of courts and tribunals is 91 per cent filled, the framework of the Public Prosecutor's Office is 88 per cent filled. On your fifth and final question, in order to be able to recruit as many people as possible before the end of 2021, concrete agreements have been concluded with the Supreme Council of Justice. A very tight timetable has been agreed, which will allow us to appoint magistrates before the end of the year. There is no specific schedule, but there is no doubt that the publication of vacancies will be aligned with the YSC reviews. The results of the vocational examination are expected at the beginning of October. Some vacant posts had already been issued in May, but the first major publication of those additional posts was scheduled for 18 June. In order to maximize the number of candidates for these vacancies, candidates who pass the current Professional Skills Examination who do not yet know their final result will already be able to apply for these vacancies, which is new. If they fail to pass the examination, their application will obviously be considered inadmissible. This will allow us to save a few precious months, Mr Goffin, in the recruitment process and to ensure that the additional judges scheduled for 2021 can actually take up their duties this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your very concrete answers. Indeed, we will be very attentive to developments related to your voluntarism in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u41	Mr Goffin, first of all, should additional places be provided, whether in prison or in detention facilities where overcrowding persists? As I have already had the opportunity to point out, this change will only exacerbate this phenomenon. In addition, provision should also be made for infrastructure, staff, etc. Then, in collaboration with the Régie des Bâtiments, DG EPI is currently examining potential sites with a view to assessing their suitability for needs. The objective is also to establish the number of places required per stage and to distribute them geographically across all provinces. An action plan is also being developed to identify the quickest possible avenues, as two detention centres are still to be opened in the short term. In this regard, preparatory work is ongoing, including the development of a staff plan for these houses. In addition, the short sentences provisions of the 2006 Act will come into force gradually. At the same time, those convicted before its entry into force will always be able to benefit from the application of the old procedure. The two procedures will therefore coexist for a period of time. Moreover, since detention centres will be opened in phases, it is also logical that not all regions have a facility where those sentenced to short sentences will have to be detained. Both of these considerations have the effect that capacity will not be immediately sufficient, so that the above-mentioned will be incarcerated in conventional prisons. Finally, account must be taken of the inability of some convicted persons to live in such houses, either because their danger is too high or because they will not be able to cope with the more flexible living conditions of these establishments. As you can see, it is currently difficult to decide on the distribution of the approximately 720 inmates that the prison administration's estimates consider as an additional population. I can also add that at this time, some prisoners sentenced to less than three years' imprisonment are staying in conventional prisons, i.e. those who are excluded from electronic surveillance according to the circular. I am thinking in particular of the perpetrators of terrorist acts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the procedure is rather cumbersome. Basically, two elements explain this heaviness. First of all, a sorting process is needed in order to manage the large number of people involved. It should be noted that there were 4,000 candidates per language role in the previous procedure. The conduct of selection interviews takes a long time. In order to limit this exercise to the maximum, intermediate rounds are necessary to guarantee the quality of the winners who end up in the recruitment reserve. To this end, the State Security has appealed to the Selor. Thanks to the task force which monitors the collaboration with the Selor, possible problems can be solved and the procedure takes place in the best possible conditions. Selor also provides a comprehensive platform for administrative monitoring of registrations, ensures quality control, offers training courses and provides support in appeal procedures. Without the Selor, the internal recruitment service of the State Security should be seriously expanded, bearing in mind that these professionals are difficult to find. Flexibility and simplification of the legal framework, as already proposed by the Selor, could also facilitate the process. As part of the work to create a new statute, we are looking at the possibility of providing, for example, an emergency procedure for the recruitment of additional staff in the event of a crisis. A second element is that every winner must have a security clearance classified as "very secret". These security clearances also take some time. The State Security is doing its best to limit the duration of such investigations, but cannot afford to work in haste. To answer your second question, the additional cost is mainly due to the hours worked by men or women both in the recruitment team and in the support activities of the Selor, which varies according to the procedure. I have requested that we proceed with the calculation that will be communicated to you. I come to your third question. In order to better meet the requirements of profiles specific to the needs of the information and to achieve greater efficiency in the selection procedures, the Sûreté de l'Etat, in consultation with the Selor, has already developed a battery of suitable tests. The role of inspector, for example, requires certain qualities specific to the functioning of personnel and the expertise of an intelligence service.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u44	Foreign service inspectors are therefore distinct from federal government officials. They enjoy a special status. The Sûreté de l'Etat is also involved in a new project of the Selor, carried out in collaboration with an external sharing, with the aim of developing new psychotechnical tests better adapted. All candidates first pass a generic test; this generic test, not to be confused with Selor's standard generic screening, evaluates the abstract and verbal reasoning abilities on the one hand, and the generic skills considered essential for the function on the other. These are basic attitudes, essential for starting in an operational service, which are difficult to develop. Without going into detail, it is a matter of correctly reproducing information to which we are briefly exposed, or analyzing specific and unknown data files. Candidates who pass this generic test are placed on a recruitment reserve list that is consulted by the State Security to recruit more specific profiles. Let me turn to your fourth and final question. Function-specific tests are developed by State Security specialists with the methodological support of the Selor. In addition, the State Security has a number of staff certified by Selor. Such a screening specific to a function takes place in two phases. All interested candidates, on the list of successful candidates, may participate in the first phase, which consists of a computerised test to assess certain generic and technical skills. Successful candidates move to Phase 2, the oral part before a jury. During this phase, in addition to the interview, a test is also organised. It is as close as possible to practice. For example, future data officers are presented with a mini-survey in which, on the basis of a large amount of data collected, they have to answer a number of questions in the context of a fictitious scenario that is close to reality. Case officers who have to deal with human sources participate in a role play in which their ability to establish relationships and obtain information is tested. These simulation tests meet a dual objective. The first is to assess the candidate's ability to specialize, and the second is to give the candidate a more realistic picture of the specific specialization in intelligence work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u45	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u46	Mr Goffin, with regard to the increase in speed violations to which you refer in your question, I would like to point out that this is above all a reflection of the findings made by the police. The short period of time allowed to answer your questions does not allow for quantitative checks, but the installation of new radars in 2020 is certainly not unrelated to this increase in the number of minutes. You say: "It seems that a significant number of the excess speeds observed are serious, i.e. that the excess exceeds 30 km/h. It is reported, notably by the press, that 93 per cent of the offences found are subject to automated recovery through the police services. Only a small percentage would therefore be passed on to the competent prosecutor's office, and even a smaller percentage would be prosecuted before the courts." In fact, my colleague, the offences to which you refer are those which are automated, i.e. the speed exceedances of less than 30 km/h in agglomeration and less than 40 km/h outside of agglomeration, zone 30 or residential area, for which an immediate perception is sent. Other infringements, above these thresholds, are more serious, are not immediately perceived and must be pursued as a matter of priority. They do not receive automated processing and require more administrative work, since the offender must be summoned to appear in order to require the revocation of the driver's licence. When the radar is kept on continuously, the number of findings of serious speed violations tends to increase, which is an overload of work for prosecutors and courts. In particular, I had the opportunity to set out the history of the genesis of the quota system in response to a question from Mrs Buyst at the committee on 2 June. On this occasion, I indicated that quotas and other limitations, such as margins of tolerance on radars, far from a trivialisation of road traffic offences, are solely aimed at ensuring the effectiveness of the prosecution. It should be avoided that offences found by the police should be closed without further action because of a lack of capacity to process cases at the level of prosecutors and courts. With regard to your first question, I would point out that the digitisation of the road fines procedure through the Crossborder project has enabled police, justice and finance to achieve enormous efficiency gains. Since the introduction of the payment order, the workload of our courts has decreased significantly as unpaid fines can now be issued with an enforceable title through the payment order. It is necessary to increase the chances of getting caught by activating the various journey controls as quickly as possible and by removing the quotas. We proceed in a step-by-step but thoughtful manner, in the interest of road safety. It is unacceptable that in Brussels, for example, fines for zones 30 only start from 47 km/h outside the technical margin. I stress that I want to keep the technical margins. That is why we are investing in justice, the Crossborder project and the treatment centres, which will be strengthened. With regard to your second and third questions, in the area of road safety, we have provided additional resources to strengthen the Public Prosecutor's Office as well as the courts and tribunals (75 additional persons by the year 2022). In addition, the Crossborder programme has also provided for additional resources to further digitize the various aspects of the implementation of financial sanctions in the context of taxiing. An additional 45 persons are provided to increase the processing capacity of traffic fines. Thus, we are talking about both additional judges and administrative staff. Similarly, margins of tolerance and quotas for road fines will disappear. We are indeed talking about an additional capacity in the short term because we have already foreseen some of these resources for this year. It is in close cooperation with the Public Prosecutor's Office that we undertake the various actions necessary to increase the processing capacity of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I assure you that we have well planned the means of our policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u48	Mr Minister, on Monday 13 June 2021, the East Flemish prosecutor of the King was sentenced by the court of appeal to four months' imprisonment with delay. The person concerned has previously been sentenced to six months' suspension in respect of those facts, of which three months have been postponed. I have the following questions. How do you see the future of that King's Attorney, assuming that the judgment will be final? Can the person concerned still be at the head of one of the largest public prosecutors in this country? Do you see any other avenues for the person concerned? Why, for example, as a measure of order, was no suspension given in the interest of the service and in the interest of justice, in order to be able to deal with the disciplinary action later, especially given the short period between the disciplinary measure imposed and the criminal judgment? There is therefore already a disciplinary decision prior to the judgment. Is the fact that disciplinary action has already been decided before a judgment has been given on the criminal proceedings, the normal course of action? Isn't that particularly strange, as it concerns one of the most essential functions within the magistrate? Will the principle of non bis in idem, through the chosen approach, not prevent proper disciplinary treatment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u49	Madam President, Minister, I agree with Mr Segers' question and refer to my written question for what was not in his question but in mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I answer the questions grouped together. You know my mantra that it's hard for me to comment on an individual case. In all serenity, I think I can say that this case may be an illustration of the fact that the Justice Department takes such facts seriously by prosecuting the prosecutor, both disciplinary and criminal. I hope that the fact that a verdict has now been reached will be as important a signal as any possible victims. However, some reservations remain as the judgment has not yet become res judicata. The condemned person still has the opportunity to file a cassation appeal, as it should be under the rule of law. That is why, in my replies today, I have to stay somewhat on the plain. I hope you will understand that. You will also understand that, for my part, it is not a weakness offer, nor is it an attempt to minimize the facts. As Minister of Justice, I am the employer of the person in question. As an employer, I think I can say the following. Asking whether a person after such a conviction, should she be in force of res judicata, still has the moral authority to perform such a socially important public function, may answer them. It is a question of moral authority both internally with regard to the corps and externally with regard to the population. In legal terms, too, that reasoning seems to go along with it. The person concerned does not fulfil the conditions required under Article 287d of the Code of Justice to take up and take up the office of the King's Attorney. According to the article of the Court's Rules of Procedure, one must, and I quote, 'behaviour which is in accordance with the requirements of the intended relationship'. Compliance with the conditions of conduct must be proved, and I quote: 'by means of an extract from the criminal record showing that the candidate was not convicted, even with delay, in the event of a final sentence to any correctional or criminal penalty, unless he or she has been recovered in honour and rights'. That it would be possible for the person concerned to pursue the duties of the King's Attorney after such a serious conviction during the performance of his duties, while he would not be entitled to take up the post with such a conviction, could be described as an anomaly in the legislation, with the nuance that the legislator has provided for disciplinary sanctions which could lead to the same result, such as the removal or withdrawal of the mandate referred to in Article 58a of the Court's Code, dismissal of duties and dismissal from office or dismissal as provided for in Article 405 of the Court's Code. As far as disciplinary proceedings are concerned, the prosecution confirms to me that it is not exceptional that the Disciplinary Court does not wait for a final ruling from the criminal court, given the different finalities of disciplinary and criminal law and the fact that criminal proceedings in our country can sometimes drag on for a long time. Disciplinary law is, after all, one of the different systems of criminal law. The difference between the condition of a person who is the subject of criminal proceedings and that of a person who is the subject of disciplinary proceedings is based on an objective criterion. I refer to a ruling of the Constitutional Court of 8 May 2001. In the present case, the Disciplinary Court considered that it was not possible to take a waiting attitude and the disciplinary action was brought in the interests of the public service. Consequently, because of the disciplinary court, the person concerned was given a disciplinary suspension on grounds of cross-border conduct affecting the dignity of his or her duties, to be distinguished from the criminally sanctioned infringements of Article 32a of the Law of 4 August 1996 on the welfare of workers in the performance of their duties and from Articles 373, 377 and 378 of the Criminal Code relating to the sexual assault of dignity in an authority relationship. Your questions as to whether the person concerned can still return as the King's Attorney are therefore justified. I'll sum up. The conviction has not yet been given the force of res judicata, so some caution is needed in my answers. If an employer asks whether a person after such a conviction, should she take res judicata, still has the moral authority to perform such a socially important function, she may answer. We are now considering in all discretion how we can translate that for the person concerned in spite of the anomaly mentioned in the law. It is not logical that a correctional sentence would make it impossible to take up the office of the King's Attorney, while the same sentence would allow the office to continue. I am considering whether the legislation in this area should not be amended.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer, as always. I understand that you want to stay on the level of the facts. I will read your answer again, because I have not heard everything very well, in all honesty. I have heard you talk about the anomaly that we also noticed, and it is good that we will take an initiative on this. We are thinking about that further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I want to separate the issue from the specific issue. It is a question that needs to be asked in general. I hope that this will not happen too often, but we will need a solution. So I look forward to the correct interpretation of the article you quoted, whether it can indeed be applied and looked at. It is certainly an interesting case, especially because if I continue with what you said at first, it is important that a signal is given and the conviction itself is already a signal. So I fear that, if this were not to happen, the signal would be wiped out. It is an interesting issue, an ethical one. It's something to think about in our society and it's quite a challenge. We are going to follow it further because I am curious as to what content this dossier will eventually know and, above all, to see how we can resolve such issues in the future, that is the essence for me. After all, such facts can one day happen again, so we must ensure that there is no anomaly in the law anymore. We must therefore provide a solution to this problem, and we must learn lessons from this case in order to meet it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u53	Mr Dallemagne is not present for the time being for his question No. 55019230C. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Depraetere's 55019245C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u54	Mrs De Wit, the new draft of the Criminal Code proposed by the Commission to replace the penal law contains a new chapter in future book 2, namely crimes against the corpse and the funeral. In the new chapter, we add a new criminal provision, namely desecration. Desecration is described as the impairment of the integrity of a corpse with the aim of insulting or hurting the memory of the deceased. This provision makes it possible to prosecute and punish the photographing and filming of a corpse in which the memory of a deceased is harmed. Moreover, the existing grave desecration crime is described more precisely and more clearly, namely by including definitions proposed in the doctrine and case law. Finally, the draft Code also includes the aggravating circumstance because of a discriminatory motive. I agree with you that we need to move forward, but we also need to do it properly and coherently. As the draft Criminal Code will reform all provisions on crime against corpses and graves, I therefore believe that it is better to do so as a whole. In the draft Code, the provision in your second question is punishable by a level 2 penalty. This means that, in addition to alternative penalties such as probation or electronic surveillance, an effective prison sentence of up to 6 months can be imposed up to a maximum of 3 years. This penalty is justified because the acts covered by this provision are particularly damaging to society and constitute an infringement of the right to privacy and portrait law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u55	Mr. Secretary, I've seen your communication. You also know that in this Chamber a proposal from the N-VA Group has been pending for a long time to make that criminal. It could be faster. The proposal could be put to the vote next week, so to speak. Then there's a solution. An investigation has now begun, but there must be a detour to the right of image and the like. That's a delicate exercise. It is not insignificant in the period of time that the digital world is moving fast and images are being distributed very quickly, to act quickly. I am therefore very sorry that you wish to wait for the new Criminal Code, while our proposal is ready to vote in the Chamber. I now understand what kind of punishment you want to commit to it. When I heard you on Radio 1 yesterday, it wasn't quite clear. Madam President, perhaps we should include this in the priorities of our committee. We are not yet ready for the new Criminal Code, which is for the beginning of next year. We're losing time. This is a simple matter on which we do not waste any time and which does not require any substantial adjustments, I believe. This could easily be done, and it is a great pity that you do not wish to go into this, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u56	Madam President, Mr Segers, the Voogdij Department is not responsible for the reception of unaccompanied minors. The guardianship law instructs the Voogdij Service to contact the competent reception authorities when an unaccompanied minor is found, but the service is therefore not competent for the reception itself. The Voogdij service first sought shelter at Esperanto, Suriya and Minor-Ndako during the second interception, but there was not enough room to accommodate six people. These places are managed by the Communities. The offer seems to be insufficient. Afterwards, the plan B was contacted with Fedasil, who was willing to take care of these young people. At federal level, no shelters are created for minor victims of heavy human trafficking and trafficking in human beings. It should be stressed that the reception and protection of these minor victims fall within the competence of the Communities. While in Flanders there is sometimes a problem with the reception of minors who are victims of trafficking in human beings or smuggling with aggravating conditions, the Esperanto Centre was established in Wallonia. For the adult victims of trafficking we work with the specialised centers Payoke, Suriya and Pagase. We have good contacts with these centres and we work well together. I am always willing to put my shoulders on a more structural solution from the expertise and commitment of these centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u57	Minister, I am well aware that the Voogdij Department is not competent for the reception of unaccompanied minors and that the distribution of competences in this area is very complex and you cannot decide on your own. The way things are going, however, it does not work. We all know that when such persons are placed in an OOC, they almost certainly disappear immediately. We also know which system works better, namely the protected shelter such as Esperanto. There are no guarantees there either, but results are being achieved. On the Flemish side there is a great fragmentation, which has led to a huge tangle. Hardly anyone knows how many minor victims of trafficking are being accompanied and what follow-up is being given. Everyone seems to agree that there is a need for a Flemish centre with a concept such as that of Esperanto, with sheltered guidance, but also centralized, with opportunities for far-reaching specialisation for victims of trafficking in human beings. There's definitely an interest in it. I therefore call on you, Minister, to seize this interest and take the initiative to set up such a Flemish centre, based on Esperanto, from your powers for specialised centres for victims of trafficking in human beings. There's got to be something possible, right? In any case, the figures show that there is a need for it and I know that you are in favour of it. I therefore hope that you will make the most of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u58	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 55019261C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u59	Mrs De Wit, on 7 May the Council of Ministers adopted the so-called preliminary draft law on data retention. After approval by the Council of Ministers, the preliminary draft has obviously still to be submitted to a number of advisory bodies, including the Data Protection Authority and the Council of State. Despite the urgency of the draft you have mentioned, we must give these authorities time to analyse and study the complex preliminary draft law. In the meantime, we received some advice, and we are still waiting for a number of others. The opinion of the Council of State is expected at the end of the month, the opinion of the GBA is foreseen for early July. These opinions will, of course, have to be analysed and, if necessary, the preliminary draft law will have to be amended. The BIPT also organised a four-week public consultation on the preliminary draft, the results of which are currently being studied. For us, the draft law will be submitted after a second reading in the Chamber in this committee, or perhaps in the Committee on Infrastructure, on BIPT legislation. Possibly in the two. I agree with you that the law destroyed by the Constitutional Court must be repaired as soon as possible. I repeat that, immediately after the judgment of the Court of Justice last year, the relevant public administrations of Justice, Defence, Telecom and Home Affairs worked on a solution that reconciles the challenges of privacy and security within the margins of the Court's ruling. Of course, we also had to wait for the decision of our Constitutional Court to finalise the text. That has happened effectively. This work resulted in the preliminary draft law which we adopted at the beginning of May. Once we've received all the advice, we can move on. Mr De Wit, we are the first country to come up with a draft legal solution. In the meantime, I have received the Danish and Swedish colleagues because they are interested in our solutions. As regards your third question, I would first like to point out that the judgment of the Constitutional Court will have effect from its publication in the Belgian Official Journal. That hasn't happened yet. Pending publication, the current legislation will continue to apply. Secondly, the Constitutional Court explicitly leaves the implications for ongoing investigations to the appreciation of the criminal court in each individual case. The Court refers to the so-called Antigon law which states that an unlawful evidence element should be excluded only if the evidence is unreliable, is a violation of the right to a fair trial or if the fundamental formal requirements were not respected. I'm sure you're aware of the Anti-Gonna trial. Finally, it is wrong to say that criminal investigations no longer allow mobile data to be used. Articles 46a and 88a of the Code of Criminal Procedure shall continue to apply in full even after the destruction of the Data Retention Act. The competent judicial authorities may, on the basis of these articles, request identity data as well as traffic and location data from operators. Operators shall cooperate and communicate such information, if available to them. The main consequence of the destruction of the data retention law is that some of these data may no longer be available.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u60	Thank you for your reply, Minister. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u61	Madam President, I refer to the question tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u62	Mr Van Hecke, your question is justified. Caution should be exercised. Unfortunately, in a number of mediatised cases, we have found that Russia is not always close to human rights. Your first question is a question of figures, which should mainly come from the Foreign Office and which I do not yet have at my disposal. From the data I obtained from the FPS Foreign Affairs Department, it certainly shows the following. There were no requests from the person concerned, his or her counselor, an NGO or any other body to carry out a check on prison conditions in Russia. When I have all the details, I will deliver them to you in writing. For some of the sub-questions I should also refer to Foreign Affairs, but I will indicate that. Firstly, in reply to your first question 1a, b, c and d, I can state that the criteria for assessing compliance with the guarantees given are, logically, no other criteria than those applied, in particular, by the European Court of Human Rights, to the evaluation of a risk of a breach of fundamental rights. The consistent case-law relating to extradition or expulsion of the European Court requires the complainant to support his or her allegations of the existence of an alleged risk of a breach of Article 3 of the ECHR. A potential breach of Article 3 of the ECHR requires minimal seriousness. A potential infringement can only be established if there is a serious risk of infringement. I would like to quote from the 1989 Court of Justice's Soering judgment and quote from an Irish case against the UK in 1978. "To fall under Article 3, ill-treatment must reach a minimum of seriousness. The assessment of this minimum is in essence relative; it depends on all the data of the cause, in particular on the duration of the treatment and its physical or mental effects, as well as, in some cases, on the sex, age, state of health of the victim." The following second quotation comes from the judgment of the European Court of Justice in a case brought by Ireland against the UK in 1978. "In order for a sentence or the treatment it entails to be "inhuman" or "degradant", suffering or humiliation must in any case go beyond those inevitably involved in a given form of legitimate punishment." While general information from NGOs' reports on the human rights situation in Russia should be included in the evaluation, it is not enough in itself to conclude that there is a serious risk of a violation of fundamental rights. After all, the evaluation must be carried out in concrete terms and must be based on elements relating to the person's situation. The Zarmaev judgment is the first judgment of the European Court of Justice concerning the extradition by Belgium of a Russian national of Chechen origin to Russia, essentially alleging an alleged infringement of Article 3 of the ECHR. The key question in the assessment was the quality of the diplomatic guarantees strengthened by Russia. At that time, the Court found no infringement of Article 3 of the ECHR. The Court has now confirmed the above decisions in a judgment. Firstly, as has already been pointed out in other judgments, there could indeed be an extradition by means of diplomatic guarantees if there was a risk of a breach of Article 3. Secondly, the Russian guarantees in this respect pass the test of specificity and reliability, as developed by the court cas par cas. The diplomatic evaluation, e.g. of prison conditions in the requesting state, is an important element in evaluating, in a broader sense, cooperation, also in areas other than justice, and if necessary, reviewing. Secondly, the possible control of guarantees abroad, as indicated in the previous reply, is a task of the Foreign Affairs Office and the diplomatic world. It goes without saying that diplomacy should inform itself on the dossier and take note of all the relevant information that is involved in the specific case. As in all matters, the FPS Foreign Affairs depends on the input of the trade ministers, in this case Justice. Thirdly, that happens, but not for every case. Several European fora allow regular discussions on all elements of extradition, including the application of fundamental rights. At European level, it is certainly possible to strengthen dialogue and exchange of experience and expertise, not just with regard to the Russian Federation. In this context, it should be pointed out that foreign justice, for example the Swiss, can be valuable. However, a foreign dossier cannot simply be compared with a case in Belgium, for example. Each request for extradition and the subsequent extradition procedure shall have specific factual and legal characteristics. It is also important to know the whole story. It is not known to me on the basis of which factual and/or legal considerations the Swiss court or court ruled and whether there was a deliberate judgment or final decision in that particular case, which I am not aware of either. Fourthly, this depends on the specific dossier. If the requested person agrees to his or her extradition, the procedure is obviously shorter and the ministerial decision may follow immediately after the judicial extradition file has been dispatched. In these cases, the advisory procedure lapses. In other cases, account should also be taken, firstly, of ongoing or new asylum procedures, secondly, of the existence of possible persecution and/or execution in Belgium on account of other facts, thirdly, of new procedures initiated in the context of extradition, i.e. after the advisory procedure has been completed, such as a short-term or a complaint to the ECHR, and/or, fourthly, of new elements and/or documents which the defence provides to me or my administration after the advisory procedure. The latter is a growing trend. On your fifth question, on average, the effective extradition takes place within the month after the extradition decision has been served. Here too, several factors play a role. I refer to the elements given in the answer to the previous questions. In addition, there is, of course, the possibility of an urgent request for suspension and cancellation to the Council of State. The continuing restriction due to COOVID-19 also has an impact, as there are much fewer flights available. On your sub-question a, in accordance with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and in accordance with the basic obligation under the applicable extradition treaty, the detention of the claimed person will continue until the extradition is effective. The extradition detention is based on the key criterion of the flight risk. The legal nature of extradition is based on the fact that a suspect or a convicted person has fled to another country. It goes without saying that, in accordance with the extradition law and Article 5.1f and Article 5.4 of the ECHR, the person claimed may at any time submit one or more requests for provisional release to the Board Chamber. It is then up to the Board Chamber or the AI in a degree of appeal to judge the extradition detention. Then I come to your last question part b. As the previous answer shows, the person remains basically locked up in the penitentiary facility. In so far as there are sufficient concrete elements which would eliminate or mitigate the risk of flight, the competent judicial authority may order the release, usually subject to conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic525x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. As you said in your introduction, I think it is a serious problem that we, as the rule of law, should be careful about. I realise that you will get some information from the Foreign Office, which is difficult to do in a short period of time. I understood from your answer that there would be no questions of detainees in Russia to carry out such checks. May I conclude from this that it is not automatic, but that conditions are actually checked only when the prisoner himself asks for them. But how can a Russian inmate somewhere in northern Siberia contact our embassy in Moscow to ask to check the detention conditions there? So I hope that the Foreign Office will give us some more information on that. I also hope that once in a while a check will be carried out on its own initiative and that the question will not always be asked explicitly, which I think is perhaps a very difficult one in reality. In any case, I am very concerned about the situation in Russia. There is the judgment of the Swiss court, which is an important signal, although we do not fully know the specific case. We must also note that lawyers who have some experience of the problem are also very concerned. Moreover, the situation in Russia has changed compared to ten years ago. So we have to be careful and think twice before making such decisions. If proper treatment is not guaranteed at 100%, then we should consider stopping extraditing. As a rule of law, we must act in accordance with human rights. That is not clear at international level, but perhaps Belgium should become a precursor, as we were right to do yesterday at European level when it came to fundamental human rights.
