ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I will not be too detailed about the facts, because they are well known and were in the newspaper. In retrospect, I noticed that the press release and the accompanying report had been online for some time. On 14 May, De Tijd reported that a police area in East Flanders illegally bugged the confidential consultation of lawyers and their clients. In the room where confidential conversations took place, a surveillance camera permanently filmed, recorded the sound and sent it to the police detectives' room. This practice was discovered by the Control Body on Police Information (COC). The parquet of East Flanders is investigating the case. I'll come straight to my questions. The chief of police confirmed that the settings of the video footage weren't correct. According to him, that does not mean that there was effective listening to conversations. Of course not only listening in is problematic, but also the fact that random passers-by could easily watch in the cells and interrogation rooms. It is also worrying that no one in the Corps apparently asked questions about the possibility of watching and listening to conversations with lawyers. That can be called disturbing. This was also said by the lawyer and director at the Order of Flemish Baries, Mr Erik Schellingen. Do you consider that the Salduz rules, including the absolute confidentiality of the counsel-client consultation, are well-known to the corps? If no one in the entire force has fallen the franc, how come? What is happening to promote this knowledge? What will you do to ensure, in the short term, that these unacceptable abuses do not occur in other areas and that they do not occur? The COC board stated that this does not have the capacity to control these practices in all police areas. Do you agree? What will you do to increase controls so that control can be adequate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u2	Madam Secretary, I do not need to add much more to this. Mr Segers has outlined the situation well. It is a flagrant infringement on this issue, and everyone agrees that, fortunately, it has been established in a specific, specific police area. We all hope that this is not a slap in the face in other police areas. Our group has also put a question to the Minister of Justice on this because the consequences of the infringements cannot and should not be underestimated. Mr Segers has already referred to the recent Salduz legislation. The protection of the rights of the defendants was blatantly ignored. In fact, many criminal investigations may end up in the wastebasket. I will continue with what Mr Segers also referred to, namely the Audit Body, because that is within your competence. If Mr Schuermans of the Supervisory Body states that it does not have the capacity to control this in all police areas, then I think we have a problem. He says that they conduct a number of proactive investigations every year and make visits to police zones and federal police entities, where camera usage is a fixed theme. However, that cannot be a satisfactory answer to the problem that is rising today. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Do you already have knowledge of similar practices in other police areas? Will resources and capacity be created so that the Control Body can control all police areas? What will you do to ensure that there are no similar facts in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u3	Mr Boukili is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u4	Mr. Chair, Minister, I think the context has been largely established. So I am not going to expand on it and I am going directly to my questions. Is an investigation initiated in this case, possibly within a disciplinary framework? If so, is the validity of judicial proceedings threatened? This case necessarily raises the question of the means of control put in place. Are steps taken to ensure that such practices are not replicated in other locations? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u5	You are right to say that the rights of defence are a fundamental principle of our rule of law, which must be guaranteed at all times and always be handled with care. The eavesdropping of a conversation between a client and his lawyer is an illegal practice and an unacceptable violation of the confidentiality of the conversations between lawyer and client. Moreover, such an infringement is a violation of the rights of the defence with a possible impact on the criminal investigation. Having said that, it should be noted that, in this specific case, it is not yet established that criminal offences have been committed and that potentiality has also become a real reality. Despite all these elements, I thank the COC for its swift and decisive action. I also have confidence in the investigation that the Justice Department and the Disciplinary Board are currently carrying out on the facts. It is also important to avoid the appearance of a breach of confidentiality at all times. That is why it is a good thing that an investigation is being carried out. I spoke to the Integrated Police Coordination Committee (CCGPI) yesterday during my regular consultation with them and also drew their attention to the importance of this issue, which was also endorsed by all members of the CCGPI. You will understand that I cannot go into the specific dossier in the light of the ongoing investigations. For questions about the criminal record, please refer to the Minister of Justice. The Salduz legislation defines the rights of defence. It is my conviction that all police officers are sufficiently trained to be fully aware of these rights and obligations under the Salduz legislation. In addition, the executives of the corps are also responsible for the application and follow-up of specific directives within their respective units. If one does not respect the rights of the defence and thereby violates the law, one exposes oneself to disciplinary and/or criminal prosecution. Any infringement of these laws is punishable and subject to inspection by the supervisory bodies. Local authorities are primarily responsible for the control of their police area and their chief of corps. My responsibility as a minister is at a higher disciplinary level. At the organizational level, my authority is limited to improving training, directives and legislation. We will have to wait until the end of judicial and disciplinary proceedings before we can analyse whether structural improvements need to be developed and implemented. Yesterday, on Tuesday 18 May, Minister van Quickenborne and myself addressed a joint request to the COC asking for a thematic survey to be carried out across the country. The COC responded positively to that request last night. If similar offences are detected, criminal and disciplinary investigations will also be possible. At present, I do not have any indication that these practices would occur elsewhere. I would also like to refer again to the data protection officer (DPO) who has been required to be present in every police area since GDPR legislation. This is an additional supervisory body, in addition to the existing GDPR legislation and the police laws and regulations for the protection of the rights and privacy of suspects. Chiefs of corps are personally responsible for compliance with GDPR legislation. They are in fact managers responsible for any use of personal data and for the preservation of this type of data by all means. Mr Depoostere, Mrs Ingels, on your specific question whether I will allocate the necessary resources to the COC to carry out a global survey, I would remind you that the COC is an independent supervisory body, depending on Parliament, as is the P Committee. It is therefore up to Parliament to provide the necessary resources so that the COC can carry out this important task properly. Mrs Ingels, in reply to your statement that the legislation would not be sufficiently well known, I would like to put this in a different light. It is true that the Salduz legislation has been in force for a decade. The police officers are well trained for that. Since they have long known the procedures, they are well established. In my opinion, there are few complaints about the non-respect of Salduz legislation, particularly few complaints about the rights of the suspect, which have been strengthened since that Salduz legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u6	Madam Secretary, when I read the article, I thought it was unlikely news. I still believe, of course, that this needs to be sorted out to the bone. Such situations, which even reminiscent of matters in authoritarian regimes, cannot under any circumstances take place here, even if they were not meant to be, or even not meant to be. It is, of course, essential that it can be ruled out with certainty as soon as possible that this happens in other areas as well. I am therefore delighted that you, together with Mr Van Quickenborne, have requested a thematic study. That is particularly necessary. I also understand, of course, that the current investigation does not allow you to say everything. You also mentioned the avoidance of an appearance of violation of the rights of the defence. I do have my doubts about that, as it seems to go beyond that, if even casual passers-by could watch. In particular, I ask questions about your claim that Salduz training is sufficient. Then how was that situation possible and why didn't anyone light a light? Someone must have realized that what happened there wasn't okay? It's been a long time, hasn't it? I am very curious about this thematic research, and I wish you every success in doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u7	I agree with that. All colleagues agree that such practices are reprehensible and should not occur in our society. That puts everything on a slippery slope. The rights of suspects and the rights of the defence must be respected at all times. Of course, like you, I have confidence in the control bodies and in the outcome of the ongoing investigation. It is also very positive that yesterday you decided relatively quickly to conduct the thematic inquiry across all police areas. That seems to me to be a very good measure. If you refer to the COC as part of Parliament and say that it is indeed Parliament that has to provide resources for this, then it would be a moral support if you were to support it, just like Mr Van Quickenborne.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u8	Madam Secretary, I have not asked for any additional funding at all. I asked if you were planning to increase the COC controls. I therefore welcome the initiative taken yesterday by yourself and Mr Van Quickenborne and the positive response of the COC. I also asked if you would continue to support the COC in putting these matters on the table and putting your shoulders under it, as Mr Depoostere pointed out. Maybe there's also a need for a global analysis of camera usage in police buildings. On February 10th I asked a question about the use of cameras in police cells. You said the federal police would perform an analysis. It doesn't seem clear. It would be good if there were a global analysis of which cameras are used, how they are used, how often they are used, in the different premises of police buildings. I'm looking forward to the analysis of the COC.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u9	Minister, I must say that I am quite reassured by your answer. I hear there's a disciplinary investigation, but there's also a judicial process. We will remain attentive to the results. If this is actually a listening, it is a serious fact. We need to make sure this doesn't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. It has often been mentioned in this committee; trust in the police is essential in our society. The fact that the police would not respect the framework within which they should work is, of course, very worrying. You say that it has not yet been established that illegal practices have taken place and that you are waiting for the investigation of the justice system and the disciplinary investigation. In any case, this affair damages confidence in the police. A fair question, also asked by colleagues, is how we can trust that this is not a standard practice. You will have a thematic investigation conducted. That's very good. You say you have no evidence that this practice exists elsewhere. We hope so together with you. Are police officers who raise such abuses sufficiently protected by a whistle-blower scheme? Have police officers been trained enough to apply the Salduz legislation? You say that the executives are responsible for this. We will await the disciplinary investigation, but if it turns out that things have gone wrong, it is very important that there should be a sanction for the chief of police. Such facts certainly cannot be tolerated. In that case, resignation is in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u11	The Chair: Question No. 55017296C by Ms. Julie Song was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u12	Mr. President, Mr. De Maegd asked me to apologize to you for his absence because of a vaccination appointment. Minister, on May 3, a plainclothes policeman who was not on duty was recognized by young people and was literally lynched in the middle of the street. He was beaten with iron bars and sticks. This situation of violence and hatred towards our law enforcement agencies is developing in a structural way, not only in our own home, because, as you know, in Paris there is currently a demonstration of police officers wishing to draw attention to the violence they are facing. In the Brussels Region, other police officers have been assaulted in recent weeks in a series of targeted attacks (information confirmed by the spokesperson for the Brussels-Midi police zone). For example, a motorbike policeman was hit on 16 April and, last Friday, police patrols were targeted by projectiles while they were operating in the Cureghem district and Lemmens Square in Anderlecht. VPs have been written on all these incidents and investigations are under way. The spokesman said that "these facts are probably linked to certain criminal phenomena" and, just as serious, that is when she said: "The fact that the police are no longer welcome because of the verbalization of covid offences cannot be ignored". The issue of areas of non-rights, which it ultimately publicly mentions, is a matter of concern. You will recall that last October, I tabled a proposal for a review of the Prosecutors General's Circular to ensure systematic prosecution of all perpetrators of violence without further distinguishing between incapacitated violence (... ) Madam Minister, you have taken the initiative, along with your colleague from Justice, to amend the circulars so that the prosecution is more systematic against the perpetrators because, ultimately, the issue is not only to increase the penalties incurred by the authors, but also to enforce them. It is therefore the guarantee of investigative capacity in terms of manpower and technology that is at stake. Could you please tell me what information you can still provide us at this stage about the aggression committed in Saint-Gilles? Have any identifications been made? Were detentions and police custody decided? Have any means been made available to identify all perpetrators of the beatings? Have any specific measures been taken? Have any initiatives been taken by the local area, particularly with regard to the formation of civil parties? Can you confirm to me that article 280 of the Criminal Code, which provides for aggravating circumstances for the perpetrators of attacks against the custodians of the public authority, is applicable, even if the police officer is not in service, as was the case here? Finally, should not the Minister, an evaluation or at least a reflection be repeated on the possibility for police officers to have weapons or defensive equipment as part of the journey from home to work? As you know, we have thoroughly explored these issues at the time of the attacks in Brussels, leaving it to the heads of corps to allow their personnel to return home armed at the end of their service. Shouldn't the thought go back to the agenda?.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u13	Madam Minister, since Mr Pivin has already done a great deal, I will not create the framework again, but I would like to ask a few questions about the possible new developments following the events in St Gillis. Have any IDs been made on the unsubs? How many of them were banished? What consequences do they risk for assault against a policeman? How are incidents followed where hang-young cops fish? How will the police officer in question be further supported? Does that happen through Article 52 of the Police Department Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u14	I will not go back over the facts which are now sufficiently known and which I very much disagree with. I would also like once again to express my support for the policeman in question and for all the policemen who watch over our security day after day and on whom such an incident has a major impact. At the present stage of the investigation, a section specializing in local search of the Midi police zone deals with the identification of the various suspects. This section has set up a task force in collaboration with the police search service of the Brussels-Capital Ixelles police zone in order to identify the perpetrators of these acts as soon as possible. The number of suspects is likely to be between 10 and 15 and traditional investigative methods have been implemented. They are used for all cases of assault and injury. The court also pays particular attention to the facts and the zone acts as a bourgeois party when the perpetrators are known. There is also assistance for the colleague who is the victim of violence if he or she is a bourgeois party. The assistance to which he or she is entitled is governed by Article 52 of the law. However, other information cannot be provided under the secrecy of information and investigation at this time. Unfortunately, I have been informed that third-party assaults by police officers, while not on duty, have already been reported on several occasions. At the federal police level, 22 incidents with 24 injuries, 12 of which occurred on the way to work, were reported between 2016 and 2020. The possibility of carrying weapons on the way to and from the workplace exists. The decision is made by the Chief of Staff who ensures that the various criteria are met in accordance with IPM 48 (no disciplinary files, etc.).). Each situation is analysed on a case-by-case basis. I want to be clear. Any form of violence (physical, verbal or intimidation) is unacceptable and has no place in our society. The police personnel who must guarantee the safety of everyone deserve protection and the highest respect of all of us. An awareness-raising campaign is also being prepared. The aim is to raise awareness among the staff concerned so that they can systematize the filing of complaints when they are victims of aggression and thus have the most accurate picture possible of this phenomenon; on the other hand, citizens must be made aware of the respect due to these professionals who perform a service essential to the population as a whole on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u15	Madam Minister, I will certainly pass on to my colleague and friend, Michel De Maegd, the details you have given us. Of course, even if there are reservations about the instructions or duties under way, we have an estimate of the number of authors but we do not have a formal identification. I am very nervous that the police are becoming, in a way, a target of choice, whether for small scoundrels or barbaric terrorists. I believe that the answer must be of exemplary firmness because it cannot continue. I hear your determination. I understand that resources are being made available and I believe that the greatest attention should be paid to these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u16	Madam Secretary, I understand that you cannot answer all the questions, as the investigation is still ongoing. My colleague, Mr Pivin, has already pointed out that this is not an isolated case. It is therefore a good thing that progress is being made. Unfortunately, no one could be identified yet. However, the images are very clear, so I hope that identifications can still take place in the future. What we must always bear in mind is that recruitment to the police is already so difficult and so bad today. If things like this are going to happen much more in the future, recruitment will be even more difficult. I am thinking therefore of the need for a very good follow-up, including of the agents involved in aggression. A clear signal will also have to be given to the new recruits about the proper follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u17	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Donné's 55017430C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u18	Mr President, Madam Minister, foreign nationals cannot take part in the elections to the Land Parliaments. The government agreement of the Flemish government stipulates that it will work to achieve that vote. My good colleague, Kristof Slagmulder, has asked a question to the Flemish Prime Minister. The answer shows that the Flemish Government has not yet taken any initiative to this end and that the Flemish Government does not seem to have any great intention of making any efforts to implement its own government agreement in this area either. The short answer to the written question was the following, I quote: "I cannot guarantee that the federal government will work on this." We were not satisfied with that short answer. Yesterday, with a question for explanation, my party once again questioned the Prime Minister. Yesterday Jan Jambon clearly committed himself to raising the issue during the next consultation with the federal government. Of course, you do not have to wait for that meeting. It is not logical that those who are Belgians, but live abroad, may, under certain conditions, participate in the elections to the federal Parliament, albeit the interested parties must register, but cannot do so for elections to a federal parliament. For this, the electorate must be dominated in the state. If you live abroad, you cannot participate. In 2020, a draft special law was adopted in the Senate to extend the voting rights of the citizens of this country residing abroad to the elections to the community and regional parliaments. However, the proposal has no longer been touched by the Chamber. Since the decision has to be implemented federally, I would have liked to hear from you the following. Is the current government willing to take an initiative in this matter? What is the current state of affairs on this matter? I'm very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u19	Mr President, Mrs Pas, the government agreement stipulates that the government will examine the possibilities of making Belgians voting abroad more accessible in order to achieve higher participation rates. The study on the voting of Belgians abroad in regional and community elections has yet to be carried out within the government. However, as announced and in implementation of the coalition agreement, the investigation will be carried out in cooperation with my fellow Foreign Minister, who is responsible for organising the Belgian elections abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u20	Madam Minister, I would have liked to have heard a timing, because I can only assume that the investigation cannot take so long, since in the previous legislature a draft special law already prepared to introduce it. I can only assume that the investigation has actually already been carried out and that a gear could be increased. We have been waiting for it for some time. In 2015, a resolution was unanimously adopted in the Flemish Parliament that asked the federal government to work on the settlement as a matter of urgency. I will continue to follow it closely so that we do not have to wait too long for it and it will certainly be all right before the next elections. We will certainly help you to reach a two-thirds majority for such a design. I hope that will work on the French-speaking side too, because that was where the angel was last legislature. That was also the answer of Prime Minister Jambon yesterday: the case was blocked on the French-speaking side out of flat opportunism, because apparently in French-speaking Belgium there is the opinion that a Belgian resident abroad is an MR vote and that is why it would be a problem. We will support you in getting that through as soon as possible, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u21	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, on May 4, Parliament, like other federal and federal institutions in the country, was the victim of a cyber attack. I have already been able to ask you about this type of threat and about measures to strengthen our services to be put in place quickly and planned in the government agreement. The pandemic has, of course, increased malice and other computer hacking, considering the increase in telework and the increase in computer exchanges within the private and public sectors for more than a year. Specifically with regard to these events on 4 May, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office opened an investigation following a complaint to the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU) about the "denial-of-service attack" by the Internet service provider Belnet. Since then, the Committee on the Interior has decided to hear a number of experts, but decisions must be taken without waiting for these hearings and the conclusions drawn from them. In this regard, the Prime Minister announced a specific National Security Council on this issue a few weeks ago. This Council will be held tomorrow. It was also decided to make available multi-year IT consultants for the engagement of consultants until 2025. Madam Minister, are the failures of visio systems by the "Zoom" software of our Parliament and other public institutions well done by a cyber-attack by denial of service? In the meantime, has the FCCU clearly identified the perpetrators of this attack? What emergency security measures had to be taken on that occasion? What public services were affected and what data were affected on 4 May? Has the integrity of the data managed by these services been preserved? What investigations have been conducted by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office? What services and operational capacity have you mobilised in this context? Specifically, what measures are on the table for the National Security Council on 20 May as part of the new national strategy? What is specifically envisaged for the police services in the allocation plan for the 79 million envisaged in the recovery plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u22	Mr Pivin, the Consultation Committee of 23 April has laid down strict rules for the reopening of the terraces. These relate in particular to the distance between the tables, which must be at least 1.50 m. The Concertation Committee did not provide for any derogation from this rule in the case of the use of a plexiglas. The ministerial decrees reflect the decisions of the concertation committees and the protocols give effect to the rules contained in the ministerial decree. It cannot be derogated from. On 23 April, the Concerted Committee decided on important flexibilities, requiring in-depth amendments to several provisions of the Ministerial Order.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u23	Minister, I think you are answering the following question. I was trying to find the connection. The more you talked, the less I could see the connection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u24	Excuse me, Mr. Pivin, I've been distracted. Given the secrecy of the investigation, I am not in a position to report on the status of the investigation. Questions in this regard should be addressed to the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. As regards the recovery plan, two projects were introduced for the police services as approved by the Council of Ministers on 30 April. On the one hand, the EUR 9.33 million project for the digitisation of judicial business processes aims to increase the digitisation of processes currently in place in specific subjects, including cybercrime. On the other hand, the 5G Federal Police project of up to €10 million would provide the equipment needed to maintain police missions as a result of the technological change from 4G to 5G. It should be noted that the project has not yet been approved by Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u25	With regard to the multi-annual provision, can you already specify how many consultancy commitments are planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u26	I don't have the exact figures yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u27	I will therefore ask you the question in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u28	Mr. Chairman, it would be good if the minister could take up her answers all the more since the question on the Outdoor Plan had been tabled a few weeks ago. Since then, the curfew has disappeared, as it was lifted on 8 May. I refer to the questions that have been addressed to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u29	Mr Pivin, between the decisions of the Conciliation Committee and the protocols, normally there can be no derogation. The Conciliation Committee did not provide for any derogation from this rule in the case of the use of a plexiglass for the distance between the tables. It is true that on 23 April, the Concerted Committee decided on important easing, which required a major change in several provisions of the Ministerial Order. New concepts such as the open terrace were introduced. Amendments to the text of the Ministerial Order are discussed with federal government members and federated entities. However, a draft ministerial decree could be submitted as early as 29 April to the legislative section of the Council of State, which delivered its opinion at a general meeting. For this purpose, the Committee had a period of five working days extended to eight working days to communicate it. This opinion of the Council of State in relation to the draft ministerial decree arrived at me on Thursday evening, 6 May. As a result of this opinion, the necessary amendments, which were limited, were urgently developed and validated on the morning of 7 May so that the Ministerial Order could be published as soon as possible. Monitoring compliance with health measures is a task that falls under the basic police functions. In our model of integrated police services at two levels, it is up to the chief of corps of the police area concerned to organize themselves in such a way that sufficient capacity and resources are provided to carry out this mission. If these resources are insufficient, it is possible to use the traditional mechanism of solidarity with the federal police or other police areas. In addition, the federal police provide police areas with the opportunity to obtain additional patrols. The Federal Police Response Reserve is also ready to provide assistance, if necessary, in the event of major unforeseen problems. Finally, active prevention services at the municipal level can also play a role that should not be overlooked. I'm thinking of social workers, prevention officers, park guards, private security officers. It is not necessary to turn immediately or exclusively to the police services to ensure that the planned gatherings are carried out effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u30	Minister, thank you for your full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u31	Mr President, Madam Minister, the use of mobile applications to report police traffic and road safety control actions in the Community network is not new. Nor are interpretations of the impact of their use new. While these applications may, for a time, have been criticized by some who consider that this handicaps police work, it has appeared that they were also involved in raising awareness and securing certain places at risk in terms of mobility, along the lines of announcements by our law enforcement agencies of BOB campaigns or of marathons to combat speed. On the other hand, I even think that the police forces are encouraging these applications to broadcast speed control points on our road network on time. Collaboration on this issue has developed. In this regard, France has decided to limit somewhat the scope for the dissemination of messages from these applications, precisely for certain police control and interception missions. Indeed, by the end of this year, French law will include prohibitions on reporting, for these applications, of police presence in the context, for example, of alcohol and narcotics controls and in the search for persons in the case of terrorist acts or abductions. Madam Minister, could you please tell me what legal provisions currently govern in Belgium the reporting of mobile applications such as Waze or Coyote? What other applications are listed by the Belgian authorities in this context? Do there already exist restrictions in our country regarding the alerts recorded by these applications and the live issuance of such alerts? What formal and structural procedures are in place at this level and by which services are they managed? More specifically, what collaborations exist between law enforcement agencies and the managers of these applications in the context of ad hoc actions of the police services? Are any conventions or protocols in force? Finally, with regard to specific interception and control missions, have your administration given any guidance on these types of mobile applications? If so, which applications and why?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u32	Mr Pivin, the main legal provision applicable in Belgium is Article 62a of the Law on Road Traffic, prohibiting the use of devices which obstruct, prevent or detect road traffic offences. In concrete terms, these are devices that actively detect police radars, known as bugs, and the means used to prevent reporting, e.g. a motorcycle registration plate folded in such a way that it is no longer legible on a photograph. It is also prohibited to advertise such equipment, as well as to offer these services or to give advice with a view to their assembly. Other means, which merely warn police controls, such as Coyote, Waze, social networks such as Facebook and WhatsApp, as well as a Gps with programmed radar location, are not prohibited in Belgium. In some cases, controls are announced by the police. Generally, this is done in a fairly general context, without the exact place and time of the checks being communicated. These announcements are made both at the federal level, for example for a speed marathon, and at the local level, for example by the disclosure of some places where controls will be carried out in the coming week. Article 4, § 6 of the Law on Technical Conditions stipulates that in the event of a finding of possession of a radar detector, the aircraft will be seized and the driver's driver's licence will be immediately withdrawn. Other directives are set by the Minister of Justice and the College of Attorneys General in COL 9/2006.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u33	Madam Minister, thank you. You answer quite precisely the various questions I have asked. There is therefore no specific protocol. Arrangements are made on a case-by-case basis. We are quite far from the initiatives taken in France. It is worth recalling that the use of Waze and Coyote is far from being prohibited. On the contrary, I think it should be encouraged; it is a good preventive measure for motorists.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u34	"The latest ministerial decree on emergency measures to combat the spread of covid-19 contains a new provision determining the procedure for experiments and pilot projects (including sporting and cultural events) derogating from the rules of the ministerial decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u35	Do you intend to restore the French version of the opinion of the legislative section of the Council of State by an erratum to the Belgian Monitor as soon as possible?"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u36	Mr De Smet, first of all, I note that your questions are perhaps no longer entirely current, since a new ministerial decree of 7 May has been issued in the meantime. I shall take this into account in my response as far as possible. With regard to the legal basis of this article 10, I can only state once again that it, like all the ministerial decrees adopted so far, has as legal basis the Civil Protection Act, the Civil Security Act and the Police Function Act. As you know, the relevance of these legal bases has been repeatedly confirmed by the Administrative Litigation Section of the Council of State, as well as in the opinions of the Legislative Section of the Council of State of 23 April and 6 May 2021 on the last two draft ministerial decrees. More specifically, with regard to the pilot projects envisaged in the present case, they fall within the above-mentioned framework and in the decision of the Conciliation Committee of 14 April. In particular, they will aim to contribute to the assessment of the evolution of the epidemic situation in general and to the possibility of reviving the world of events and culture in particular. On the question of the distribution of powers vis-à-vis the federated entities to which you seem to refer, I would like to stress that the organisation of the pilot projects envisaged will obviously remain the responsibility of the competent level of authority. However, it is still up to the minister who signed the ministerial order to grant a derogation from the rules contained therein, in this case after receiving the reasoned opinions of the various actors concerned. With regard to the protocol on the organisation of pilot projects, I can confirm that the protocol is drafted and operational. It falls within the competence of the Covid-19 Commissioner's Coordination Unit. With regard to the 31 May date you mentioned, I would like to point out that, as since the beginning of the crisis we have been going through, the measures in force have been continuously evaluated in the light of the epidemiological results that are changing from day to day. In the meantime, the measures have been extended until 30 June, including by ministerial order of 7 May. As you know, at the meetings of the Consultation Committee on 14 and 23 April, a gradual relaxation of the measures from 8 May was announced provided that the vaccination coverage rate for those over 65 years of age had reached 80 per cent and that the situation in intensive care services had improved. This was confirmed during the Consultation Committee on 28 April. Another meeting was held on 11 May to assess the epidemiological situation and adjust the measures. I would also point out that the Council of State, in its opinions of 23 April and 6 May on the two draft ministerial orders, has indicated its support for this approach, as long as the Government is committed to ensuring at all times that the measures taken meet the requirements of proportionality in view of the present situation. Finally, opinions intended for the federal authority must be translated for it or its delegates in the other national language by the Legislative Section of the Council of State, within 15 days of the communication of the unilingual opinion. This is a period of order which may prove difficult to comply with in particularly busy times. Notices requested within five working days shall be translated as soon as possible. In the very near future, the full version of the opinion of 23 April in French and Dutch will be published in the Moniteur belge.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u37	Minister, since my question was old, I had no doubt that you would update your answer with reference to the Order of May 7.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u38	Debates of the European Parliament 55017545C by Mrs Chanson was postponed. It is now up to Mr Metsu to answer a series of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u39	Mr President, I know the Minister is busy. For the sake of efficiency, I would like to translate my questions into written questions if the Minister can assure me that I will be able to receive the answer to my questions in writing soon, this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u40	Mr Metsu, I am always open to such a question. I think you should be able to get the answers by the end of the week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u41	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early Debates of the European Parliament Mr Donné's 55017639C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u42	Madam Secretary, a few weeks ago I had a question about the recruitment of 1,600 police officers. You replied that they will come aboard, which is good news. This question is about how it goes on. Due to years of reduced recruitment, there is a generalised deficit with the federal and local police. The police zones continue to open up places. The same goes for the federal police, but the latter has started a catch-up movement. There are too few aspirants at the police school to fill the vacancies. There are indeed hundreds of vacancies for classical mobility and for category C aspirant mobility. Moreover, there is an obligation to participate in aspirant mobility. The consequences of this are felt on the ground. Except for a few places, vacancies are filled by aspirants only through the aspirant mobility. Due to the lack of recruitment, selection and capacity at the police schools, there are fewer aspirants than to go. The less attractive areas, for any reason, are only increasing their deficit. They're in a downward spiral. In the heavy deficit zones - and there are a lot of them, especially in Flemish Brabant - there is a great deal of concern among the police chiefs and executives. Inspectors and agents on the ground have little or no prospects of improvement and have to work longer periods. Mayors are faced with the danger that basic safety in the territory for which they are responsible can no longer be guaranteed in the long term. I'm one of those mayors and my chief of police card that issues every two weeks at the police college again. Several inspectors, especially in the intervention sector, begin to ask serious questions and even deal with vacancies in other areas with much less deficit. However, the solution is logical and simple. In my opinion, the most deficient areas must first be served with the 1,600 new recruits who will be employed. Madam Secretary, do you also think that the most deficient areas should be served first? Are you considering limiting the number of places in the aspirant mobility to the high deficit zones and services? That's what's happening in federal services. Shouldn't the total pot be divided between federal and local police? This requires an adjustment of GPI 73 circular. The terms deficit or high deficit must certainly be defined differently from the GPI 39 letter, which refers to 95% of the minimum standard. How much do you think that percentage should be?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u43	I will give a rather concise answer, because the issues raised in the drafting of the new selection concept have also been raised as concerns in the working group that focuses on the recruitment reserve. At the moment, the internal discussions on the design of the selection concept have not yet been fully completed, but it is clear that we are in a final stage. It is also clear that a solution needs to be found to quickly tackle the biggest deficits in a structural way. In any case, the new selection concept and the recruitment of 1,600 inspectors during this year will be able to contribute to this. As the new selection concept is expected to address the bottlenecks you mentioned, it is not appropriate to make any changes today to the GPI 39 circular and the provisions on which the redirection letter is based. There is certainly an answer to this question in the new selection concept.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u44	Madam Minister, I understand that you cannot respond comprehensively because the negotiations are still under way. In any case, I welcome your positive response to my first question on a solution for the most deficit zones. If the relevant letter is replaced by the agreements made in the new recruitment and selection procedure, then that is also a solution. I look forward to it. I'm concluding. In these corona times, people with underlying conditions or people who are very sensitive to covid are first vaccinated or, if they are ill, first taken to the hospital. That line should also apply to police areas infected by the undermanning virus or undermanning virus. They must be given the vaccine, namely new recruits, so that they can work healthy again and so that all police officers, chiefs of police and mayors can continue to guarantee security on their territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u45	Nice metaphor, Mr Vandenput.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u46	Mr President, Minister, every time the conflict in the Middle East flares up, we see that this also leads to various events and frustrations. I regret that, because I believe that people should have their own opinion and be able to sympathize with the situation there, but we must warn against anti-Semitic incidents and reactions to the local Jewish community. We have to stay very far away from such incidents. Last week, the Belgian League against Anti-Semitism raised a number of objections against a politician, whose name I am not mentioning today, in particular because she imported the conflict. I would also like to remind you that during a protest event in Brussels last weekend some anti-Semitic slogans were scanned. Those anti-Semitic slogans were condemned by the court of first instance in Antwerp as clearly hating the Jewish community and in 2019 the court of appeal also confirmed that. Unfortunately, we have not heard anything from Unia in this story so far. Madam Secretary, can you contact Unia for a bourgeois trial in this matter? I have also heard that a member of the Jewish community yesterday was beaten up in Antwerp by some hotheads who threw a number of spoils at him. I also understand that the internal Jewish security service of the Jewish organizations lists the various anti-Semitic or anti-Jewish incidents of the past few days, which already contains thirty to forty incidents. That is particularly disturbing. I ask with my party a clear signal from your cabinet and from the Justice Department for a real zero tolerance for anti-Semitism, as the previous government has always said. I would like to know if you will ask the competent police forces to patrol extra in the neighbourhoods of the Jewish community and the Israeli embassy, where we can expect such problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u47	Mr President, Minister, last weekend several pro-Palestinian and pro-Israeli protests took place in our cities. Due to the large number of people present, the necessary social distance could not be preserved. The demonstrations were contrary to the current corona rules and were therefore also prohibited by the mayors. As Mr Freilich has already said, freedom of expression and the right to speak are obvious, although some people's anti-Semitic statements on a Free Palestine parade in Brussels are regrettable. That deserves a more than thorough investigation. Although this parade did not immediately go coronaproof, there was no massive police intervention last Saturday. We could expect extremist movements to be present here, as was the case in the past. This is in stark contrast to the manifestation in the Ter Kamerenbos earlier this month. We could count on a massive display of power there. The difference in treatment raises some questions for me. Do you have an idea of the size of the demonstrations in the different cities? Were there any records drawn up by the law enforcement? For what reason? How many administrative arrests have been made? For the sake of clarity, what are the general guidelines on police interventions for the past and future demonstrations covered or covered by the same rule of the MB? What is and what was the criterion to tolerate a demonstration or to move on to heavy show of power and enforcement? Has there been any consultation between the local police and the federal police during these demonstrations? This was the case in the past in the Ter Kamerenbos, as the number of participants admitted was still considerably exceeded. Do you see in the short term a possible relaxation of the maximum number of participants admitted to demonstrations? If so, from when?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, several pro-Palestinian demonstrations have indeed been organised over the last few days, throughout the country. As you know, it is primarily up to the local authorities to judge the admissibility of these demonstrations. In my capacity as Minister of the Interior, I would like to go into your questions a little more in depth. As far as is known, the manifestations in their generality went peacefully and there were no major violent incidents. In any case, the police, intelligence services and the OCAD are monitoring the situation closely. The OCAD has drawn up the necessary threat assessments each time and the National Crisis Centre can decide on additional measures at any time. Mr Freilich, as you also say, it goes without saying that the conflict affects our minds too, but it is my belief that such a conflict can never justify violence and hatred against a particular community or faith, or anti-Semitism. Freedom of expression is rightly a very cherished freedom in our country, but that freedom is, of course, linked to certain rules. Thus, for health reasons, the rules in the fight against covid pandemic also have an impact on the way of argument and can constitute a temporary limitation according to the form and extent of such freedom, including in the event of manifestations. I would also like to say that inciting hatred is a criminal offence. That is not only an abominable fact, it is also punishable. It is also for this reason that police training includes the detection and recognition of those facts purposefully and repeatedly. The police are ordered to respond promptly, regardless of who is being stigmatized. Mrs Goethals, as in many other cities in Europe, there were events in our country. In Brussels, but also in Ghent and Antwerp there were larger meetings on Sunday. The demonstration on Saturday 15 May to protest against the violence in Israel and Palestine was a requested and permitted demonstration, in contrast to the various mass meetings in the Ter Kamerenbos on which you allude and which were not admitted. Prior consultation with the organizer was possible for Saturday's demonstrations, as opposed to the La Boum parties where such consultation was impossible. It was also clear the will of the organizer of Saturday's demonstrations to cooperate with the police, again in contrast to the La Boum parties, which also called for violence against the police. During the La Boum manifestations, after an initially calmer period of manifestation, rockets, boulders, paint bombs and molotov cocktails were then thrown in the direction of the police. Laserpointers were used against the drivers of police vehicles. Barricades were erected, some of which were also set on fire to make the passage impossible for the police. People in possession of knives, hammers and hardened boxing gloves were arrested. Among the profiles of the interpelled individuals were hooligans, yellow hoes, conspirators and antivaxers. It is true that the design and presence of the people at the La Boum parties was completely different from the announced demonstrations on Saturday. For the pro-Palestinian demonstrations, an integrated police unit of local and federal police was on standby. The escalating situation of violence in Israel and Palestine has resulted in far more demonstrators than foreseen at the event, but the final police approach has taken place in application of the principles of the plediment of public space management. Priority was given to the organizer, who effectively controlled the moods of a very emotional crowd with an efficient internal order service. The organizer also terminated the manifestation himself and called for it. He's asked the contestants to leave. The police forces were ready to intervene, but this was not necessary after evaluation because the organizer's internal order department had done the necessary work. Afterwards, images of anti-Semitic slogans circulated during the demonstration. Of these a pv was prepared and this was delivered to the parquet. Mrs Goethals, you had a question about possible relaxations in relation to manifestations. From 9 June, the number of authorised demonstrators will be increased to 100. In advance, certain routes will also be allowed, of course in consultation with local authorities and mayors, so that this can be done in good time. Further relaxations will be considered at a subsequent stage and, where appropriate, approved insofar as the health situation so permits. Obviously, certain restrictions should not last unnecessarily long.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u49	Madam Minister, it is indeed important that, as far as anti-Semitism is concerned, we pursue zero tolerance. As you say, nothing justifies importing the conflict into our country, pressuring people, chanting anti-Semitic and racist slogans, and certainly not physically attacking people. I hope that the federal government, the police and the court will remain vigilant and that there will be effective zero tolerance for such behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u50	Madam Minister, each demonstration must be dealt with separately and must be responded when necessary. However, I get the impression that sometimes double standards and two weights are used. As soon as a demonstration is given a political content, the police act differently from other events. Nor am I in favour of tough police action if that is not necessary, let us be clear. However, if the police are present with a great deal of power, it may well be that a number of people are provoked, and that they in turn provoke the police. Of course, that cannot be the intention either. I feel that there is no clear uniform approach in the directives that the police authorities are getting, and I can imagine that it is not easy for them to work in these circumstances and that this can cause frustration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u51	Question No 55017841C by Mrs Song is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u52	Madam Minister, unfortunately I wanted to ask you about a sad case, which may be representative of something else. It happened three years ago. This is Lamine Bangoura, who died because of a choking at the end of maintaining pressure on his chest cage. This conclusion is not mine, it is that of the report of the forensic doctor who self-applied the body of the young Guinean. However, in the police training entitled "Training of violence without a firearm - the laying of handcuffs", the section on the risks of asphyxiation explains that "the pressure of the knees and the weight of the police force act on the chest cage which must carry out certain movements (inspirations / expirations), necessary to be able to breathe properly. Here, the body will lack oxygen (O2) and at the same time, it cannot evacuate carbon dioxide. This phenomenon appears very quickly if the opponent has exceeded his physical limits, for example during the arrest. "After handcuffing, the use of stress is therefore stopped, depending on the state of nervousness of the opponent". The author of the formation concludes by saying: "We cannot, however, sit on (the body of) the opponent". However, the images that were broadcast following the death of Lamine Bangoura show that the intervention was rather made in opposition to this formation. Therefore, Madam Minister, my questions are as follows. Are these recommendations known to all police officers? Are they recalled outside the initial training of police officers? Is non-compliance a source of disciplinary sanctions? If so, how many police officers have been punished since 2016 for abuse of this practice? Thank you for the answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u53	Mr. Moutquin, these recommendations are part of the content of violence control training programs. The skills acquired during basic training are supplemented by continuing training during the career and by annual compulsory training periods during which these principles are recalled. In addition, these trainings and trainings can only be provided by specialists in violence control, who follow an annual retraining organized centrally by the National Police Academy to this end. The directive you invoked must be read as imposing a ban on sitting on the body of a person arrested once the handcuffs have been placed and the person concerned is under control. The aim of the above-mentioned training and training is to teach the various techniques of controlling violence and in what contexts it is appropriate. The police officers involved are obliged to apply, depending on the situation, the technique which will entail the least risk to both the person concerned and to guarantee their safety. Any incident related to the use of force shall be reported and analysed, where appropriate, to improve training and/or technology. In addition, the proportionality of the force used will be examined. Where disproportionate use is found, appropriate measures shall be taken on the basis of the judicial or disciplinary investigation. As regards the Federal Police, no violation of this directive was brought to the attention of the disciplinary authorities during the period concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u54	Madam Minister, I am very reassured to hear that this training is not only given in advance, but that it is also ongoing training and that there is finally an update of the techniques. It is known, for example, that intervention techniques between Belgium and other countries, particularly Germany, differ. Some catches or pressures sometimes allowed in our home are not allowed elsewhere and vice versa. I hear, however, that it is forbidden to sit on the body of a person arrested and handcuffed, as was the case here. There are, therefore, visible gaps. I know that the debate is complex and cannot be summed up in the sad death of Mr. Bangoura, but I would like to recall the recent report of the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination, which is concerned about police violence in Belgium, which is racist in nature. The Committee is concerned that they are very few grouped and analysed. I'm not a judge. Without assuming what has happened here, this kind of business must really alert us and perhaps have a much more focused but comprehensive political response to other more structural issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u55	Mr Moutquin, at the police level, the fight against trafficking and trafficking in human beings is structured as follows. On the basis of the prosecution policy defined by reference magistrates, local police and units of the Federal Judicial Police have specialized teams in matters with varying capacities in different districts. These teams are primarily responsible for the monitoring of judicial investigations under the authority of the reference magistrates of local prosecutors' offices. The Directorate-General of the Judicial Police has within the Directorate for Combating Serious and Organised Crime a section specializing in monitoring the phenomenon of trafficking and trafficking in human beings. This section is responsible for coordinating information and criminal intelligence at the national and international levels, coordinating investigations and providing certain forms of operational support upon request from magistrates or investigators. With no details of the police operation you mentioned, it is difficult for me to guess the context or circumstances in which it took place. However, when an operation is conducted as part of a judicial investigation specifically dedicated to trafficking or trafficking in human beings, it is very likely that these actions will be carried out by the specialized teams. These same teams, in large-scale operations planned in advance, can also provide specialized support. In the case of an operation carried out by a front-line police unit, for example during a flagrante delicto or as part of an administrative police action, it is quite possible that no specialist investigator will be present at the time of the intervention. It is often then, at the express request of the magistrates, that specialized investigators are required to start an investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u56	Madam Minister, thank you. I didn't know exactly how it worked. Your answer is interesting. That said, this question must also be asked of your colleague Mahdi, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. Indeed, one of the challenges in combating human trafficking and trafficking is the protection of those who are victims of such trafficking. Why not with a status that protects them and allows them to file a complaint? It is certain that in large-scale operations, sometimes the cells concerned are not present for lack of means. You talked about variable abilities, etc. It would really be worth thinking about these issues. I know that the government has planned to address the issue of human trafficking and trafficking more precisely and, above all, more systemicly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u57	Minister, the day before yesterday, we were celebrating the International Day to Combat Homophobia and Transphobia. Many issues need to be addressed in this regard. I would like to go back to the tragedy that occurred a few weeks ago, that of David's assassination. The problem is that of dating applications. These applications are becoming increasingly popular in order to facilitate or accelerate interpersonal encounters. The health crisis has seen this trend increase in view of the closure of the usual places of socialization. Among these applications, some have specialized and specifically target a particular audience, including homosexuals. As you know, a few weeks ago, David was found dead, visibly trapped by an agreed appointment using one of these applications. Such dramatic cases are rare, however, it seems that guets-apens tend to multiply in recent years. These criminal acts aimed at humiliating, stealing and violating homosexuals because they are homosexuals are of course not new; this recalls many practices of blackmailing and extortion that they have historically been subjected to, but this new modus operandi increases the insecurity that they suffer on a daily basis. Minister, is there a legislative framework to secure these dating applications? Are you aware of any contacts between the federal police and the managers of these applications? Some victims of such organized violence do not dare to file a complaint for fear of being misreceived or tried upon arrival at the police station. What is being put in place at the police training level to ensure optimal reception of these victims? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u58	Mr. Moutquin, at the federal police level, there is no existing collaborative agreement with this type of site. These are platforms to which supposedly major people register and on which they publish advertisements. Interested persons then make contact with the person who published the advertisement and this contact is carried out in the form of private communication and not visible by the registered persons. With regard to judicial contacts in the context of a case, such platforms may be approached for identification or for obtaining computer data on the basis of a request from the judiciary. Police assistance to victims is a legal obligation under Circular OOP15 ter and is also part of the code of ethics of the police services. Among the investments in training, those focused on the reception of victims must occupy a privileged place. In general, this fundamental aspect of police work has already received considerable attention, both in the framework of basic training and through the organisation of continuing training. It is necessary to continue in this direction and pay more attention to the quality of reception and communication of information when police officers are confronted with specific, more recent forms of victimization such as those you put forward. I also refer to the trainings put in place within the integrated police by following Circular COL13/2013 on hate crimes and discrimination. This circular contributes to more effective registration of hate crimes and to a better policy of investigation and follow-up of perpetrators of hate crimes. The approach to discrimination against hate crimes through Circular COL13/2013 and the attention given to victims of hate crimes is in addition to the reception of victims in the core police missions. I also want to draw your attention to the fact that in the last few weeks I have asked the federal police to activate the possibility of declaring hate crimes online. This possibility was activated in the course of March 2021. In this way, we hope to facilitate the declaration of such acts and avoid double victimization. For it is true that the victims feel a certain reluctance, despite all the training we give the police officers, to go to the police station in order to make a statement. This reluctance is obviously inherent in the sensitive nature of the facts. I am now convinced that this possibility of online reporting is a major step forward for victims of this type of crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u59	Madam Minister, thank you. There were actually two parts to my question. The first part was contact with the relevant dating applications. I hear that there is not really a platform or a dialogue, but I think it is really beneficial to encourage it. Indeed, an organisation such as the Rainbowhouse in Brussels, for example, on the day after David's murder, explained on his networks and on his Facebook page some security measures that homosexuals had to take before they met someone. For example, make sure to prevent another person from meeting, make sure that the person exists or that he or she does, through a voice or video telephone contact. So there is a whole series of things that could help protect people who use these dating apps and who could be put in dialogue between the police, field associations and, why not, your firm. I think this meeting could really be very interesting. On police training and reception, I hear you. It is indeed a very good thing, the initiative you have taken, and the fact that you can file a complaint via the Internet. I believe that a plan to combat homophobia, lesbians, transphobia will soon come; it will help to clarify a whole series of actions. I have no doubt about your commitment on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u60	Mr President, Madam Minister, in early September, the Federal Unit Public Health & Environmental Crime (FUPHEC) was set up. This unit works to combat a series of phenomena such as trafficking in waste, trafficking in endangered animal and plant species, food-related crimes (including animal medicines, pesticides and food supplements), as well as drugs and medical devices (including doping and counterfeiting). Minister, many of the phenomena I have just mentioned can be equated with forms of international crime and, more specifically, with forms of crime in cross-border regions – I am thinking in particular of trafficking in waste. A few months ago, you told me that "the former environment unit, which is now part of FUPHEC, had privileged contacts with Interpol for many years". Would we be able to know whether contacts are maintained with the services dedicated to the fight against environmental and health-related crimes in our neighbouring countries and, depending on the area in which I live, France? On 9 April 2021, an incident in a French company located on the outskirts of the Scheldt caused large-scale pollution of the river and decimated its wildlife for more than 36 km. This type of event does not seem to be among those supported by FUPHEC. Can we know what contacts can be made between Belgian and French police officers following the detection of transboundary pollution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u61	Mr Senesael, DG SOC's FUPHEC central service only announces privileged contacts with Interpol, but also with Europol. In addition to these structured contacts, there are also more specific bilateral contacts with the central services of neighbouring countries involved in environmental crime. As far as I am concerned, FUPHEC has frequent operational and political contacts with the Central Office against Environmental and Public Health Violations of the French Gendarmerie. With regard to serious environmental crime, the priority of FUPHEC is to focus on phenomena, trafficking in waste and animal and plant species under international protection. However, FUPHEC is also the police point of contact for other forms of environmental crime with an international dimension. For example, requests for international police cooperation are addressed to the Central Service. The FUPHEC service does not have an official list of contacts for transboundary forms of pollution. In a first phase, the forms of pollution are exchanged between the competent environmental administrations on both sides of the border in order to take urgent and binding measures. It is only in the second phase, when a criminal investigation is initiated, that the official police channels are activated and that the FUPHEC service can play a role in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for this very interesting answer. On the one hand, you confirm that structured and privileged contacts with neighbouring countries are really in place. On the other hand, contacts, particularly with France, are privileged with the Central Office against the damage to the environment of the French gendarmerie. This allows urgent and binding measures to be taken in the event of an environmental disaster, as we have seen on the Scheldt in the Tournaise region in particular. In any case, I will not fail to ensure that these measures and services, on both sides of the border, are privileged and further amplified to enable an effective fight against infringements of our environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u63	Mr.President, Madam Minister, in a control survey conducted in 2018-19, Committee P referred to the need to provide police human resources with a centralizing tool for the training of specialists, with a view to ensuring better follow-up on retraining required during their careers. In the context of this recommendation, which focused in particular on issues of police violence, but which would undoubtedly apply to all specialized functions, can you tell me what is happening with the introduction of such a system within the human resources management of our integrated police?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u64	Mr. Thiébaut, the federal police chose to use the same HR tool as the local police to better manage their organization and staff throughout their career. Managed locally, this instrument is available from the central services. The management of training has been involved in this for a year and will continue to experience many developments to enable progressively better management of skills within the organisation. By default, and in accordance with the GDPR, each police area and federal police directorate only access data on the careers of their personnel. Only certain federal police support services carrying out missions for the benefit of the entire integrated police force – such as basic training and mobility management – can access data relevant to the performance of their missions across the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u65	Minister, thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u66	Minister, as we know, police officers are supposed to do at least one training shot a year with their service weapon. This pace has long been made difficult by the shortage of fire infrastructure adapted to this exercise. I can talk about it as zone president. What is the current situation regarding compliance with this obligation? Are there any statistics to this effect at the central level? What is the current infrastructure situation? If so, what measures are being taken to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u67	With regard to your first question, I would be grateful if you could introduce it in writing, given its detailed nature. On your second question, a cadastre of the needs of the federal police was actually carried out as part of the work to develop its Master Plan Infrastructure. Established in 2016, this cadastre demonstrated a shortfall in the capabilities available within the federal police to meet the requirements of shooting training, as defined in Circular GPI 48. As a result, the masterplan includes a series of projects designed to expand the available fire pit capabilities within the Federal Police. In this case, for the judicial district of Mons, the establishment of a training centre for federal police services is planned as part of the Ghlin project. This implementation will be carried out in consultation with the provincial authorities and the Régie des Bâtiments, in accordance with the agreements made as part of the transfer of the management of the federal state's land to the province. However, the development of the many infrastructure projects in collaboration with the Régie des Bâtiments will take some time, which requires intermediate measures. The Federal Police is making use of the firing booth capabilities available from various partners: from the Defence, police areas, police schools and public institutions such as inter-municipals. The use of private fire pits is also possible when conditions are appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u68	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. With regard to the first question, I shall raise this question again. I am still happy to hear that the project on the Ghlin site is progressing well. I am quite optimistic about the future, but I am aware, like you, that it will take some time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u69	Minister, among the important issues within your jurisdiction, the government agreement plans to work to improve career attractiveness in the police force. This is an important dimension, since we also know the recruitment needs and the difficulties encountered in this area. To this end, social consultation is under way with trade union organisations, in particular on the aspects of a revision of the scales, a revision that would respond to the lack of evolution in this field since the creation of the integrated police structured at two levels. However, the unions of the cities and communes have expressed their concerns to you. The police are integrated and structured at two levels. Funding is certainly also at two levels, since local authorities are heavily involved in the financing of the areas. However, the municipalities are not based on the employer's bench in the framework of the social dialogues for the integrated police and the decisions taken at this level could have an impact on their finances, since almost 75 per cent of the police force is under the responsibility of the local police. Therefore, Madam Minister, in what budget clarity are you working on the revalorisation of the attractiveness of the police function? If so, what correction mechanism do you intend to put in place in favour of the municipalities to prevent this legitimate revalorisation from creating a new burden on the finances of the local entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u70	Mr Thiébaut, positioning the police career as an attractive career is indeed an important spearhead of my policy. The objective of recruiting 1,600 police officers per year has been explicitly reflected in the Government Agreement. To achieve this, the integrated police must be able to be a very attractive employer in the current talent war. It goes without saying that the financial remuneration of police personnel is one of the instruments for achieving this objective. Sectoral negotiations have been launched bearing in mind this political objective. For practical and organizational reasons, negotiations are being conducted under the chairmanship of my cabinet. Local police areas participate through the Standing Committee on Local Police. There are 186 employers, 185 local police areas and the federal police. A representative of this Commission is always present at each stage of the negotiations and two of the three associations of cities and municipalities also participate at each stage. At this stage of the negotiations, it is too early to frame the financial implications. However, I would like to stress that local police areas are an important partner in achieving the objective of positioning the police as an attractive employer and are explicitly associated with the achievement of this objective. The financial burden of this positioning cannot be borne exclusively by the federal authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u71	Madam Minister, thank you. I will, of course, be attentive to the development of this consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u72	Minister, a scientific study was conducted to determine the effect of the presence of a local prevention partnership (LPP) on safety and security. In March 2021, the results of this study were published. Minister, can we have your feedback on the findings of the study? While they reflect many positive elements in terms of feelings of social security and trust, they note that neighbourhoods with PLPs are not particularly safe than neighbourhoods without PLPs. Can we get a specific feedback on this aspect? In addition, the study presents a series of recommendations relating to the implementation of actions, the improvement of communication and the better integration of the PLP into neighbourhood work. Can we receive your opinion on them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u73	Dear colleague, the results of the study were made public in March 2021. A summary of the main results can be found on the B-Safe website. The study focused on 16 local preventive partnerships in Flemish Brabant and Walloon Brabant, due to a balance between the two linguistic regions. The study examined the impact of the presence of a local preventive partnership on citizens' sense of objective and subjective security. The neighbourhoods benefiting from a PLP were then compared to neighbourhoods without PLP in the same area. The study showed that in neighbourhoods with PLP, citizens have greater confidence in the functioning of the police and feel safer. Objective safety was not inferior and was sometimes superior in a neighbourhood with a PLP. This can be explained in different ways: - first, in neighbourhoods with a PLP, there is a greater willingness to report the facts than in neighbourhoods without a PLP. This can lead to higher crime rates in neighbourhoods with PLP; - second, the launch of a PLP in a neighbourhood may be justified by a higher or higher crime rate in that neighbourhood; - finally, it was PLP recently implanted in the Flemish Brabant and in the Walloon Brabant. The study therefore did not examine in detail the long-term effect of the presence of a PLP on the sense of safety. More importantly, the study has shown that the functioning of the PLP can be a means for the police to evoke ties with the citizen, to create greater confidence in its functioning and to improve lines of communication between the citizen and the police. In order to achieve the above objectives, a set of courses on local preventive partnerships has been integrated from the school year 2020-2021 into the in-service training of district inspectors. The aim is also to integrate this module on the operation of the PLP into the training of inspectors. The following actions are undertaken to further support and hear the operation of the PLP. Provincial working groups are established to ensure that each province has a PLP contact point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u74	Minister, thank you for your response. I would like to draw attention to four facts that may allow me to move forward in the reflection that you have begun. First of all, what seems really interesting to me and which is highlighted in the study that you recalled, is an increase in the citizen's confidence in the police. While the police are too often criticized, it seems to me that this bond of trust is really essential and must be amplified as long as possible. In addition, the reporting of these incidents by PLP members will contribute to this sense of security. I also repeat that these links between citizens and the police allow for better communication. This is a fundamental element on which to build in the future for the brand image of the police. Secondly, as I had done during the review of your general policy note, I draw attention to the importance of community policing and neighbourhood inspectors who, at the PLP level, are key elements in this communication, which must go two ways with the citizens. As mayor and president of the police area of the Val de l'Escaut, I am one of those who want to ensure that the installation of these PLPs can reinforce this feeling of public support for the police for an effective partnership. Finally, I thank you for the study that has been carried out and for the answers you have given us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic481x.u75	I'm gonna finish the work here. I thank the Minister for her presence and the many answers she has given.
