ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u1	Minister, there has been a lot to do about the payment of compensation days. People were very angry about that. It's about weekends they can't recover. SNCB had announced that it would simply pay it. If a railroad employee works on weekends or public holidays, he or she gets days off, which makes sense. However, due to the shortage of staff, these compensation days have been piling up for years. The day before yesterday I met a train attendant who couldn't take 13 days off and 33 days off. After an investigation, the social inspection found that the railway workers were working too much. The board decided to pay them for all these days. As a result, they will lose leave, because it will be converted into euros. That was the intention of SNCB. We've been suing for years that there's not enough staff at SNCB. Is it true, Minister, that SNCB has been hit by the social inspection of the many compensation days? Is it true that taking compensation days has become impossible due to the lack of staff? What is the annual recruitment budget of SNCB? Has that been down or up for the past ten years? Has SNCB fully used up its recruitment budget for 2020? If not, what percentage of that has she used effectively? Finally, is it possible to obtain a complete overview of the number of overdue rest days, compensation days and credit days of SNCB staff, by professional category and by region? Can the committee members get that information? How will SNCB address this problem? What will you do to solve it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u2	Minister, the story is well known: the rail crew working on weekends is entitled to compensation days during the week. In the case of SNCB, there appears to be a shortage of staff, so that the company has not granted the compensation days for several years, but instead pays them out. This is also the case for other holidays. Is that right? Since when is that the case? Is that staff shortage the only obvious reason? What is the staff shortage of SNCB? How many vacancies are there? In what way do you try to contribute to a solution? Do you agree with the current approach to this problem by SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u3	Minister, it is a bit annoying that on 7 December I have to ask a question which I tabled on 15 October, seven weeks later. However, it has given me the opportunity to obtain more information on the ground. We hear from a lot of railway workers that the pressure is getting very high. It is good that we have the ambition to continue to ensure the supply of trains, for example in times of covid. It is also good that there is ambition to extend the train supply further with the new transport plan. However, we must ensure that SNCB's staff can work in the best possible conditions and guarantee the quality of service. I feel like that's gonna come under pressure. The accumulation of compensation days, in some cases even 200 days that cannot be absorbed, is a sign on the wall. There has apparently been a complaint from the social inspection, which had originally indicated that those overdue compensation days should be regularised by 31 March 2022. However, that is impossible if we also want to have the trains run in the meantime. Therefore more time would now be given, namely until June 2024. There should be regularisation by allowing staff to take up those days or by voluntary payment. Is it a feasible map, Mr Minister, to ensure that by the middle of 2024, this mountain of late compensation days will be fully regularised? Do you know how many overtime the train attendants have made so far? How many compensation days are still open? Do you have an overview of the number of vacancies for train escorts currently open to SNCB? How many recruitments have happened this year? How many train escorts are leaving? Is there any certainty that the future transport plan, which extends the supply of trains, will allow sufficient staff to be deployed to avoid the accumulation of overtime?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u4	Mr President, Minister, despite this government's new investments in rail, you are aware that the situation of our public railway companies is far from ideal. Indeed, we come from a long way, that is to say from a previous government that has achieved savings of several billions of euros over a whole legislature. Aberration given the social, climatic and mobility issues for which SNCB and Infrabel are essential. In view of the continuous increase in supply and the decrease in the number of railway workers, the main part of the effort is borne by railway workers. This is proof of the number of days of rest that have not been granted to meet service needs. This refers to more than 100,000 days of unallocated rest. In October, management seemed to prefer to pay for these days rather than grant them. Proof that the rail works thanks to the credit that the railwaymen make to us. But while some workers agree, others legitimately feel that they need this rest in view of the accumulated fatigue. As in any industrial sector, fatigue is an accident vector. We can no longer ride thanks to the credit that the railwaymen offer us. Minister, how many days are we talking about today? Has a solution been found to meet workers' rights? Does the management of SNCB consider that the workforce at its disposal is sufficient to meet its commitments? How can we avoid a further accumulation of days of leave not granted in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject before us today has already been discussed in a previous committee. Mr Vandenbroucke, you spoke of a question for October. A debate on this subject has already taken place in committee. We also discussed it in plenary last Thursday as part of a question put to me by Mr Burton. There is, for the moment, pressure on SNCB personnel. I agree with some colleagues who said that without SNCB staff (drivers, escorts, technicians), there would be no rail. We must be grateful to them. But for the moment, SNCB is facing two difficulties: on the one hand, the covid-19 which does not save SNCB workers and, on the other hand, the issue of accumulation of recovery days, a historical system which has existed for a long time at the level of SNCB and on which the Social Inspectorate has issued a negative opinion requesting that it be corrected. I'll take a look at the situation with you. The COOVID-19 crisis has a major social impact, which, unfortunately, also does not spare SNCB and its staff. These workers, attendants, drivers and drivers are often parents whose children attend school. They are citizens who have a life alongside their work. Many of them are also impacted by the virus. It was because of the unavailability of some of these personnel that SNCB decided to temporarily suspend certain trains in order to ensure predictability in the supply of trains, and with the aim of re-circulating the trains that were suspended as quickly as possible. In this particular context, they ensure that services are guaranteed day after day, for almost two years now. The issue of long-term recovery has been raised by the long-standing SNCB, which has been even more prominent since the Social Inspectorate's decision explicitly asking SNCB to address this situation. I would like to stress that the issue affects the social management of the companies themselves, which I follow closely, but in which I do not wish to interfere directly. In this context, there have been several consultations with the workers' organisations and with the social inspection. The latest echoes I received from the consultation are positive and constructive, pointing out that the talks are evolving towards a comprehensive and balanced solution, with respect for labour law. I hope that agreement can be reached with the Social Inspectorate and the organisations representing workers. I cannot say more when the discussions are under way. Mrs Vindevoghel, SNCB and HR Rail are of course bound by labour law, including those on working hours. This is important, not only for the well-being and work-life balance of staff, but also for the safety of rail transport. From the reorganisation of the SNCB Group in 2014 to 2019, the number of external recruitments took place annually between 1,100 and 1,400. On the other hand, SNCB knows that it was difficult for both train staff and technicians to supplement the budgets because of the tight labour market. In view of SNCB's high retirement rate, the recruitment budgets have been higher than they are now, in recent years, which is now declining. Last year, this year and next year, the recruitment budget remained constant at 1,300 full-time equivalents. On the other hand, it was not easy to recruit the necessary profiles for both train staff and technicians during the same period, as many large companies sought the same or similar profiles. Mr Vandenbroucke, in terms of the number of recruitments, SNCB recruited 1,264 FTEs in 2020. This year, SNCB is expected to achieve 1,100 recruitments, of which about 730 people have already started. It remains difficult for workshop technicians, but SNCB continues to make the necessary efforts to recruit the necessary staff. Mrs Hanus, dear colleague, in any event, I continue to follow the development of the discussions on social dialogue in order to achieve a balanced solution for the well-being of SNCB workers, which meets the requirements of the legal framework and the social inspection. This is of course a subject that I will discuss at my next bilateral meeting with the CEO of SNCB, because it is indeed a matter of concern, although it is a matter of social consultation within the company, as I said. I do not see Mrs Rohonyi, but she had asked a question, to which I answer. Well-being at work for all SNCB workers is essential to me. A constant, in order to conclude this debate – I do it regularly, but I do it again –: I would like to express my solidarity and gratitude to the staff of SNCB and also to Infrabel for the continuity of rail service since the beginning of the pandemic, despite the difficult times that we are going through and that we all hope to see the end as soon as possible in order to regain all our freedoms, especially with regard to mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u6	Can we still get the numbers we asked for? Could you please send it to me?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u7	I don't have the numbers, but I'll ask SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u8	The unions reported that they sat around the table. Fortunately, there are unions. Fortunately, there have been social negotiations and trade unions have been on the line. They refused to let people impose that they would get their overtime and recup on leave. Leisure and social life are not for sale. The train escorts work very early in the morning until late at night, with weekends. 28 % of the time they must stand by. For example, if they've worked seven days, they can stand by the eighth day. This means that they need to be available 28 % of the time and therefore cannot meet with family or friends. That's a big problem. If we want to keep the people, we have to take care of them and provide them with good working conditions. A social life is very important to those people. The decision was postponed until March 2022, but postponement is not the solution. A lot of people still have leave days to take. There is therefore an urgent need for additional staff. In addition, the budget has not been fully used for employment and recruitment. There is therefore an urgent need for adequate funding for sufficient staff. In addition, it is important to ensure that the people who used to like to work at SNCB can continue to work there, with pleasure, and not leave because their social life is completely destroyed. Safety also plays a role. We often hear on the premises that people sometimes have to work seven days in a row, which makes them tired. That brings with it safety risks. People are afraid that accidents will happen because they are not equipped enough to do their job.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u9	Minister, you say that you do not want to interfere in the ongoing discussion, but at the end of the journey you are politically responsible. I understand that the social inspection demands that SNCB correct the problem of overtime by the end of March next year at the latest. I hope, together with you, that we can get out, if not, it can still be on the government table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u10	I am pleased that the discussions are progressing constructively. I hope that the problem of mountain compensation days that cannot be absorbed can be solved effectively. I would like to take this opportunity to conclude with a reflection on the absence of a social agreement. I understand from my contacts with the trade unions that it is not purchasing power that is the main priority in these talks, but well-being at work, for example avoiding double shifts for traffic controllers and ensuring that people know in time whether and when they can take their leave days and recovery days. Those are signals we need to follow closely. Of course, we fully support the ambition to increase the supply of rail, but we must ensure that the staffing required for this is followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u11	Mr President, I thank the various colleagues. In view of some of the interventions, I note that many of us have privileged contacts with the trade unions. Mr Minister, I would like to highlight one important aspect, namely the covid-related leave. In fact, it is not legally possible for management to know the reason for sick leave. There are many reasons, including covid. In the PS group, we fear the exhaustion of the staff and working conditions that undoubtedly affect the health of SNCB workers. With rested staff, safety and quality service are ensured. I would like to convey this message to you. On the other hand, I also share the recognition for the quality of dialogue and social dialogue that you have. We encourage you to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u12	Minister, it has been a while since we discussed the dossier. However, recently, especially on Friday 26 November 2021, there were again facts of aggression and violence. In the station of Ottignies a female train attendant was beaten up and wounded on the platform, where she was found happy by a colleague. She had to go to the hospital, which she was lucky enough to leave, and was, of course, pretty marked by what happened to her. A few days later, on Tuesday 30 November, new facts happened again in Ottignie's. A train attendant was beaten up by two men without legal residence, who harassed other passengers on the train. They had too much to drink. Securail went there to try to calm the people involved. One of the two Securail agents has been beaten up to work. Minister, what action have you taken to increase passenger and SNCB safety since the events in Ottignies? How will you and the people of SNCB ensure that everyone can feel safe in the stations, on the platforms and on the trains? It may be difficult for you to tell me about it, but I would like to ask you about the state of affairs in the investigation into the facts in Ottignies. Are the unsubs tracked down? If so, what follow-up and punishment were given to the facts? If not, why aren't they tracked down? Is that gonna happen? Finally, what was the outcome of the crisis consultation that took place on 29 November 2021 between SNCB and the railway associations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u13	Minister, it should not be that people who leave for work should be afraid of possible aggression. SNCB's staff have a uniform and authority function in our society. Not only do they check the tickets, but they also have to guarantee safety on trains and platforms. They must appeal to travellers about their mouth masks and often get blamed for the many delays. Moreover, a proposal on smoking ban is now on the table. We wonder whether that will not provoke further aggression. The problem must therefore be tackled urgently. SNCB personnel must not be a punching bag. There is an urgent need to increase the safety of trains, platforms and stations. This is, of course, in stark contrast to the reduction of staff, the closure of the counters and the centralisation of Securail agents. More staff is needed to increase safety on and around the track. How will SNCB prevent aggression in the future? Do you have a plan to deal with the aggression against train crews? Are there any additional recruitments to increase the safety of the staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u14	Minister, we cannot look at the many reports of violence against railway workers in recent weeks. The subject was also discussed in the debate this morning. On 26 November 2021, a train escort was attacked in Ottignies. On October 25, a train attendant was molested. They are just some of the many examples of the past few months. During the first three quarters of this year, rail workers experienced as many as 1,300 cases of aggression. I refer to an article by RailTech from last week. At the meeting of the Mobility Committee on 5 October, you said that the number of violence against Securail employees would not have increased. The question arises as to what the situation is for the other staff and categories of staff. What concrete actions will you take to improve the safety of both staff and passengers in the stations and on trains? When I made up my question, I had also asked a partial question about the budgets for Securail in the years to come. However, since the publication of your budget figures, we know that they do not increase. During the previous discussion of the subject, you announced that you would meet shortly afterwards with representatives of the trade union organizations. The independent trade unions certainly had a number of ideas on the table that people themselves put forward to improve the safety of employees. How did these talks go? Does this result in concrete actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u15	Minister, this is already the second time in recent weeks that we have addressed this important issue of the safety of SNCB personnel. It is true that I take advantage of this topical debate to also share my experience as a commuter. SNCB personnel can be seen regularly in highly complicated situations, even verbally. This staff must manage them, whether on trains or on docks. This is a situation that we cannot tolerate. In this regard, a few weeks ago, when I asked you about the issue, the presence of the railway police in the stations had been mentioned. Of course, skills should not be confused. But in October, during the debate in committee on this issue of security for staff, you mentioned the idea of insisting on the urgent need to support, with Mrs Verlinden, the reform of the Duquesne circular. Do you have any news to give us today? You also mentioned the necessary articulation of these functions vis-à-vis Securail. Could you provide us with any information in this regard? I would like to stress the overall real concern of all Members on this fundamental issue, which, as I have already said, is on the agenda for the second time in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u16	Mrs Hanus, this is not the first time that the subject has come to the agenda, both in committee and in plenary. We also discussed this during the discussion of the policy note. This subject requires our full attention and a clear point of view, as I have already indicated at the committee meeting on 5 October. I repeat, aggression is unacceptable. We will never find aggression normal, not against travellers and certainly not against people in public office. Behind every uniform of a train attendant or a Securail employee is a human being, sometimes a mother or a father, who deserves our respect for the essential role he plays in the safety of passengers and the smooth movement of trains. Those people have always let the trains run, even in these difficult covid times. I will therefore strongly condemn any form of aggression. That's what I've said and done in the past. I said this last week and did so after the case in Ottignies, in the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking press and on the social media. Meanwhile, I learned that a new incident occurred last Tuesday. I repeat here loud and clear that my full support goes to the staff. I have asked SNCB to make a complaint in any case of aggression. I also asked SNCB to act as a bourgeois party and to urge the Justice Department, with respect for the separation of powers, to act accordingly. The case in Ottignies is under investigation. SNCB is constantly fighting aggression, both preventive and repressive. Over the past year, the presence of Securail on the trains and in the stations has increased. Along with the federal police, targeted and large-scale control actions are also organised. There's also more camera surveillance. SNCB now has 10,000 security cameras in the stations and trains. Moreover, there has been a reorganisation of the Securail security service since July. It will be discussed with trade unions and staff on 7 and 8 December and will start at the beginning of 2022. In addition, 25 additional Securail agents are recruited. I myself had a constructive meeting with the trade unions in October to talk about increasing aggression. The main points we continue to work on together are, firstly, sufficient staff with the right equipment and good training and, secondly, good coordination with the police forces who need to be sufficiently present and reactive. In addition, I have asked the Advisory Council on Private Security to examine the adequacy of the legislation governing their intervention framework, the division of labour between the police and private security officers, their defences and their uniforms, including the issue of badges. The police remain an essential link in the hierarchy to ensure safety on the railways. The police are not my responsibility, but they are the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. I am always in contact with Annelies Verlinden to try to move forward on the revision of the circular known as Duquesne with the aim of ensuring a clear division of labour between the local police and the railway police for the safety of the stations, on the docks and on the trains. We're working on it, Mr. Arens. Securail's agents are in charge of security, but are not police officers. In addition to these measures, which I took a few months ago and which are being implemented, it is also necessary to have a long-term vision. This will be an important chapter of the future public service contract with SNCB, to be concluded within the year. Ms. Jadin had questions about temporary cameras used for several functions: - when it is necessary to track the flow of passengers in a place not covered by a permanent camera; - to carry out an analysis of a phenomenon on which the corporate security service does not have sufficient information; - to ensure the temporary guarding of a place or property at a distance, for the purpose of deterring incivility; - in order to increase the sense of security. The effectiveness of the first three functions is undeniable. However, it is difficult and too early to measure the deterrent effect of temporary cameras and to draw reliable conclusions. Depending on its use, the use of cameras is based on needs and/or on a risk analysis. With regard to the processing of personal data, this use must remain proportional and necessary; of course, it is a matter of respecting the legislation on the protection of privacy. The aim is not, therefore, to install cameras in all places in a general and indistinct manner. SNCB will continue to use the existing devices, but is considering the purchase of other more manageable devices, which are even better suited to certain specific features of the railway environment. The general objective is always and still to make the train the backbone of our mobility. To that end, all citizens must feel free to choose the train at any time. Of course, rail workers must be protected, for both passengers and staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I would like to ask you to urge your colleague, the Minister of the Interior, to find the railway police in fact, so that there can be commitments not to leave entire regions without the slightest agent. I insist! Don't worry, as far as Parliament is concerned, I will call on the minister to find again enough railway officers in the various offices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u18	Mr President, Mr Arens has raised an important point. It is very important to consult with your colleague in the Interior and to insist on strengthening the staffing framework of the railway police, because they have been understaffing the framework as provided for by law for years. Classical words such as "respect" and "unacceptable" are gradually tired of being heard. Only with some cameras and the recruitment of some staff at Securail, where the honesty commands us to say that some personnel have left Securail, they will not be there. A serious, integrated and comprehensive safety plan will have to be put in place. I am also thinking of internal and external training, because in this area, too, I can tell from the field of work that there are shortcomings. This will have to be done urgently and as a matter of priority in order to keep the problem under control.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u19	An increase of 56% in the first three quarters is huge. I have been a trade union delegate and I think it is important that a risk analysis is carried out: what are the causes of all this aggression and how can we tackle this problem in different areas? The duty of masking is an additional element for the staff, because they now also have to play the police and that provokes a lot of aggression. I hear the staff wants to be more on some lines, with enough people to have support and not be alone. The problem of women in Wallonia would not have been solved with a camera, Minister, because there was no one there. A camera can't help with an incident like this. PVDA-PTB is not only important for cameras, but also for human presence. We keep hammering at counters and opening hours. Human presence is crucial to tackle the problem of aggression. Another problem we see is the abolition of substation chiefs, which often causes problems on the ground. When people are angry, they don't know who to turn to and how to solve their problem. They'll respond to the staff. We must make a global analysis of where the risks are and how they should be addressed. The people who work there must be protected. It's important that they can work safely and go home safely, without risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u20	The counters are still open at the station Ottignies. The aggression took place on the platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u21	There was no one there at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u22	Aggression is unacceptable. We will work on that, but there is no connection to the counters. It is aggression and we do not accept it, but there is no connection to the issue of points of contact.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u23	Mr Minister, a positive point in your answer is that SNCB is now generally bourgeois. We have been asking for this for two years and I am glad that it is finally being applied. The second observation is that Securail's budget is only slightly increasing. You refer to the recruitment of 25 additional staff, which is better than nothing, but I fear it will be a drop on a hot plate. You also refer to the railway police, which is under the custody of your fellow Minister Verlinden. I will be the sausage or Securail, or the railway police or both will be strengthened. There must be more security personnel on the premises. The worst scenario is that you and Minister Verlinden would shift the responsibility to each other. I suggest that you sit down on that in order to find a solution. Thirdly, in your consultation with the trade unions, you dropped the words 'the right equipment'. I noticed that because the trade unions have asked some questions about a change in standard equipment. Should we understand the wording "the right equipment" as a perseverance of the current equipage, or will you make changes within the contours of Securail?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answer. Unfortunately, violence has been on the rise in our society in recent months, both in terms of attacks on public officials and on SNCB staff. As you said, this is unacceptable. It's also a matter of concern that this is an escort who is the target. Trains and stations must remain a safe and secure environment for all, personnel and passengers. Minister, thank you for your commitments in Securail, but, as you said, the answer must be comprehensive with shared action. Finally, no matter who it comes from, the competences are there: the Interior, on the one hand, with the presence of the railway police and, on the other hand, the Justice which ensures correct follow-up of complaints for all phenomena of aggression. We support the actions that are being taken on the repressive side. We also invite work on the preventive component. Campaigns against violence against SNCB staff also incorporating the gender dimension are important and need to be put on the agenda. In this case, the facts occurred in Ottignies. Other phenomena of violence and insecurity are also reported in other cities in Belgium. We call for consultation with local authorities on the subject, without turning the ball over, but to work in concert and in good dialogue with all the actors who can play a role in this matter, from close or far.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u25	Mr President, Minister, the large number of sick and quarantined staff at SNCB forces trains to be abolished. We understand that, but on the ground we hear rumours that this is partly an excuse and that the real problem is too great a shortage of staff. Trains should be abolished because there are no train escorts, train drivers or support staff. For corona really broke through, I already received reports from staff members that trains were abolished by an absent train supervisor or engineer. So that problem occurred before Corona. Minister, how many trains did SNCB abolish in November 2021 due to staff shortages? How many of these were corona-related? How many trains are expected to be abolished in December due to staff shortages? SNCB intends to introduce 5% more trains in 2022. Will that be feasible without additional recruitment? Should SNCB not use more staff on the ground in order to be able to work safely and allow colleagues leave? What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u26	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you noticed this morning, but I was a little late. I missed my train. I thought I was on time at the station, but since yesterday the train leaves four minutes earlier, because there has been a shift following the new timetable, which was introduced this week. On Thursday it was communicated and next week it will be modified on a number of lines, because then there will be the annual adjustment of the timetable, with the additional offer. If the corona measures end, it will be readjusted. I can understand from the system's point of view, from SNCB's point of view, that action had to be taken. We spoke earlier about the staff, who are also getting sick and who are going into quarantine. It is difficult to provide a full train service when a lot of staff fail. So I have every sympathy for that. However, the way in which this is now introduced on some lines defies any imagination, especially among passengers. It's hard to track from a customer perspective. I have already given the example, on my line there are now three changes in a very short time. That's not obvious to a train traveler. There was a shift of half an hour, the IC train would move up for half an hour, which is already difficult for a train traveller to follow. If such changes are to be added to them, they are likely to become too much. Mr President, in what way has SNCB decided which lines or train services are being cancelled? I do not want to be too local, but I would like to give one concrete example. On line 12 between Antwerp and Essen there are two trains. One of them is now being deleted. One would expect it to be the stop train that doesn't stop everywhere and that doesn't run to Roosendaal. However, the others have been removed, which means that one station must be completely rescheduled and that buses must be placed between Essen and Roosendaal. It's very hard to follow. Why did they choose that train and not the other one? How long is it expected that the corona regime will have to be maintained? I know that's hard to say because the virus won't be predicted, but we've learned that lesson over the last few months and years. Nevertheless, I suspect that people hope to be able to return to normal service after Christmas holidays. It is also important to ensure that the withdrawn trains will come back effectively, as some travellers doubt that. Finally, I would like to comment on the communication with the travellers. For travellers from our surroundings I have tried to make an overview of the services, and that is not evident. One often refers to the app, but travelers are usually creatures of habit who have their fixed train hours. It is not obvious to adapt it. I believe that communication in this area could have been clearer, clearer and more customer-friendly. My question to you, Minister, is whether SNCB could not have communicated a little better. The combination of the reduction of the train offer by corona and the additional offer that will arrive next week is very confusing and makes it all very unclear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u27	Minister, the problem is now sufficiently outlined. I particularly wonder what assessment has been made of the budgetary consequences of abolishing these trains. Like Mr Van den Bergh, I am also wondering what parameters will determine which train journeys will be abolished and which will not. I would also like to know whether the disabled rail passengers are offered alternative transport or whether there is any form of commercial or financial compensation for them. Last week I heard you reply to Mr Burton in plenary. Part of your reply then consisted of a reference to the introduction of the new transport schedule with an increase of 4.7 %. I immediately wondered how you could guarantee that this increase in the supply of transport will actually take place, as it is not possible at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u28	Mr President, Minister, the monitoring of the health situation has eluded us in various sectors of society. In this case, the impact of this situation is a further urgent adaptation of SNCB's supply. The context is also the maintenance of service, although telework is strongly encouraged, which deserves to be emphasized. In spite of this, SNCB recently announced that it would abolish trains every day from Monday, 6 December, due, in particular, to quarantine situations for some of its staff. This is a priori a temporary abolition of 120 trains out of a total of 3,800. Can you confirm that? At the same time, SNCB announces a structural reinforcement of its offer from 12 December as part of the transport plan 2020-2023. In this context, we question both the complementarity of the two announcements and the situation of the staff. I will not go back to all the questions raised in the first topical debate, but we nevertheless share some questions about the structural situation of staff and the ability to mobilise staff, particularly in emergency situations such as the pandemic crisis or when supply needs to be strengthened. Minister, is the removal of the 120 trains a temporary one? If so, how long is it planned? What are the functions most affected by the health situation and what measures are envisaged to limit the spread of the virus among staff? How will SNCB strengthen the supply of trains in this context? Are recruitments planned to better manage these critical peaks in the future? It is understood that the health crisis and its consequences could still lead to new emergencies in the coming months and years. We're not safe at this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u29	Thank you for your questions. This will allow me to go back a little further on the phenomenon that you have just described and which was already discussed in plenary on Thursday. Thousands of trains cross our country every day. This is only possible thanks to the continuous commitment and commitment of all railway workers. They are an essential pillar of our rail transport and their well-being is therefore the highest priority for me. Unfortunately, SNCB and its staff are not spared by the covid crisis either. I would like to stress that SNCB is no exception and that all sectors in our society are currently severely affected by the pandemic and its consequences on staff. These consequences are, of course, more tangible for an organisation such as SNCB. In any case, the protection of our public health is more important than anything else. I fully understand the inconveniences for travellers and I regret them because my wish, as you know, is that as many people as possible take the train in the best conditions of comfort and predictability. The situation on the ground today is more than 12% of the rolling staff, i.e. accompaniment or driver, accompaniment or driver, who is unable to work either because they are directly affected by the covid, because they are quarantined or because they are forced to stay at home for childcare. This is why the Steering Committee decided to temporarily suspend – and not delete – certain P trains. I am focusing on the word "suspend" because the idea is to get them back into circulation as soon as possible. This is a series of P trains from 30 November and another series of trains from 6 December, i.e. about 100 trains per day out of a total of 3 800, which makes about 2.5% of the offer. This suspension is forced. This is not a choice of SNCB. It is constrained by illness, the absence of workers and the inability to drive certain trains. It's a choice to have a suspension that's planned. Instead of avoiding last-minute train deletions, Mr. Van den Bergh, the idea is to guarantee workers that the advertised trains will run and thus avoid last-minute cancellations, which also makes it easier to guarantee passenger safety. It is a suspension that is targeted, that is, for each journey, SNCB has ensured that there are enough trains, including advanced trains, but not only, to ensure the mobility of people who continue to travel despite telework. For example, between Antwerp and Brussels, there is a connection of four trains per hour, if I am not mistaken. We have removed one of these four trains per hour by leaving three trains per hour, which is quite acceptable, I think. It's a temporary suspension. It is linked to the duration of unavailability of staff. As I said, it was an option that was taken by the SNCB Management Committee, which informed me by mail. I have responded to the SNCB by insisting on a few elements, namely that regular monitoring of the situation be organised and that I be informed of it, and that complete and transparent information be given to travellers on the evolution of the offer. The first messages sent to subscribers said "because of the covid, we delete trains". The passengers then said: "Because of the covid, more trains are needed for us to be fewer on the trains". The correct sentence is "because of the consequences of the covid on our staff". I have therefore asked SNCB to have a precise communication, so that there is a useful understanding in the traveller's head. I asked SNCB to resume normal service as soon as possible. This is a temporary interruption, a suspension. To the extent possible, the maximum capacity in terms of number of seats per train in cars must also be ensured, in order to avoid at best concentrations of passengers in certain cars. All of this, in the circumstances that are known today. I will, of course, continue to monitor the situation on a day-to-day basis. I have discussed, in the context of a previous question on recovery, the fact that the SNCB has faced, in the recent past, a significant wave of pension departures, linked to the age pyramid of its staff. Major departures to the pension, need to recruit, need to find the right profiles and train them. For the time being, the recruitment delay is being reduced. Nevertheless, despite the fact that budgets are entered each year in order to be able to recruit, SNCB and Infrabel do not always manage to find the necessary number of candidates. That is why there are campaigns to encourage young people to choose a career on the rail. Every time I can talk about it, I speak positively about it because it is about careers in the service of the public, with a form of job guarantee, with a lot of movement, opportunities for evolution that can be exciting. In 2020, SNCB was able to recruit 1,264 full-time equivalents and we used the entire recruitment budget. That's positive. For this year, SNCB expects to be able to recruit 1,100 people. The same will be true for 2022. Recruitment of technical profiles in workshops remains difficult. These profiles are very much in demand, with training courses that are not sufficiently valued. SNCB and HR Rail are making every effort to succeed in this challenge and increase the number of staff on operational teams. Infrabel made the same effort, especially with the creation of Infrabel Academy, which is a very beautiful training tool. That is why, supported by the government, I am fully committed to investment in rail and rail personnel. However, turning the tide does not happen overnight. Last Thursday, I concluded on a positive note my answer to Mr Burton, which I can develop here. Indeed, thanks to the clear OPEX budget, for which I have fought, which will enter into force from 12 December through the new transport plan, the supply of trains will benefit from a structural increase of 5%, i.e. an additional 1,000 trains per week, mainly for S connections around Antwerp – notably from Hasselt and therefore Limburg –, Liège, Charleroi and Brussels. This is an option that we developed with the Board of Directors of SNCB a few months ago, despite the uncertainties. I insisted that the transport plan be carried out. Specific commitments have been made, involving training of attendants – which takes about six months – as well as drivers – which obviously takes a little longer. In short, these commitments have come into effect. Simply, as is the case in other branches of society, we are victims of covid. In summary, the supply of trains and the number of attendants and drivers has increased structurally. I hope that the covid will go as it happened, so that in March, this plan can work 100%. On the other hand, we are trying to limit the disadvantages of a temporary and restrictive reduction for travellers. As I have already done, I would like to thank very warmly the SNCB workers who have been providing train service from the outset, including during the lockdown, in circumstances that are not obvious to anyone. So I don't see how things can be better organized. Again, I apologize for the inconvenience to travellers. I sincerely hope that they are temporary and that we are moving towards structural improvement. I'm working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u30	Minister, we thank you for your answer, which can be described as detailed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u31	Minister, we naturally understand the difficult situation. We understand that a lot of people are sick, but we hear in the workplace that people feel that this is being used as an excuse for the structural problems that have been there for a long time. I'll keep hammering on that. The structural staff shortage was already there and, of course, this situation has made it much worse. You're talking about recruitment. I am glad that you will recruit people, but we must above all ensure that the people who are there remain. I do worry that people will leave because of the workload and the difficult situation. We must keep the people who are there and provide additional staff. We are now in a vicious circle with regard to the deficit. People stop because they don't like it anymore and then new people have to be recruited. There will have to be a long-term structural solution so that working conditions are good and people remain good. There will also need to be additional staff. In theory, there must be 5 % more trains, but in practice there are fewer trains. We are in an incomprehensible situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Firstly, all of us do have contact with SNCB staff and also with the management. I believe that everyone has a warm heart for those staff and recognises that they are doing their best. We are pleased that we can count on them to continue to guarantee train service in difficult circumstances. Secondly, of course, the covid crisis also affects SNCB. As in many other companies, there are sick people and people are quarantined. There's a lot of failure. You mentioned more than 12%. I hear that the fall-out in the depot in Antwerp is even up to 20% on some days. In such a situation, it is impossible to guarantee the full provision of services. So I can understand that. One thing for which I have much less understanding is the way that became and is made worldly. It is not just about this crisis measure but about communication in general. I could also talk about communication in crisis situations, but that is something else. Thirdly, the adjustment of the timetable that would come into effect next week is also very poorly communicated this time. A number of years ago, there was a problem in which schools along certain railway lines were not aware in good time of changes in the train service, which made it difficult for them to get their pupils to the right hours in the schools from December onwards. This would be better dealt with in the future, but this year it is not better. Another change in the timetable is planned for next weekend, but communication to schools has not improved. There's gonna be an expansion of the offer, on that one line. On our line, this has the effect of shifting the IC train for half an hour. I support this expansion and shift, but they are annoying to the travellers. Travellers are creatures of habit, as I said before. If their train shifts for half an hour, it's annoying. I was prepared for a lot of protests from travelers anyway because their train shifts for half an hour. On top of that, however, there is now a double change, due to the abolition of the S train and the shift of the IC train, which has to stop at another station. I myself had to try to put the new train regulation into a scheme, the one that has been in force since yesterday, is changed next week and will be adjusted again if the corona measures stop. People are now saying that they can't get out, that it's too complex. I have informed journalists that they should take a look at this train system, but they say that they will not write about it because it is far too complex. So there's something wrong with the communication to the travelers. This is yet another example of that. It's not the first time we've talked about communication to travellers. There are still major steps to be taken in this regard. When it comes to the railways, we still think far too much from the train system, especially about making the trains run, while the passengers still come in second place. I'm very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u33	I thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u34	Minister, the context is indeed singular. I thank you for reassuring us and for confirming that the limitation of the offer is temporary and that this is in no way a pure and simple removal of certain trains. Suspend the movement of certain trains, it is also not to increase the workload of the staff that remains mobilized. When talking about the well-being of staff, this must be taken into account. You have also confirmed the 5% structural increase in supply, despite the situation we are experiencing today. For the province of Liège, for example, the offer will be more attractive both during the day and in the evening. It is hoped that after the peak of the epidemic, current and future users of SNCB will be able to take full advantage of this enhanced offer. It is important to make this known. We need an attractive rail with equally attractive communication. It would be interesting to discuss this issue again in the coming months. Indeed, a 5% increase in supply is huge. It will meet many needs throughout the territory. However, the situation of staff remains challenging, even outside the health crisis. Having had the opportunity to get in touch with the workers' representatives, this is a conclusion that I have been asked to draw. In order to continue on the path of our ambitions, namely more offers for more travellers, we must preserve and strengthen the human framework at the level of the basic professions. Mrs Vindevoghel, we are faced with a particular problem with the age pyramid, a problem that the minister mentioned earlier. This is a problem at present, but the situation at this level will tend to improve in the coming years. The budgets are there, but the framework is not fulfilled, which raises questions. We therefore call on SNCB to address this particular issue by encouraging dialogue between railway entities and staff, of course, with the Minister's support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u35	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer. I have noted that this is a temporary abolition following the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u36	A suspension, not a deletion, says the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u37	Yes, a suspension. Having the chance to combine the functions of deputy and mayor, I assure you that, even in my commune, services are reduced as a result of quarantine and covid cases. All this is easily understood. Do everything to make the situation structurally better and make the train more attractive, I insist!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u38	Parliament has the last word. However, I thank colleagues for this interesting exchange. I also want to speak to Mr. Van den Bergh that I share his concern about communication and its changes. Without revealing the crown, this was the subject of discussions between my firm and SNCB. I have some updated figures since the start of the discussion on operational unavailability at the beginning of the week (often the situation worsens at the end of the week): 8% of drivers with peaks of up to 10% in Charleroi and 14% of attendants with peaks of up to 20% in Brussels. In conclusion, in Brussels this represents 1/5, which explains the exceptional option that had to be taken. Nevertheless, we are moving towards a structural increase in the number of trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u39	Question No 55021020C by Mrs Mélissa Hanus and question No 55021427C by Mrs Sophie Rohonyi are transformed into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Roggeman replied to Mr 55021194C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u40	Mr President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u41	Mr Roggeman, there are vending machines in about 20 stations. I'll get you the list in writing. Those vending machines are operated by bpost. SNCB aims to equip some 100 stations with vending machines in the future. This is part of SNCB's mission to connect the station environment to the station, to extend the service for passengers and to create mobility hubs. SNCB has recently completed an investigation in which it has actively examined and assessed the market. In 2022, SNCB will publish a new market consultation. Bpost pays a minimum fee to SNCB through the current framework contract between SNCB and Bpost. SNCB, as an autonomous State, is obliged to respect the legal principles of administrative law in relation to proportionality, equality and transparency. The interested providers should therefore always submit a dossier, taking into account different allocation criteria, including but not limited to a proposed remuneration based on a realistic business plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I had hoped to get an overview not only of stations where there is already a vending machine, but also of stations where there are plans to install an vending machine. Do you have that overview, or is it a business secret these days?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u43	Mr Roggeman, that is no secret; I would prefer to give you the list in writing rather than orally. I can name 20 stations here on the committee. That's a good exercise for a French speaker. However, I am not sure that this will add much to the quality of our debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u44	The question was tabled in September; I would like to refer to its written version.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u45	The bike is gaining popularity. As policy makers, we must support all measures that promote the use of bicycles. It was therefore time for Belgium to draw up a federal cycling action plan, like most other European countries. At the end of September, the federal government decided on my initiative for Be Cyclist, the first federal action plan to promote the bicycle. It is the first time that a federal government in Belgium has made bicycle promotion a common and coordinated objective. All ministers and secretaries of state come forward with concrete bicycle promotion measures for their powers. I have talked about this in the context of my policy paper. Be Cyclist runs from this year to 2024, has measurable targets and is evaluated every year in September. I do not need to repeat that I strongly believe in good cooperation with the Regions, whatever the plan in question. By joining forces between the federal government and the Regions, we want to get a dynamic cycling policy on track. This cooperation benefits cycling, just like the many Belgians who do daily work or private trips by bike. The Regions are involved in the design and implementation of the federal cycling action plan in two ways. Firstly, they were informed of my approach at the Inter-Ministerial Mobility Conference on 15 June last. Secondly, I would like to support their regional cycling policy through regular consultations and cooperation with colleagues from the regions. With regard to your question about the division of powers, certain actions of the plan are clearly federal issues, such as the SNCB's cycling strategy, the fight against theft of bicycles and the promotion of bicycle use by the employees of the various FODs and PODs. Other actions, including the revision of the road code or the development of the railway cycle routes, are rather shared competences for efficiency reasons. An action by Be Cyclist concerns the facilitation of cycling routes along railways. As landowner through Infrabel and SNCB, the federal government can indirectly facilitate these highways along the railways. The aim is to raise awareness among the two railway companies in order to make the work already done visible by creating a map on which all the bike motorways are visualized, and to speed up the progress of the files in the scaffolding. The essence for me is to jointly develop positive policies for our fellow citizens, as in this case for the promotion of the bicycle, rather than regard the division of powers as an obstacle.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u46	Minister, you have spoken for a very long time, but you have not answered any of my six questions. I suspect you have simply answered the questions that Mr Raskin would have asked. That is why I will submit my questions in writing, because this was a waste of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u47	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Roggeman's 55021208C was already discussed during the discussion of the policy paper. Mr Arens, you have a question under item 11 of our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u48	Mr President, if the minister agrees to give me the written answer to my question no. 55021322C, I propose to turn it into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u49	I agree!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u50	I'll come get the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u51	Debates of the European Parliament 55021463C) by Mrs Verhaert and others: Mr Toventors' 55022461 had already been replied to when the Minister's policy paper was discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u52	In the meantime, the app has been modified.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u53	Mrs Buyst is not present for her question No. 55021869C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u54	Mr President, I would like to refer to the text of the reply, but of course that is not possible. Mrs Verhaert, Mr Roggeman, for her travelers, SNCB is carrying out tests and innovations to simplify the purchase process for tickets. In addition to its existing sales channels, SNCB is considering introducing a new system to purchase train tickets, i.e. a system that works with geolocalisation. This is one of the projects, conceived and tested by the Innovation Lab. To test the system, SNCB will offer four products, namely the standard ticket, the youth ticket, the weekend ticket and the senior ticket. This innovative technology wants to make traveling by train even easier. With that user-friendly application, the traveller can check-in when approaching the station or platform and check-out as soon as he reaches his destination. Thanks to the GPS data, the journey is detected from start to finish and the traveller automatically receives a final bill paid through the app after the trip. The best ticket is offered automatically. The customer does not have to decide in advance which ticket is best suited. The application automatically does that after the journey has ended. A second test phase has already begun. I would point out that this answer dates back to September. This phase will take several months. During this period, SNCB will evaluate the user experience with the system. SNCB started the second test phase with 500 people to gradually reach a maximum of 10,000 test subjects, for which it launched a call for applications. Depending on the number of tenders, SNCB makes a selection in order to ensure a representative test audience. The test subjects automatically receive the best rate based on their profile. For this test with up to 10,000 customers and for the period of one year, SNCB pays 150,000 euros. The participants in the test are selected according to a number of criteria: motivation, payment method used (credit card and in the future Bancontact), users who buy tickets (e.g. no customers who always travel the same route and therefore do not have to buy a separate ticket). The preference is also given to test subjects with different age profiles and different regions. SNCB lets me know that there are a lot of technical possibilities to prevent fraud. They are always specific to the technology used. The train guide can of course also scan the ticket as he does for another ticket. The FTQ Lab application for mobile phones can be downloaded on a voluntary basis and respects the privacy of users. It has been designed with strict compliance with European GDPR rules. The limitation period for contractual claims relating to passenger transport by train shall be one year. Until the end of that period, the GPS data shall be retained in order to resolve any disputes or cases of fraud. It is FAIRTIQ AG, the technology supplier and app used for the sale of tickets, which acts as the controller for the processing. For the processing by SNCB there is no residual high risk for the persons whose personal data are processed. As a result, no prior consultation as defined in Article 36 of the General Data Protection Regulation is required. Between 18 January and 30 September, SNCB received 4.478 comments from its customers on the new app. It is important to put this number in perspective. It corresponds to about 0.2 % of the total number of tickets sold by SNCB through the new app during that period. The responses can be divided into two categories. On the one hand, there have been technical problems with the backend of the application, making it sometimes unavailable or causing delays in the delivery of tickets. On the other hand, the new application does not offer the same functionality as the old application, which leads to questions for some customers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u55	During the test phase, certain functionalities are only available in a separate app. After the test phase, SNCB will consider whether the functionalities will be integrated into the current app. Its operation is continuously evaluated and this leads to new releases on a regular basis. Both technical and functional tests are carried out by internal testers and a customer test panel. The suggestions from the stores are also closely followed. There is already a cooperation, as BeTrains uses open data from SNCB. However, the functionalities offered by the SNCB app are not comparable to those offered by BeTrains. Therefore, a more far-reaching cooperation between the two applications is not self-evident.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I'll read it again, because I didn't understand everything. I only welcome the fact that certain developments are leading to simplification for the traveller and that he is paying the lowest price. I look forward to evaluating this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We agree that this is an important tool in the digital age. SNCB also pursues a policy of digitisation with this app as an important cornerstone. I note the registration of complaints about technical problems, about reworked functions compared to the previous version of the app. As I understand it, the test on user experience has yet to be started. It seems strange to me to do that after the renewal of the app. Wouldn't it be better to test and evaluate first and then completely renew the app? You say that there is continuous evaluation and improvement, so we look forward to improving this instrument in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u58	Mr President, this question was also tabled in September 2021. However, it is likely to be very topical at the moment in view of the current situation in the vaccination centres that are being set up or restarted everywhere. That is why I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u59	Mrs Verhaert, every metaphor in which the train is used, especially in a positive sense, always gives me great pleasure. I repeat that SNCB is not the initiator of vaccination centres in the stations, but it responds to the requests by making space available. In this way, it contributes to the social effort to increase the percentage of vaccinees among the population, which, of course, I fully support in my capacity as Minister. All applications by the public authorities for the provision of vaccination centres by SNCB are analysed. An application for Jette's station was answered positively, which means that a vaccination centre has now been established since the beginning of November 2021. In Wallonia, SNCB received two applications for the Charleroi and Binche stations. Those locations weren't confirmed. In conclusion, SNCB responded positively to the Brussels-Capital Region's application to extend the vaccination centres in Brussels-North and Brussels-South until the end of 2021. Since 4 December 2021, both vaccination centres are also open on Saturdays and Sundays. They're open to everyone, without an appointment. For the third dose, this extension applies only to residents of the Brussels-Capital Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, I am pleased that SNCB is also contributing to the maximum possible vaccination of people. This is necessary in the current crisis. So I'm glad she's working positively on that story.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u61	Questions Nos 55021481C and 55021481C have been answered. Van den Bergh, No 55022023C and No 55023151C by Mrs Buyst, No 55021671C and No 55022066C by Mr Vandenbroucke, No 55023003 by Mrs Jadin, No 55023147 by Mr Parent on "Zero Vision" during the general discussion. If no one asks for the floor, I consider that the answers have been given. Since Mrs Rohonyi was absent, her question No 55021560C was not applicable. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Roggeman has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u62	Mr President, Minister, these are two linked questions from myself. It was actually an oral question and a written question. However, since the answer to the written question was not forthcoming, I was obliged to convert it to an oral question. A climate march took place in Brussels on 10 October 2021. In response to another written question, you indicated that SNCB had put in 4 additional trains and 51 trains with an additional offer that day. An additional offer in the context of events and large traffic flows is set out in the management contract with SNCB, in the sense that they must be legally non-lossful. Since it is Parliament's job to monitor compliance with the management contract, it seems logical to me that we should also receive figures from you, but to my regret and amazement you did not answer my last written question on this subject. That is why I repeat my questions here, Minister. Similar questions were answered in the past. That is why today I would like to have an explanation of the details of the additional offer made by SNCB. How much are the costs for SNCB to catch these additional trains? What is the turnover for SNCB by inserting the additional trains on 10 October 2021? Can you give an estimate of the profit or loss resulting from it? Based on what criteria does SNCB decide to introduce additional trains for a manifestation? It should also be noted that SNCB's policy for such events is not unambiguous. For the climate march, SNCB took over the logo of the manifestation. One posted a link to the website of the manifestation. An explanation was given for the event. This seems to be in contrast to other demonstrations. I refer to the recent demonstration against the corona measures, where 10,000 demonstrators were more present. I am not expressing a value assessment of these demonstrations, but I note that an additional offer is being introduced for one manifestation and not for the other. Minister, on what basis is this happening? What are the criteria for this? Do you think it is appropriate that there should also be active communication in the deployment of additional offers, including promotional material on the SNCB website? Should we not do this either for everything, or for nothing, so that a certain objective standard is applied? I would also have liked an overview of the events for which SNCB has communicated through its own channels. Finally, do you think, in the light of the above, that there is a need for some sort of code of ethics or directive on the handling of subjects of philosophical, philosophical and political influence, so that there is a certain objective line in it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u63	Mr President, the problem has already been outlined. I had to observe that SNCB actively promoted participation in the climate march in Brussels on 10 October. For example, the Marketing & Sales service sent an e-mail with top advertising for the climate march, indicating location and time and the accompanying text: "Join the climate march on...". There were also all kinds of links to political side organisations, such as trade unions, socialist mutualities and activist Extinction Rebellion. On the SNCB website there was also communication about the climate march, visitors could click on the logo and link of Back to the Climate, where all kinds of promotions related to the climate case were read. Minister, do you think it is appropriate that SNCB should actively promote an event of a philosophical nature such as the climate march? If not, why not? If so, why? Was the decision to promote the climate march taken and supported by SNCB's entire board of directors? If so, was there unanimity within that board of directors? If not, why not and who made the decision? On the basis of what criteria does SNCB decide to grant support and promotion to a specific manifestation? Is there an objective regulatory framework for this? Finally, will a similar practice be used in the future for other events? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u64	Mr President, Mr Toventors, Mr Roggeman, these are interesting questions. In major events such as festivals, performances or events, SNCB, at the request of the organisers, makes efforts to transport a large mass of passengers in a short time. Better they take the train than the car or a car. SNCB also provides additional trains to cope with occasional and large passenger flows, such as to the coast during the summer. In exceptional cases, SNCB also offered special tariffs in the past in order to assess the required transport capacity on the different lines as well as possible in advance. In doing so, SNCB had two objectives, namely to minimise the negative impact on other rail passengers, both with regard to the purchase of the ticket and transport, and to ensure safety in the event of high concentrations of passengers in stations and trains. SNCB stresses that the granting of a special tariff is therefore not for proportionate reasons but for practical reasons. Moreover, when a special tariff was granted, the use of the equipment had to be fully cost-effective. In the last five years, SNCB has only granted a special rate three times for a manifestation. Since the end of 2019, SNCB has as little as possible to deviate from the regular range of products. Therefore, for the climate manifestation of 10 October, SNCB did not offer a special tariff. The participants were encouraged to take the train to Brussels, with a weekend ticket at 50% discount. That's a standard discount. In doing so, SNCB promoted the use of trains, just as it offers many ideas for getting off by train on the website. Mr Troasts, all the information on SNCB's weekend ticket and how it can be purchased is available on the SNCB website. To transport the extra passengers in all safety and comfort, 51 trains were reinforced. A limited number of additional trains were also installed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u65	Mr Minister, I have not actually heard any answers to my numerous questions: not about turnover, nor about the financial impact, nor about the criteria on the basis of which it is decided to provide an additional offer. My questions about the opportunity of a deontological code and so on remained unanswered. What I find most striking is that you still don't provide financial data. You yourself rightly said that the use of additional rolling stock should be cost-effective. If, as a policymaker, you do not answer questions about the cost coverage of that additional offer, how can we, as a Parliament, fulfil our constitutional duty to monitor that management contract? You're making it impossible for us to do that. Nor have you motivated why we should not see these figures. I therefore find your answer disappointing and doubt that it is in line with the legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u66	I can only agree wholeheartedly with Mr Roggeman. Nor have I received any answers to my questions; nothing really is answered here. It is said that there has been promotion for the use of trains, but actually I see more promotion for the climate issue in it. For example, financial criteria and decision-making powers are not mentioned at all. I honestly wonder if there's any point in asking questions here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u67	Mrs Bury and Mr De Smet are not present for their questions. 55021750C and 55022095C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u68	Mr President, I would also like to refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u69	Mr President, I thank you for giving me the time to welcome Mr Vajda's first question to this Committee on Mobility. The current debate on rising energy prices shows how important the issue of the energy transition has become. The current rise in prices affects fossil energy sources. This confirms the great urgency of the shift to renewable energy sources, which are the only ones whose prices have fallen considerably in the last ten years and which remain independent of geopolitical circumstances and international markets. We must recognize that the train is, after the bike, the most energy-efficient mode of transport. SNCB is firmly committed to seeking ways to further reduce its energy consumption. In doing so, it makes two strikes with one stone: it becomes even more efficient and more ecological. 80% of SNCB's energy consumption is intended to allow trains to run, while 20% is intended for its buildings. SNCB is trying to reduce its energy consumption year after year, in order to contribute to a better environment. In 2020, she endorsed the ambition of the International Railway Union (UIC) to be CO2 neutral by 2050. To achieve this, she started to measure her CO2 footprint based on her current energy consumption and the purchased energy mix. In the section on sustainability in the annual report on the website you will find a lot of figures on the energy consumption within SNCB. SNCB and Infrabel together buy energy through public procurement. SNCB is currently considering the effects of current rising energy prices in the short and long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u70	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is a fact that we are not responsible for the cost of energy and that solutions are certainly to be found in the ever-increasing use of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u71	Minister, you have not answered all my questions. Maybe I should ask them anyway, even if I don't know if that's gonna do a lot of good. If you want to be CO2 neutral by 2050, there is still a lot of work to be done. I just didn't get an answer to some of my questions. Maybe I'll put them back in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u72	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u73	Mrs Vindevoghel, with regard to the evaluation of the Coast Express, I can give you the following information. About 650,000 passengers took the train to the coast last summer. On average, 2% of them used the option to book via the Coast Express. The average capacity utilisation rate of the Coastal Express to be reserved was 4%. Most travellers reserve the outward journey, but not the return journey. Studies were carried out throughout the summer period and there was great satisfaction among travellers about the reservation system. On the basis of the figures, we have to say that the reservation system does not meet the expectations of most travellers. They see a lack of flexibility and a large proportion of travellers expect certain stops on the route to the sea. On the basis of that evaluation, SNCB has recently decided not to provide a reservation system for 2022. However, I would like to stress that I will continue to work with SNCB to ensure that the train is accessible to all, especially to people with disabilities, so that no one is left out. The Coast Express itself will be driving again in the summer of next year. Additional trains can be used in good weather. From next year there will also be a Coast Express from Liège to De Panne, but without a reservation system. During the autumn holidays from 30 October to 7 November, Infrabel continued to work on the renewal of the infrastructure. As a result of this work, the train traffic was adjusted between Ostend and Bruges. A solution has been sought in which passengers are least affected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u74	Minister, that is important news. We were never in favour of reservation, because we believe that it should be a right to take a train at any time. So there is an improvement. However, in my questions I also asked a question about the consequences for Securail, because we were concerned that the Securail system would remove employees at the expense of other places. You didn't really answer that question. Has the fact that more people had to be used for the reserved trains had no impact?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u75	Mrs Vindevoghel, I am not speaking about the past, but there is no reservation system for the future. So there's no need for Securail agents in the stations to organize the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u76	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u77	Mr President, part of my answer is in Dutch because there was a joint question from Mr Roggeman. 27 stations are currently equipped with Wi-Fi. SNCB considers that good mobile coverage is preferable because of low subscription costs and ease of use. The average time a customer spends in the station is an important parameter to determine whether a free internet connection via a wireless network should be offered. There is no choice for the installation of Wi-Fi in trains as this would entail very high running costs. The reception of the gsm signal in cars can be considerably improved by the use of special glazing by means of a technique consisting of laser cutting part of the metal layer of the glazing of rolling stock. SNCB plans to use this specific glazing on part of its IC park. For M7 cars, the use of this glazing is planned for deliveries from the end of 2022, and for M6 cars, the use of this glazing is planned for the major overhaul of the equipment from the end of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u78	Minister, thank you for your answer. This type of technology is very interesting for long connections during which one has to work on the train. I am thinking of the one I borrow daily from Huy, as well as our friends from Luxembourg and Campine. Thank you for the detailed figures. The use is expected from next year; I welcome this announcement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u79	The next item is the question by Mr Josy Arens on the savings on the operating allocation of Infrabel, question No 55021818C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u80	Mr President, I turn this question into a written question if the minister agrees to answer me in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u81	Mr Arens, I agree. I'll give you the answer tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u82	Mr President, Mr Parent, the terrible floods we have experienced in Belgium have a considerable impact on rail and more generally on the mobility of everyone. In this regard, mobility around the ardent City has been and remains particularly complex. From 15 October, a traffic band was reopened to traffic in each direction in the Cointe Tunnel. Previously, traffic was impossible in this tunnel, which was important for the mobility of Belgian cars. This reopening should facilitate mobility in and around Liège for those who do not take the train. As early as August, I was in contact with the various actors involved, namely the city of Liège and the Walloon Minister for Mobility, my excellent colleague Philippe Henry, in order to find mobility solutions in the run-up to the school year. That is why, together with SNCB, I have put in place a series of measures such as the free parking of the Ans train station, the extension of the car park of the Angleur train station or the Free Solidarity route available on request for anyone affected by the floods. Infrabel's teams have also worked hard to restore the various sections of line 37 between Liège and Pepinster. As I mentioned earlier, parking policy is developing in a competitive environment. SNCB does not wish to publish precise data by car park. However, since September, SNCB has noted that the occupancy rate of its stations' car parks is rising again. In my opinion, the answer dates from before the new telework obligation. Concerning the specific case of the Ans car park, the temporary free parking stop on 18 October following the partial reopening of traffic in the Cointe tunnel. By reducing car parking and increasing the number of parking spaces for bicycles, SNCB's intention is to reduce car congestion and promote modal shift to less polluting and active modes. In parallel, SNCB continues to develop rail supply around major cities like Liège, specifically at my request as part of the extension of the implementation of the transport plan. Thus, on 12 December, the train between Waremme and Liège will be extended on weekdays to Seraing and Flémalle-Haute and its frequency will be increased to two trains per hour. This is good news for mobility in Liège. I have no doubt that you, like me, are happy about it, Mr. Parent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u83	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am indeed pleased with the strengthening of the S supply from Waremme and therefore from the district of Huy-Waremme and the extension to Flemalle, which will increase the supply in the Liege region. With regard to parking policy, I regret the lack of data from SNCB. This is important information. While a problem did arise during the flood crisis, mobility in and around Liège is a structural problem. Therefore, the responses that SNCB was able to provide during this crisis would merit a lasting study as part of a local and regional mobility strategy. Mobility is a problem in Liège. This problem is obviously not the only fact that SNCB is trying to find solutions. However, I hope that the dialogue can be strengthened between the partners, namely the regional authorities, the city and SNCB, in order to continue to build an ambitious mobility policy to decongest the city, which is in great need of it, especially at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u84	Minister, I would like to highlight this issue because it is a real problem that we are living in where the windows are being removed. I know you're thinking that you've already answered this question several times and that there's nothing to change. At one point, minister, you were a member of Parliament. You must, together with parliamentarians and citizens, fight for SNCB to understand that if it wants to encourage citizens to get back on the train, it is not necessary to abolish services such as these. It is often believed that only the elderly are punished. Lately, I was on a train station platform, where a very young traveller couldn't get his ticket to get on the train. He got on the train and, because he didn't have a ticket when he got on the train and so he had to buy a ticket inside the train, he was punished! I aim here at all the windows of the country, but above all four windows in the province of Luxembourg: Marbehan, Bertrix, Virton and Gouvy. I cannot quote the Tintigny station or the Attert station since unfortunately there is no station in these communes, and if there were any, the windows would also be removed! Blague aside, Minister, I would like to urge you to fight to maintain a minimum of human presence. Without a human presence, this becomes totally unacceptable, and you do not in any way favour the resumption of the train by the citizens. I really expect a positive response from you, otherwise we will have to organize demonstrations to make you understand the importance of this human presence in each of our stations and in each of our windows.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u85	Mr President, Minister, I cannot say better than Mr Arens. You know PVDA keeps knocking on that nail. We supported the actions in Jette, Ronse and Mariembourg, but there are more people than we think who can't buy a ticket from a vending machine. They represent at least 10% of travellers. Many colleagues here have often said that l'être humain is so important and that we must ensure that human contact is possible and that people can ask questions. We really do not understand why all these counters are closed. Do you still support SNCB's decision to close those counters? Nine out of ten SNCB stations will no longer have a point of contact. Why do windows not fit in with your vision of mobility? Does SNCB have any plans to close any more counters? Will SNCB announce or implement window closures in 2022? Do you support the actions of the people? Both travellers and navetteurs.be and the trade unions are opposed to the window closures. We have brought a lawsuit from the point of view of discrimination. People feel discriminated against because they are unable to use those vending machines and will therefore no longer take the train. Would you like to reconsider that decision? How will you ensure that people can continue to use the counters?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u86	Mr Arens, I will repeat here my answer to the general discussion. It's a solid, reliable, expanded transport offer – what I'm working on – that will encourage people to take the train. As you mentioned, a living presence in the stations is also an important element on which I am working. On 9 February, the SNCB Board of Directors – which had decided to close 44 windows – accepted the beacons that I had requested to put in place: on the one hand, the implementation with the local authorities concerned of partnership agreements with a view to maintaining a living presence in stations where a window closure is planned; on the other hand, the maintenance of all the stations concerned open and accessible to passengers in the best possible conditions of safety and comfort with, where appropriate, an extension of the opening hours; and, on the other hand, the taking of additional measures on the Belgian network as a whole and wherever possible in order to combat the digital divide, facilitate the accessibility of all the public to the train and extend the accompanying measures initially provided for by the SNCB in the light of the health crisis. For the past 10 months, this transition period has enabled SNCB to inform travellers about the alternatives and accompanying measures in place but above all to implement my requests. On 16 November, the SNCB Board of Directors took stock of this initiative to bring life to the station. Since February, almost 100 meetings have been organised with the cities and municipalities concerned to explore the possibilities of partnership and allocation. During these meetings, a number of municipalities asked for this process to start with a call for ideas before announcing an allocation. This has been done: 15 calls for ideas and 8 market consultations were published in June and July 2021. Many local and diverse activities were proposed. These are activities of general interest of a social nature, such as in Jette or Leuze, or of service to the population, as in Gouvy. Active mobility activities such as Lede, Ninove or Tielt, commercial activities such as Ans, Opwijk or Ternat. The list is not exhaustive. As agreed and as explicitly requested by the Minister of Mobility, in the case of non-profit activities, only management and operating costs are claimed. I really prefer non-profit activities rather than completely empty stations. Travellers are at the heart of my policy as Minister of Mobility and it is therefore essential for me to ensure their comfort and safety. This is why all the waiting rooms and the sanitary facilities available at the 44 stations concerned are open from 1 April until at least 8 p.m., which is often longer than when the windows were opened. They are of course heated during this winter. Since 1 November, the recruitment of 8 additional full-time equivalents at Securail has enabled additional patrols to be organized at the 44 stations concerned. The buildings are also cleaned three to five times a week. Assistance for persons with reduced mobility is maintained at stations which already guaranteed this service in the past. To enable everyone to use rail in their journeys, it is also important to accompany people in the necessary steps and to combat the digital divide. That is why we continue to discuss with bpost for practical solutions. Since December 1, a test has been conducted in Saint-Ghislain and Liedekerke to allow SNCB travellers to go to the post office to help complete a subscription application form or to maintain certain discount cards. For the rest, a future public service contract is being negotiated. This negotiation was to be concluded in 2022. I will ensure that this public service contract includes an increased ambition of service to all audiences through specific obligations regarding reception at the station. These goals are sorely lacking today. It's a lever that I wanted to be able to activate but it wasn't there and it has to be reversed. That is why we are working at live stations, including in stations that were closed prior to the February decision. There is a wealth to be valued and used for the benefit of passengers, in addition to a high-performance and enhanced train service – which is the first demand for passengers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u87	Minister, thank you for your response, with which I agree in part. I know that it is not easy for a minister with SNCB under his supervision to press for the board to decide something other than what has been decided. With what you're putting in place, it's new occupants who will find themselves where these old windows were. Have you asked these new occupants to give, for example, a hand to travellers who would not find themselves there and would have difficulty acquiring tickets to automatons? It's a bit too bad the minister doesn't listen to me! Yet this is an important issue. It would be regrettable if these new occupants were not familiar with the operation of these aircraft. I also very much regret that those who do not succeed in the operation are being punished on the train because they do not have a ticket. I can't stand it! Excuse me for being a little hard! But, for God's sake, as an ecological minister, you can't accept that either! You must see the human aspect but, unfortunately, you do not see it! So I expect another answer from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u88	Mr Arens, you said last time that you are more ecologist than the Minister, perhaps you are. We're gonna keep knocking on that nail. After all, it is not because there will be other services in the stations, that people will be helped with that. Those other services cannot tell people which ride they take best or can't give them a subscription. They are not qualified or capable of doing so. The desk clerk is crucial to us. Why not do the opposite and give the desk clerk more tasks? You are right when you say that these people have too little to do now, but let them take on other tasks. Expand their task package instead of reducing it. Human presence is very important to us, we are not going to solve it. We'll get back to you next week. After all, we have tabled a resolution because we hear too many concerns in the workplace and on the ground that people need help, and so the desk staff are very important to help people take the train and give them any subscriptions. I saw on the news that people from Mariembourg should now go to Charleroi for their subscription! I wonder what we're doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u89	Question No 55022119C by Mr Daniel Senesael is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u90	Mr Vandenput is not here. I shall therefore give the floor to Mr Toventors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u91	Mr President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u92	Mr Toventos, there is an ambition to replace short-haul flights with credible rail alternatives. In this sense, the government has recently decided to impose an entry fee for short-haul flights. The study aimed at analysing the possibilities of replacing certain short-haul flights to and from Belgian airports with international trains has just been completed. My cabinet analyses the results of the study, which was carried out on behalf of the FOD. The study will soon be available on the website of the FOD.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u93	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u94	Mr President, I refer again to the written version.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u95	Mr Toventors, on 24 October 2021 there was no Securail agent on board the relevant train 3139 Antwerp-Luttre. The figures on the basis of minutes and notifications at the Security Operations Center do not show any security problem in the Mechelen-Nekkerspoel station. However, SNCB understands subjective safety and has made a lot of efforts in recent years to make the station safer and more attractive, for example through the renewal and installation of surveillance cameras. SNCB's Corporate Security Service is therefore pushing its efforts in close cooperation with the State and the police. In general, my cabinet is in contact with Minister Verlinden's cabinet on the reform of the Duquesne circular, which distributes the police missions on the railway domain. Far-reaching synergies should be developed between the railway police, local police and Securail in order to ensure an adequate level of safety on both trains and stations. In particular, for the Mechelen-Nekkerspoel station, SNCB's Corporate Security Service maintains frequent contacts with the administrative authorities and the police in the framework of their cooperation agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u97	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Roggeman's 5502311C, 55022312C and 55022314C were postponed. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Arens' 55022363C, 55022366C and 55022368C were also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u98	Mr President, Mr Toventors, the construction of parking towers is not included in SNCB's budgets. The municipality of Diest is also perfectly aware of this. By making parkings paying where necessary, as in Diest, SNCB learns the real needs for parking spaces. The installation of an access control will take place at the end of 2022 or early 2023. SNCB will, as usual, increase the number of parking spaces for bicycles in the context of the modal shift towards sustainable transport. For more details on SNCB's parking strategy, I refer to the numerous discussions we have had on this in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u99	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u100	Debates of the European Parliament Ms Kim Buyst's 55022452C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u101	Mr Piedboeuf, in response to your questions, the SNCB informs me of the following. SNCB is still in line with the principles of 2014 in the masterplan of the district of the railway station of Libramont. One of the main axes of this shared vision is indeed the densification of the approaches to the station. However, the land situation on the station side is particularly complex because of the plurality of properties and their interlocking. This complexity has been the subject of lengthy litigation, some of which are still under discussion. In terms of land, called the "turnover triangle", located on the other side of the tracks, the situation has recently changed. This land, for which the master plan provided for development, is still necessary for Infrabel's railway needs as part of the modernisation of axis 3 Brussels-Namur-Luxembourg. In the long run, that will no longer be the case. This is why Infrabel and SNCB are currently engaged in a land exchange. In the long term, SNCB will own this turning triangle and will be able to start its real estate development in consultation with the municipality. This collaboration between the municipality and the SNCB will be particularly decisive, in particular financially, to enable the creation of a link, corridor under the tracks or bridge, between this future district and the station. On this link will depend the creation of this quarter of the turning triangle.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u102	Minister, thank you for your answer. It's good news to learn that it's finally moving forward. I have already asked questions about other places such as Bertrix or Arlon, etc. These sites have emerged from the economic sphere or habitat and it is therefore important to have them re-entered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u103	The next item is questions to the Commission. 55022562C, 55022587C and 55022588C by Mr Raskin, but he is no longer present. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Roggeman has been postponed to 55022596C. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 55022626 by Mrs Jadin Mr Vajda (Commission); Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda; Mr Vajda;
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u104	Minister, we had tabled this question about the period of the anniversary of the bankruptcy, including the Ministers for Economic Affairs and Finance, because of course this is the subject of this question. Anyway, the question has ended up here. The people at the anniversary of the bankruptcy were rather angry about the curator's statements that Sabena didn't have to go bankrupt after all and that the company could have been saved. He literally said we could have saved Sabena five times. That is quite a blow to the face of the people who have worked there for many years. For me, of course, this is linked to the whole liberalisation we have seen in the aviation sector. My questions to you are the following. What do you think of the curator's position? Do you agree? How do you explain yourself that the bankruptcy has still not been closed 20 years later? There are still curators in the service. It's like a company. Mr Van Buggenhout now has a hotel of which he is director. People have the impression that the curator has become a company where there is no view of an end date and of what will happen to the money. So there are a lot of questions with the staff about it. Minister, do you have more information and how will it go? Finally, what lessons do you draw from this bankruptcy, the largest in Belgian history, which has come about as a result of the entire liberalisation policy? I am happy to hear your views on this, but I think we will also re-present our question to other ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u105	Mrs. Vindevoghel, congratulations, you have found the Minister responsible for following up on the Sabena file. It is a gift given to me in the division of powers between ministers. A very nice inheritance. I am authorized, but not responsible for Sabena's bankruptcy. I wasn't a politician at the time. There was a committee of inquiry in the Federal Parliament at the time. Perhaps you should read the conclusions of that. My party was represented on that committee and gave its position. It makes no sense for me to now give my personal opinion on that past. I'm gonna follow up on the file as Secretary of State. We must wait for the judicial decision in Belgium and Switzerland. We must therefore wait for this judicial decision to be able to close the consequences of this bankruptcy; I am very sorry for the workers of the Sabena at the time, as well as for all the Belgians who are, somewhere, indirectly, victims of this bankruptcy. Indeed, there is a financial threat to the Belgian State. I am trying today, hic and nunc, as the competent minister, to manage the file that I inherited as best I can. I do not think it is useful for me to give my views on the liberalisation of public transport. I can tell you again that in the government agreement, it is expected that we will give the direct award to SNCB for ten years and that rail transport in Belgium will remain in the public domain for at least the next ten years – and I hope for even longer. It was something important to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u106	So, Minister, if I understand correctly, you are indeed responsible for the succession of curators and the closure, I did not know. Still, many questions remain unanswered. Firstly, you are referring to Switzerland and the legal procedure that has yet to take place, but the closure of the dossier in Belgium is not related to the dossier in Switzerland, is it? Or do I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u107	Yeah, it's linked. One has to solve everything to end the curatele.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u108	We will at least ask questions about it in due course, because the staff have no access whatsoever to the follow-up to that file. How much money is left? How much more do we have to go to the staff and how much doesn't it take? That Mr Van Buggenhout is now director of the hotel in Kinshasa, I find a strange situation. At the same time, he's the director and curator of a hotel that still needs to be sold. We will therefore ask further questions about the actual follow-up of the curators and the file. People have a right to that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u109	Mr President, Minister, you have already replied to a written question by Mr Vandenbroucke that battery trains are an option. There was the resolution by, among other things, the chairman of this committee on the Hamant-Weert train link. If I put those two together, I think that's an ideal combination. Is that indeed a possible option? I also liked to get an update on that line. Contact with the Netherlands is likely to be difficult as there are still ongoing cases there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u110	There is no government yet with full powers in the Netherlands. That does not help to make progress on this dossier, but we are still working on it and trying to find good answers. On 13 July, we discussed this cross-border dossier in this committee. A number of technical studies were carried out on the Dutch side in the context of this dossier and the potential of the link was studied on the Belgian side. On this basis, SNCB prepared a business case for the operation of the connection. I would also point out that the necessary work was carried out on the Belgian side to electrify the line. As I stated at the time, the next step in the dossier is the modernisation of the line in the Netherlands. That is, as you can understand, a decision of the Dutch policy-makers, in the familiar circumstances. In order to follow up this dossier, consultations were held between Belgium and the Netherlands within the existing bilateral steering group on cross-border connections, with input from SNCB, Infrabel and ProRail as main stakeholders. In order to avoid confusion with the bilateral steering group, this working group is referred to as "technical working group Hamont-Weert." The last consultation between the two administrations on the cross-border link between Hamant-Weert took place on 25 October. The Dutch Ministry has delivered all Dutch studies on the connection to the Dutch House of Representatives. The documents will be discussed within the competent committee in the Dutch Lower House on 9 December. Maybe that can be monitored live. I believe in the future of the train as the backbone of mobility in Belgium and for transport to neighbouring countries. My cabinet and administration are therefore making every effort to make progress in this area, with frequent consultations in this dossier with the Dutch government. The next steps are to wait for the formation of a new Dutch government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u111	Minister, I expected your answer more or less. I made a promise that I would ask for it regularly and I will continue to do so. Mr Verduyckt, I understand how you come to your question. I have nothing against the concept of battery trains in itself. It's very good to try, but in that project it's a bad idea. I understand your logic, but if you talk to the actors involved in the project, they will tell you the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u112	Mr. Secretary, you're right. We are, of course, impatient, but we are very badly placed from this Parliament to teach the Dutch a lesson about forming a government. As far as that goes, we'll be patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u113	We've been electrifying all the way to the border anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u114	That was my next point. We have indeed electrified up to the border, in Hamont. That is a good thing. Mr Toventers, perhaps we should discuss this outside the committee. I talked to people who developed the technology. They're telling me it could avoid some expense. That was like one of the stumbling blocks. For those 9 kilometers, there are a lot of costs. For me, the most important thing is that it gets there. This seems like a good slope and we'll look at it further. We are following what is happening in the Netherlands and I thank the Minister for paying attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u115	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Raskin's 55022562C, 5502587C and 55022588C were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Roggeman's 55022596C was also postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55022626C was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vajda's 55022637C is converted into a written question. We now come to Mr Pieter De Spiegeleer's question on the future plans for the renewal of stations in Ninove. 55022741C
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u116	Mr Minister, I had submitted this question in writing, but the deadline for reply had expired. That is why I turned them into an oral question. My question was about the point of contact. I must not convince you, and certainly Mrs Vindevoghel, that this is also a very serious concern for our party. If you can give me the written answer, we can speed things up here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u117	Mr President, I give the written answer to Mr De Spiegeleer. I'm also reporting that I have to leave in five minutes. I'll hand over the prepared version of the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u118	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55022745C) by Mr Rogkeman, (Doc. 55022759C) by Mrs Taquin, (Doc. 55022772C) by Mr Arens, (Doc. 55022908C) by Mr Raskin, (Doc. 55022921C, 55022945C and 55022946C Mr Raskin (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u119	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u120	Minister, I too would like to refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u121	Mr Troasts, Mrs Vindevoghel, on 26 November, the Board of Directors of SNCB approved the rates that will apply from 1 February 2022. SNCB continues to focus on making the train more attractive to leisure travellers, alongside traditional commuting. Therefore, the prices of leisure products for young people and seniors remain unchanged. The price of the paper Local Multi for short distances within a particular zone is reduced to match it with the digital version. The price adjustment follows the provisions of the management contract for living-work subscriptions and school subscriptions, the evolution of which is based, inter alia, on the evolution of the health index. According to the terms of the management contract, this amount is 2.14 %. The average price adjustment for all other products outside the subscriptions is 1.14 %, in line with the health index. The basis of the tariff adjustments is the rates of the current year. Annually, tariff adjustments are discussed in advance with the Advisory Committee of the Train Passengers and this is an opinion. The price of leisure tickets aimed at young people, Youth Ticket, Youth Multi and Youth Holiday, remains unchanged and for the Youth Ticket this is for the third year in a row, which is not insignificant. The price of the senior ticket also remains unchanged for the second year in a row. The price for the Lokal Multi will be reduced by 1 euro, to match it with the digital version and make the use of the train more attractive over short distances. The rate of the standard ticket and derived products is adjusted by 1.63 %. The price of the Standard Multi, both of the paper and the digital version, will be increased by 1 euro. The bicycle supplement will not be modified in 2022. In addition, the tariff adjustments made in 2022 for no new product make a price distinction between paper and digital version. As far as the Flex Subscription is concerned, this is a pilot project that started and is still ongoing in June. In view of the fact that homework has been recommended and/or required in recent months, it is too early to evaluate all aspects of the pilot project. It is still intended to roll out the Flex Subscription in the course of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u122	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It remains a mystery to me why for the Local Multi the price of the paper version is aligned with the price of the digital version, while for other products this does not happen. I regret that. The price of the digital version may not be increased to that of the paper version, but that of the paper version should be reduced to that of the digital version.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u123	Minister, does the bicycle fee change or not? I didn't get that right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u124	I didn't say anything about the bicycle fee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic636x.u125	We don't think price increases are a good idea. We want more people on the train and so prices must not rise. A paper ten way ticket is more expensive than the online card. Anyone who isn't digitally with us will be punished. The president of PS calls for free public transport and yet prices are rising. His party is still part of the government, so I don't understand why prices are rising. As far as the bikes are concerned, taking the bike on the train costs as much for a small one as for a large distance. We do not think it is normal for passengers to have to pay so much to take a bicycle on the train, even if it is a short distance.
