ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u2	Colleagues, The time has come to read out a letter I sent on behalf of this House to the Speaker of the British House of Commons following the heinous assassination of David Amess. "It was with deep sadness that we learned of the assassination on 15 October of Conservative MP David Amess. While participating in a constituency meeting – a permanence for citizens – in Essex County, about 50 kilometres from London, he was brutally stabbed and died shortly after his injuries. David Amess died doing his work as a parliamentarian. He was known for his kindness and great heart, he stood up for the most vulnerable in society and was very open-minded, especially to those with whom he disagreed. It is the second murder of a British MP in five years, after Jo Cox who was murdered in similar circumstances in her constituency in 2016. Unfortunately, today, many Members of Parliament throughout the world are still threatened with death or are effectively victims of violence. Our democracy will never admit acts of hatred and intolerance. We strongly condemn these barbaric acts that remind us of how much we must cherish our rights and freedoms." Prime Minister, would you like to add a word?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u3	Madam President, the government joins with the condolences extended to David Amess' family and friends and wishes to join you in remembering the terrible attack he suffered. Amess was a colourful figure with strong opinions. In that respect, he was an important Member of Parliament. Because it is the diversity of opinions that makes our democracy strong: the organised disagreement. Saying opinions, but never fighting. Those who cross this line attack society itself. All democrats, whether they disagreed with or disagreed with David Amess, must strongly condemn the attack. We must continue to fight against intolerance and hatred of which he was the victim.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u4	I invite you to observe a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u5	Prime Minister, vaccination is the way to freedom. You were hoping for a 70 percent vaccination rate. The Flemings gave you over 90%. They did what you needed to do massively, but instead of that promised freedom, they are now getting a pass society. No way to freedom, but to the state of emergency. After all, only a few days after the liberal parties and socialist congresses, this government is going to introduce the pandemic law. "In Flanders, the vaccination rate is so high that we don't need a coronapas. Freedom is the rule." Those are not my words, but those of your party chairman, Egbert Lachaert, on 26 September. During that week, Prime Minister, 217 people were in intensive care in this country, 38 less than the 255 of today's population of 4 million. Is that the difference between freedom and state of emergency? The fear is spreading here faster than the virus. A coronapas doesn't help, it creates a false sense of security. You said yourself that you were against a pass company, you didn't think a corona pass was necessary in Flanders. The Flemish government, with the N-VA in its head, also spoke very strongly against this. If would-beemperors need Latin spells for some kind of sale of cookie boxes:bavolant. That is the most practiced Latin spell by the governments in this country. Their words are fried air. Prime Minister, please explain to me the scientific usefulness of a corona pass in Flanders, where almost everyone has already been vaccinated. Secondly, if a corona pass is so necessary when more than 92 % is fully vaccinated, when will we get rid of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u6	Mr Prime Minister, we are all concerned about rising numbers, 50% more hospitalisations and 75% more covid contamination. The Consultative Committee therefore took measures this week to slow down the increase. The care system is likely to be overloaded again at a time when care providers are exhausted in the first line and in hospitals, after four contagion waves that were followed each time by catching up with the many delayed treatments. As manager, I can say that there is also a great deal of concern in the business world. There, too, the workload has been increased, with economic revival and catch-up movements combined with the vacancies that remain open. In the meantime, companies are making every effort to maintain a good working environment and to avoid an outbreak in the workplace. So we have to arm ourselves against this wave, especially in order to avoid any lockdown at all times. The vaccination is very important, but unfortunately it is not 100% final. That's always been the case. Our restaurants, our companies and our families have the resources and know the recipes to prevent further spread of the virus, namely wear a mouth mask, keep your distance, wash your hands arranged, limit your contacts and discuss homework. In addition, there is the extension of the Covid Safe Ticket. However, it is particularly important that we work together, with focused efforts and common sense, so that we can avoid stricter measures, such as the closures of sectors, in the future. Telework is strongly recommended again, but will it also be monitored? Furthermore, are there plans to shorten the quarantine period after a negative test, given the large labour shortages in companies and certainly in education?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u7	Madam President, Prime Minister, it is undeniable that the fourth wave is there. This Monday, we were beating a new record with nearly 9,000 new infections and last week, on average, fifteen people a day died as a result of the covid-19. It is too much, too much in a country where vaccination is free and available, even if, I think, we have to thank all the people vaccinated, without whom this figure would be much worse. You have partly taken on your responsibilities by advancing the Concertation Committee and finally deciding to harmonise a number of rules across the country since now the Covid Safe Ticket (CST) is applicable in Flanders. That's good news. There is no place in a small country like ours for any health nationalism. On the other hand, I am quite skeptical and rather troubled by your concern about the famous third dose. I hear you're thinking about it. There seems to be an urgent need to move forward on the issue of caregivers, the most vulnerable people under the age of 65 and those with co-morbidities. For these people, how fast will the discussions on a third dose take place? Who are likely to be affected by this third booster dose? If a third dose is to be given to the entire population in the coming weeks, are we ready when we have dismantled a very large part of the vaccination centres? These are important issues. Finally, Prime Minister, we take note of the federal government's decision to activate the pandemic legislation. My party has always regretted the adoption of this text, which, as a reminder, organises a genuine submission from Parliament to the government in times of crisis. When will the royal decree which will implement it be taken? On the contrary, one may like or not like the CST but as the Walloon Region and the Brussels Region yesterday, the Flemish Region, tomorrow, will decide, via its Parliament, to take this restrictive measure of freedoms and to deliberate it. It's a real difference with the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, I would like first of all to welcome the results and conclusions of the last Consultation Committee, which has taken useful and necessary steps to preserve the health of the population, while also preserving the economic activity of our country and social and cultural life. It's important. We have effective tools for this: vaccination, the Covid Safe Ticket but also the wearing of the mask. Emphasis was placed on the need to wear the mask in public places. It is important to keep reminding him. We know that the increase in the rate of contamination is now a fact and we must, of course, react to it. You react to this by providing a foundation for the strong federal, also with some autonomy of the Regions that is important depending on the situations that may be different from one Region to another. I would like to stress the need to preserve the medical profession and all caregivers in our country today. If, fortunately, the rate of hospitalization is not as high as the increase in the rate of contamination, which is the result of vaccination, we know that the medical profession and the caregivers in general are being put to a very severe test. We must therefore take this decision to encourage compulsory vaccination among caregivers. I think this is a decision that we have to make today. We also need to ensure that the entire health care system has access to the third dose as quickly as possible, as we obviously need a health care system that is able to cope with rising levels of infection and covid-related diseases. We need that. As a result, Prime Minister, I am asking you to ensure that we make the decisions quickly to encourage the vaccination of all health care workers in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u9	Prime Minister, you are teaching Poland about tyranny, but in your corona policy we are beginning to see a carousel of abuse of power in a pass society. We have endured lockdowns and strict measures for a year and a half, so that the care staff and hospitals would not be overloaded. Can you explain to me, Prime Minister, why hundreds of thousands of children are being held hostage in their classrooms, when virtually no contagion of young people leads to hospitalisation, let alone stay in intensive care? Can you also tell me why waiters, waiters and cooks in the hospitality industry who have been vaccinated should wear a mouth mask if no one is allowed in a restaurant without a coronapas? Is that bullying behavior, Prime Minister? Only in the fitness centres in the Brussels Rand was there a problem. So can you tell me why all the fitness centres throughout Flanders must be the victims of the malpractice of our Brussels politicians, the road viewers, who fear vaccination to remind their own minorities, in this case the Muslim community, of their duties? Prime Minister, on 12 September this year you said yourself that you do not see why an extension of the corona pass would be necessary in Flanders. Your chairman, Mr Lachaert, who is absent here, said that there is such a high vaccination rate in Flanders that we do not need a coronapas. He said freedom is the rule and we're on a slippery slope. Your experts such as Geert Molenberghs claimed that full group immunity would have been achieved at a vaccination rate of 70%. Well, in my municipality, the vaccination rate is 95%! Many inhabitants have even received a third shot. Do I have to tell my residents that your chairman, your experts and your government are liars or that (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u10	Madam President, Prime Minister, I am standing here because I have a few questions for you. A few days later it rained panic stories in the media, among others spread by the same Minister of Health. That's why I thought something had happened, probably an increase in alarm levels in the intensive concerns. When looking at these figures, I see, in relation to the threshold of 500 that was once pushed forward, that we are halfway there. The number of vaccinees vaccinations was called the road to freedom in Flanders is in many municipalities above 90%. Those vaccines haven't worn off yet, have they? Then what's the explanation for this sudden panic rush? It is important that an atmosphere was created among the people. If people don't take the new measures, there's gonna be a lockdown. The country's main virologist even put on social media that we should avoid going to 1,400 recordings in intensive care. Public opinion has created an atmosphere: if you do not take those measures, we will go to terrible situations. That explains the word "emergency situation," Prime Minister. You will declare a pandemic emergency. We agree that there are grounds for caution, but your disproportionate communication now leads to the best region, the only region, being intertwined, while the regions that are doing worse do not seem to have to take any new measures. I want an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u11	Madam President, Members of Parliament, I have listened carefully to the questions, but I would like to start with a number of facts and four figures. First digit. It's obvious we're in an autumn wave. That means there are a lot of infections, on average 5,700 infections in the past week. That's perfectly similar to what we saw in the middle of October last year. This is not only true in our country, but also in the Netherlands, in the United Kingdom, and many other European countries. The second element is the delta variant, which is three times more contagious than the variants we experienced a year ago. Clearly, vaccination works, but the delta variant is stronger. The vaccination helps 70 % against infection and 90 % against serious disease, but it does not help 100 %. No one said that the vaccines would work at 100%. The vaccines are a very good protection, but it is not absolute protection. Fourth digit, for those here trying to make a regional distinction. Let's take a look at the numbers. The reproduction number indicates how strong the circulation of the virus is. In Limburg it is 1.54 %, in Antwerp it is 1.45 % and in West Flanders it is 1.54 %. The average in our country is 1.3 %. Three provinces above average are provinces in Flanders. I'm not saying that to point the finger at one or the other. I'm saying that to indicate that we're in a situation today where the increased circulation is everywhere. That's not one or the other's fault. That's just reality. There's nothing you can do about the fact that the circulation is higher. I would find it strange that we would then decide to close our eyes to that, to pretend that we have not seen it. That would mean that we do not want to accept our responsibility. What's the situation? There is a wave of infection going through our country, the virus is more contagious, the vaccination offers the best but no absolute protection and the autumn wave hits all of Europe and not one region or the other. In our country, too, we see this throughout the country. On the basis of these facts, we have decided to bring forward the Consultation Committee. The sooner decisions are made, the better the policy that can be implemented. Those of you who are now screaming murder and fire, I invite you to take a walk outside. Does it look like our society has stopped? Does it look like cafes and restaurants are closing? Does it look like a lot of things are forbidden? No, it's just the opposite. Life goes on exactly the same way. That was also the intention of the decision taken with all governments. Life must go on, but with a little more caution and a little more vigilance. To be honest, that seems to me to be a good decision at the moment. Protection is actually something like getting dressed in winter. When it gets cold, one attracts a layer more. If it gets colder, they'll attract another layer. We are actually doing the exact same thing today. As we observe that the circulation of the virus increases, we say that vaccination remains the rule, but we add a layer of caution, such as wearing the mask or the CST. This will help us. This does not mean that vaccination does not work. However, given the high level of circulation of the virus, I think it is appropriate to do so. Then I get to the Covid Safe Ticket. We must be careful that this is not going to be a rearguard fight. The people are with us, the Catering Federation is with us, our neighbors use it, many of us have used exactly similar instruments abroad this summer and have found that this works very well. Am I saying it's a miracle cure? No, that's absolutely not a miracle cure. No one said this is the perfect protection. In the logic of adding layer by layer, that is a good thing. Besides, introducing the Covid Safe Ticket is, except for major events, the responsibility of the Länder. I see that during the Consultation Committee the Länder have taken up their responsibilities and taken the appropriate steps to do so (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u12	Prime Minister, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u13	If you allow me, I'd like to continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u14	No, Prime Minister, I am not allowed to give you additional time, under the watchful eye of some of the members of this chamber. Those who want more details will have to question you at a later stage. That's how it is. We agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u15	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u16	This exchange you currently have with members is neither recorded nor heard by those following our live session. [[Brouhahaha]] I therefore ask those Members who have asked to come forward for their reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u17	Prime Minister, instead of making false comparisons, you should have used the time to answer the questions. The comparison of the number of infections with a year ago makes no sense. In the meantime, we have a vaccination rate of 92 percent. We are now in a completely different context. You compare apples to lemons. Vigilance and caution, I agree with that call. However, that has nothing to do with an emergency situation or today's panic-mongering. By the way, vaccination doesn't rule out contamination, but a QR code does exclude people. That is not the society we want. We do not want a coronapas, not in the catering industry, not in the gym, especially not at work, which some people are even arguing for today. Citizens should not control other citizens; that is police work. Leave that to the police! The realm of freedom is becoming a coronadic nature in this country, and we will strongly oppose it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u18	Mr Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for the answer, but unfortunately you have not been able to finish it, because the opposition has always disturbed your speech. So I can only hope that we will use all the measures we know and follow them as closely as possible, so that no additional measures are needed, we can simply continue and keep society open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u19	Prime Minister, you see me a little distraught because you haven't answered any of my questions. Indeed, you have spent most of your speaking time doing numerical and sanitary pedagogy to the attention of the benches of your right, recalling elements which, personally, seem obvious to me. I regret it because we still don't know what your plan is for the third dose for those under 65. Nor do we know when the Royal Pandemic Law Order will come into force. It's very frustrating. If you could talk about it in a future interview, it may allow Members to be put to perfume!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u20	Madam President, Prime Minister, all European countries, as well as others, are facing an increase in contamination today. But I am not sure that, in all European countries, the Prime Minister is cut off when he answers questions on such an important subject. I recall that the Covid Safe Ticket, the wearing of the mask and the vaccination are three interdependent tools that are each particularly useful in the situation we know. We must therefore support the application and use of these three tools to protect the health of the population, but also to enable it to develop economic, social and cultural activity. This is the usefulness of these three combined tools. Prime Minister, you will probably have an opportunity to answer me later (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u21	Prime Minister, I've never heard such nonsense. If you now say that the reproduction rate is higher where the most vaccinees are counted, I do not understand it anymore. I would like to say something too personal, even though it is dangerous to do so in the hemisphere. My mother-in-law died August 29th. She was 85 years old, she was inoculated twice, and she died of COVID-19. In fact, she didn't die of COVID-19, it would only have taken a few months. She died of old age. Of course, we still have to take into account the old people who have been vaccinated and who may nevertheless die. I'm having a hard time with the absurdity of the moment. I've been asking questions here. This is not about infections, it is about being sick, about the burden on hospitals and about the burden on the care staff. That's what this is about. That doesn't mean half a million kids have to stay inside. For that we do not have to bully the catering industry. It's not because the chairman of HorecaVlaanderen will be on the list of Open Vld, that we have to believe him. The shame is over that people who have been working with a mask in the catering industry for a year and a half and who have been vaccinated themselves are now obliged to say that and to ask their customers if they have been vaccinated, but that the boss should not ask the waiter if he has been vaccinated. How absurd can it be? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u22	Prime Minister, I did not expect one thing, namely that you, as Prime Minister of the Vivaldi Government, did not know that autumn was coming after summer and that you are probably calling in autumn as an excuse not to admit that you actually ended up with your team in the winter. That's the lucky thing you're getting to do today. In all honesty, when you explain to people in shops today that life is normal, but that they need to show caution by wearing a mouth mask eight hours a day, I don't know what you call a normal life. At least it's a different "normal life" than the people in the shops. Moreover, while your government is much less active at the moment when there is a third chance of being offered to the care staff, you tell the story here that a huge difference in vaccination actually doesn't make any difference. So you are the one who makes the vaccination unbelievable, and that is a disgrace.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u23	I have received amendments to the draft law amending the law of 15 July 2016 implementing Regulation (EU) No 98/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013 on the marketing and use of explosives precursors, No 2163/3. I have received amendments to the draft law amending the law of 15 July 2016 implementing Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. 98/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013 on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors, No. 2163/3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 October 2021, I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 October 2021, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). Discussion of the bill will continue in plenary, after consideration of the amendment in committee. The draft law will be discussed in plenary today, after discussion of the amendment in committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u24	Madam President, in this Parliament, there is a tradition that is embodied in rule 90 of our Rules of Procedure and that basically states that an amendment to a proposal or a bill must be a minimum in relation to that legislation. It is precisely to avoid making a little folklore or rock'n roll by placing a little where we want amendments, etc., history that the legislation is still a little structured. It turns out that today, on the basis of a bill dealing with explosives, the government wants to add an amendment that is in fact a completely different bill dealing with travel agencies. I see that the link does not exist otherwise it would be in bad taste. I can understand the urgency, Madam President. I understand that the government has not done its job in time and that the texts are coming late, etc., but can we agree in this House that the more than flexible interpretation of Article 90 can also be done in favour of the opposition in the weeks and months to come? It wouldn't be nice to take double standards. I therefore propose that, in the parliamentary annals and in today's discussion, the very flexible interpretation of Rule 90 be continued until the end of the legislature. I do not see many colleagues in disagreement. It would be difficult to disagree. It seems to me quite appropriate. If, at any time, the opposition finds it interesting to have a bill or an urgent amendment, it must also be able to table the bill or amendments. Then everyone is free to reject it and have the debate. Let us avoid double standards in the application of this Article 90! I believe that is part of a consensus. I don't doubt everyone's will. This can be noted in the parliamentary annals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u25	Mr Hedebouw is of course right in principle. We must again make a mistake here and ignore the Rules of Procedure. However, Article 90 is clear. We must go along with this because there is urgency, but this is yet another urgency that the government itself has caused. That's the point! My own group tabled a proposal on this matter, not by chance, more than a year ago, through Mr Van Bossuyt. At that time, it was apparently not urgent, it was apparently not necessary at that time, and it was apparently not necessary at that time to approve it. Prime Minister, you know that the four seasons follow each other. Vivaldi. Then suddenly there was urgency, because the opposition's proposals are ignored, while the majority who then take over and put them in an urgent mode, while the Rules of Procedure are being followed. The government has been asked here on several occasions not to constantly put us in a situation in which the Rules of Procedure are being crushed, ignored and misinterpreted by the wretched dawdling of the government. For the sake of clarity, we will not block this because it is really urgent. Is that your new political culture, Prime Minister? It is perhaps the tenth time that we have asked this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u26	Colleagues, therefore and given the urgency, the Economy Committee will meet at 3 p.m. in the Gabrielle Petit Room at Forum 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u27	Madam President, Prime Minister, after a few dry summers, in 2021, we were faced with a shortage of water. We told each other that the situation was not normal. When I walk out here today and look at the many leaves on the trees, when it is almost the beginning of November, I know that this is not normal. The seriousness of global warming is widely recognised today. However, the Belgian climate debate today, which is slower than the fall of the leaves, makes me sad, especially since it is not all that. We want an energy transition in this country, but Mrs Demir makes this a political game in Flanders. We want to put new windmills in the sea in this country, but suddenly it turns out that it is a problem in Flanders to bring that power ashore. That lack of cooperation and responsibility has two consequences. Firstly, the result is that we are no longer being taken seriously internationally in the field of climate policy. Decisions are being made today, but Belgium is not even at the table. Prime Minister, put the powers where they are needed and should be, because this makes our country vulnerable. Secondly, the second consequence is for the people who live in this country. After all, dependence on fossil fuels today causes us to face high energy prices. I believe that the aim of climate policy is to combat social inequality rather than the other way round. I see very good examples of this in Scandinavia, by the way. Mr Minister, I am jumping on a train to Glasgow on Saturday to give a voice to those who are concerned and ask for concrete measures to combat global warming. I know you're going, too. I would now like to ask you the following. What will you do to correct the Belgian climate negotiations so that we in Glasgow can assume our responsibilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u28	Prime Minister, this weekend begins COP26, which will enable us to make the Paris Accords a reality. As a reminder, the Paris Accords are aimed at controlling global warming to a maximum of 1.5°, but they also reflect the commitment of historically the most polluting countries to support vulnerable countries in their ability to limit their greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to climate change, which already affects them in the front line. This COP26, as we know, is the COP of the last chance. Yet the current commitments of the international community are clearly insufficient three days from the beginning of this COP. We are still on a trajectory of more than 2.7° of warming, which is obviously untenable. But that's not all: some countries arrive totally unprepared for this COP and fail to agree on credible objectives to be able to come to negotiations. This is once again the case in Belgium. Indeed, we are about to come empty-handed to the COP, all because the federal authority cannot agree with the federated entities on credible objectives. As we know, Flanders once again said yesterday, Belgium is not up to the stakes, and it still fails to align itself with the Federal and the Regions in order to be on an optimistic path. Prime Minister, my questions are simple: how are we going to agree at the COP with more than seven billion human beings, when we cannot reach an agreement in our country, eleven million Belgians? In concrete terms, will Belgium live up to its responsibilities at the COP? Will we be able to weigh in the international debate with clear and concrete objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u29	Madam President, Prime Minister, you are leaving for the COP at the beginning of next week, an important meeting. Hopefully, that will not be yet another mass in which everyone confesses their faith, with a bid of good intentions, without taking concrete measures. Climate challenge is important, is not under discussion and is not new. The fact that the Nobel Prizes were awarded to meteorologists, Mr Hasselmann and Mr Manabe, who carried out an analysis in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, proves that very much. To the extent that the EU wants to play a leading role, we obviously need clear and realistic action plans, which are widely supported and can also be implemented and supported by businesses and citizens. The principle of moving insight must not be overlooked. I was 18 when the report of the Club of Rome came out. That was an apocalyptic image of the depletion of raw materials. Meanwhile, there have been many technological developments, both in terms of energy efficiency and in terms of better use of energy resources. By 2050, so within 30 years, when we have to be carbon neutral, innovative inventions will still have happened. We do not therefore look forward to these years with the same knowledge and the same possibilities. This concerns efficiency, but also energy supply. It is therefore also very important that companies, which are the catalyst for necessary innovation, know their proper role and are properly framed. Belgium has a lot of knowledge in that. What message are you going to Glasgow with? What role do you see for technological innovation? Will you also provide a clear framework for companies to take up their role in reducing global warming?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u30	Prime Minister, as colleagues have pointed out, we are three days away from COP26 and there is currently no intra-Belgian agreement on the allocation of efforts. I think you have no choice but to reach an agreement. It is unthinkable that climate ministers will teach other countries around the world when they are unable to agree on a Belgian scale, even though the European Environment Agency ranked Belgium among the worst students with Bulgaria a few days ago. As Prime Minister, you must take over, summon the four climate ministers and force an agreement. You have no choice but this one. I hope, Prime Minister, that you will not simply put forward your 2019 Wilmès Government's National Energy-Climate Plan, without any agreement on who will have to do what in the intrabelge distribution. Without goals other than those far away, 2030 and 2050, without concrete, precise, clear targets for the end of your government in 2024. This obviously seems particularly light. I hear some people say it's the fault of a party. But the same party, the N-VA not to mention it, was already around the table during the COP21 negotiations. Despite his presence, an agreement could have been forced. Prime Minister, will you take over, summon the four climate ministers to force an agreement? Your responsibility and credibility are at stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u31	Prime Minister, what's stopping us? That is the title of a television programme with weatherwoman Jill Peeters on Canvas and it really sums up the discussion. This summer a siren sounded in our country. The floods were an alarm signal, a red flag. Climate warming is a reality, it causes extreme weather and people are the victims of it. If we do not act now, we are actually doing something wrong. The Vivaldi government isn't gonna stick around. We have completed our climate plan, with a reduction in CO2 emissions of 55%, more than what Europe is asking us to do. We provide for investment in rail, a greening of salary wagons and the most important climate change measure of the last 10 years, namely more wind energy in the North Sea. Can you really guarantee that Belgium will move to the Glasgow climate summit with a strong position, with real ambition, with many viable green proposals and with international climate financing? However green the ambition of this federal government is, Flanders is an unreliable partner. Flanders has been dragging its feet for years and refuses to support this European target of 55% CO2 emissions reduction. They remain at 33%. As a Fleming, I'm really ashamed of that. This is not my Flemish government. In times when people die from floods, even in their own country, that is heavenly. Prime Minister, there is a political problem that we must solve now, just a few days before the climate summit really starts, if we do not want to stand there with shame on the cheeks. We have done our homework, it is time for Flanders to do the same and finally show the climate ambition that is needed. How are we going to prevent our country from being weakened by one conservative, unreliable region?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u32	Prime Minister, next week the climate summit will start in Glasgow and people expect Belgium to show ambition there. It's about their future, especially our young people, and it's five to twelve for the climate. That's why they came out earlier with 50,000. People are fed up with fine words, now is the time for action. Except we haven't seen much of that yet. However, we did get another episode of the bickering between the four climate ministers. Belgium has the world record on the number of climate ministers per population, but in terms of effective climate policy we are dangling at the tails of Europe. In fact, it is clear that we need to invest, invest and invest again. The European Commission says that we in Europe must invest at least 5 000 billion in the climate over the next ten years. That's 500 billion a year. For Belgium, this amounts to 10 billion a year. What does the greenest government ever do? Not 10 billion a year, but 1 billion over 3 years. You call that the greenest government ever. Come on, Prime Minister, can we please be serious? Let me give you another example. You have the ambition to isolate government buildings within ten years, but with this government's investment rate, we'll literally be done in 100 years. Prime Minister, you are going to the COP with fine promises, but where do we find your ambitions in the budget? Will you admit that your government's planned 1 billion will be far too little to respect the Paris Agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u33	Madam President, I am going to Glasgow with a delegation and ministers from other governments in our country. What did the federal government do last year? We have set a course to achieve our transition to a sustainable economy in response to climate change. We are taking strong action. There is a plan of resilience and recovery common to all Belgian governments, in which the proportion of ecological transition measures reaches 50% of the total, while the European limit is 37%. That is why we are doing much better than we were asked to do. As regards the validation of the general plan of 45% reduction, the European Commission has calculated that this reduction for our country amounts to 47% because it takes into account the feasibility for different countries and the cost-benefit analysis, as our country had also pointed out. The federal government decided on 8 October to take 25 million of this reduction of 50 million tonnes of CO2. I note that other governments in our country, for example, still have a Council of Ministers tomorrow to see how they are going to implement that reduction. I think it would be logical for me to wait for this debate in the other governments. However, let me take this opportunity to call upon you to join forces. This European objective of 59% is based on cooperation. We have looked at countries where this is the easiest to achieve, to which countries have the financial capacity and which have the best geography. This has worked at European level. It would be very strange that this method of cooperation in our country, the cradle of Europe, does not work. If we beat together, I am convinced that our country will be able to achieve this objective in a very realistic way. I am, of course, waiting for the results of the debate in other governments. At federal level, a train of measures has already been taken, such as the reform of commercial vehicles to ensure that a very large part of our fleet will be completely emission-free from 2026; investment in rail for more than 250 million and investment in cargo with a significant impact on our economy. Climate funding where Minister Kitir has increased the amounts planned in our country, the reform of our taxation with, for example, professional diesel and increased collaboration with the private sector. I would like to remind you that the biggest investment ever made in CO2 reduction is on the basis of this year's decision. It is an investment of EUR 1.1 billion. ArcelorMittal does it in Ghent to ensure that we can produce the most environmentally friendly steel in the world. So there is a lot on the move, which is a good thing. Today, we are clearly facing the most difficult mission of this generation. We must not be naive, what is being asked of us is a huge challenge. There is still a long way to go and no country can do it alone. No region will be able to do this alone either. This message has also been given to the G20 by our country, together with a number of other countries. We wanted to make it clear to the G20 countries that they have to take responsibility. We hope that other countries will take over our European ambitions. The good news is that the day before yesterday Australia said that it will also take over that ambition. So that is actually the role of Europe: as a locomotive the others pull along. One can look at this issue in two ways: either as a kind of limitation that restricts and complicates our lives, or as a challenge that can give us a technological advantage. This way we can create solutions here, which we then export. In such an economic story, we can make a difference in the rest of the world. That's the way we federal (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u34	Prime Minister, I have listened to your overview of the measures. And they're good. But I still don't think it's enough. I have also listened to your call for greater cooperation and responsibility, at a time when some people do not take that responsibility. We do not need these endless delays as a result of this consultation between the Länder. Today we prove that we can work quickly and effectively. You referred to Minister Kitir, who is in the Sahel today to work on climate projects. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, that is where we know we have to work together. Working together may not work on Twitter, but working together needs our people and our climate. So don't play with our future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u35	Prime Minister, thank you for your determination and optimism. I think you're doing very well to remember what the federal government is doing and what the federal government is doing. Nevertheless, I would like to reiterate my point. Attending the COP in dispersed order without intra-Belgian agreement on the allocation of efforts would be unacceptable. To be clear, it would be a slap to the countries of the South that are at the forefront of climate change. It would be a slap for the most vulnerable people in our country and elsewhere, who will always be at the forefront of the effects of climate change. It would be a slap to the survivors of the floods that hit us this summer. It would be a slap for the 50,000 walkers who were on the street two weeks ago, reminding us of our responsibilities. Finally, it would be a slap for our children and future generations. That, as environmentalists, we cannot accept it. You have a few hours left, Prime Minister, to find a solution. Good luck!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u36	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your clear message. There is work to be done, including changes in behaviour, both in the public authorities and in businesses and in citizens. The challenges are stimulating innovation and dare to broaden our vision so as not to get caught up between expensive renewable energy and cheaper fossil energy. We must open the door to technological innovation, including in the field of carbon-free non-renewable energy, in order not to use the "k' word, in a business and sober manner and without dogmatism. I think that we are past the fear and hysteria, that it is now time for action, that the time of slogans is over, that it is time for innovation and action. Less slogans, more solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u37	Madam President, Prime Minister, you are doing much better than what is required at European Commission level. That's true, but only in words! Saying here that you are the greenest government in history, what you've been hearing for weeks, while you still don't have an agreement for COP26 three days from the event, it's really big blablabla, as all the participants at the Climate event would have said clearly a few weeks ago How many different positions are you going to express in Glasgow? Yours, those of every climate minister? These are different ambitions, very few concrete measures and no strategy worthy of this name. I would like to quote Mr Nollet, party president, who said in 2015: "We are seventeen days away from COP21 and Belgium still does not have a climate agreement on the distribution of efforts to be made. We have lost all credibility in this matter." Prime Minister, you have three days left!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u38	Prime Minister, the Glasgow Summit must not fail. There is no alternative, and that is why I particularly welcome your call for cooperation on one of our regions that is lagging behind. How else can we argue at that international forum for greater ambition at international level, if we cannot even do so in our own small country? Where would we still have the moral right, for example, to bring a country like China to justice if we do not manage to do so ourselves? As far as climate policy is concerned, Flanders is a millstone around our necks. It shows itself as a region that still does not understand climate change, even after the floods in its own country. It's so hard to understand. Look at the wind energy tree in the North Sea, look at all the companies that are eager to invest in the green economy in our country, look at the climate marches. So there is a lot of support and there is cause for optimism. People now expect politicians to act and they expect them to work together. They're right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u39	Prime Minister, you state that you are investing and that you are doing better than the previous government, but you know what science is asking and you are simply not doing enough. Please accept your responsibility. We don't negotiate with science. I also notice that the Vivaldi government is champion in stabbing behind others. For example, colleague De Vriendt says that Flanders is an unreliable partner. Please stop playing the blackbird on each other. Fighting federalism isn't gonna get us anywhere. Your government must take control of Belgian climate policy, Prime Minister. The federal level must not hide behind the regions. Both the regions and the federal government are doing too little. That is why we want to turn the climate back into a fully federal competence. I hope we can get your support for that. Nor are you serious about investment. We are four days (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u40	Madam President, Prime Minister, some experts from the Special Committee on Congo have news for you. There's good news and bad news. I'll start with the bad news. You are a white man and you are therefore also responsible for the colonisation of Congo since Leopold II. You are guilty because of your skin color, because you eat chocolate men, guilty because of the books you read and the music you listen to. Fortunately, there is also good news, because you can buy off your colonial inheritance sin. That's very easy, you just have to give money to the ex-colonies, money to the diaspora, money for therapeutic massages and feminist guided tours, please. Apparently, historical injustice is easier to digest when you pour a financial sauce over it. According to the experts, that money should not even be obtained from those who have made a big profit from colonization, namely the Royal House and the large mining groups. No, we want to get it from the simple taxpayer. The last word on this has not yet been said in committee, but the point of the debate is, of course, your government's position on whether or not to provide a budget for it. The majority in the committee can promise heaven and earth, but that is not relevant if your government does not enter a budget for that. It is therefore a matter of government, but I do not read very much about it in your coalition agreement. Prime Minister, is your government prepared or not to provide a budget for recovery payments to the former colonies? Are you giving financial carte blanche to the Special Committee on Congo or are you limiting it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u41	Mr Roggeman, everyone has the freedom to express themselves on this issue in the tonality that is considered appropriate in this House. I hope that the tone you use is not a harbinger of the importance you attach to that report. It is a very thorough report, which the experts have been working on for a year. The status of that report is also clearly stated. The assignment to the experts was to have a first basis for the discussion. This is actually the start of the discussion about our colonial past. The experts urge politicians themselves not to rush ahead and take the time to see what is in this report and to have a debate on it. I think it is a good thing to take the time to conduct this debate thoroughly with the necessary nuance. Nuance seems to me to be a good thing on the basis of your introduction. This is about a past, indeed. Did you and I have anything directly to do with what happened back then? No. Does this mean that we should not conduct this debate with the necessary serenity? I don't agree with that. Experts have put forward a very wide range of elements. I have already been asked that question in the past. My answer at the time was that it would be wrong to push the debate into a financial debate. I do not think a sum of money would greatly improve the situation of the people in our former colonies. In my view, it is about building a country, with institutions that are strong, with an economy that can develop, with an economy that is inclusive, where wealth can benefit everyone and not 2% of the population. I also believe in the partnership we have with Rwanda, Burundi and the DRC. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u42	Prime Minister, I cannot deny that interesting work has been done. I would like to thank the historians and the reconciliation experts for their thorough work. But there are some chapters in it that poison the debate before it begins. If payment for the past and for occupation in the past becomes the standard, we ourselves have a lot to settle with the Germans, the French, the Austrians, the Spaniards, and who knows even the Romans, if we go back that far. You're keeping the church in the middle today. You don't say no, you don't say yes. I will tell you in advance the position of the N-VA: we are against recovery payments. This is bullshit. Get rid of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u43	Mr Minister, the generic guide to counter the spread of the COVID-19 virus at work is still today the Bible to create a safe workplace. It is quite literally stated that employers have a duty to create a safe working environment for their employees and that workers have the right to work or stay in a safe way. The discussion on protection in the workplace has been going on for a number of days. Last weekend there was already the discussion about the demand for vaccination in applications. We also heard that Horeca Flanders advocates CST for customers and even has an agreement on a CST for its own employees with the social partners. Agoria is also asking for the CST to be deployed today. Furthermore, the SD Worx survey shows that 6 out of 10 SMEs in our country are asking for better protection for their employees. We believe, Minister, that we should have the debate on this issue. We therefore believe that the covid safe ticket should be able to be applied to the workplace and that this should be accompanied by the necessary consultation with the workers and the social partners. Last weekend, moreover, I read in a newspaper that the Minister for Health is also in favour of our proposal, for a personal title. Minister, are you prepared to enter into the debate and raise the subject at a forthcoming meeting of the Consultative Committee? Are you prepared to create a legislative framework for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u44	Mrs Muylle, like you, I have heard the statements and questions of the CEOs of Agoria, SD Worx and Horeca Flanders. The current law prohibits, subject to certain exceptions, employers from collecting medical information on the state of health of their employees. The employer can therefore not require a covid safe ticket or a certificate of vaccination from the employee. I can confirm that these issues have not yet been discussed by the Consultative Committee. So no decision has yet been taken. The implementation of the CST in companies would entail a significant change in the law, as would an adaptation of the cooperation agreement on the CST. Of course, it is important to ensure that the fundamental rights of workers are respected. I am thinking here of the right to confidentiality of their health data, the right to the protection of their personal data and the right not to be discriminated against on the basis of their health status. Finally, consideration will also have to be given to the possible consequences of such a decision, such as the impact on workers who do not submit CST, the impact on the organisation of work and also on how compliance with the obligation can be monitored. In any event, the measure must be discussed in the Consultative Committee prior to a debate with and between the social partners. The Data Protection Authority will also have to consider it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and I understand your legitimate concern about employee data. But I want to nuance things. A covid safe ticket today only shows if you have been vaccinated, are recovering from Covid-19 and if you have undergone a test. It doesn't matter more information. It is a matter of urgency and I refer to the debate we have just had - for us, not a story or a story, but an en- en-story of measures. That is why we believe that we should conduct a thorough debate on this issue and look at the boundaries. Our position is very clear. You need to take initiatives in consultation with the social partners and we share the same concern in this regard to create a safe workplace for everyone who goes to work and stays at work. We are therefore in favour of this debate and would like to see it conducted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u46	Mr. Secretary, who exactly is the person who brings you home food? Hardly anyone knows that. The restaurants don't know, you don't know and also Deliveroo claims to have no idea. Ladies and gentlemen, for years I have been warning you about the effects of this twilight economy. The consequences are getting clearer and clearer. If the courier falls off his bike, that's his problem. If a courier doesn't get orders, he doesn't get paid. No matter how hard he bikes, he can never earn the minimum wage by working there. That's not right. Everyone knows, but we're still looking away from it. For Forward, it is clear that everyone is entitled to a fair wage and to strong social protection, including within the platform economy. That is a basic condition, because why would anyone else accept that work? The answer is simple, because they have no choice. We now see that behind those accounts and behind the Deliveroo app there is an entire machine of abuse. In a world without control, the road to abuse was quickly found. There is no other way to do that, because who is prepared to do that work and to run all these risks as a self-employed person without the benefits of the independent status? They're just the most vulnerable, often people without papers. Deliveroo knows that and doesn't do anything about it. For Forward, that is unacceptable. It is therefore a good thing that the real bike couriers get their rights in court. This is a battle that has been going on for far too long for us. In the end, it is very simple, the excesses that now exist are caused by the working methods of Deliveroo. Competitors prove that there is another way. Minister, at the moment, not only does Deliveroo avoid his responsibility, it also enjoys financial benefits. What will you do to put more pressure on such organisations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u47	Madam President, Minister, this morning, the trial between thirty couriers and the company Deliveroo began. They demand that their work be recognized for what it is, i.e. an employee's job. To say the way they are, those people who deliver meals by bike are not independents. They don't have a little job either, on Friday night, to round up their end of month. It is workers who depend on the income of their work to live. They do not receive any social protection and do not receive a decent wage. Today we are talking about nine euros per hour. With the amount they receive, they have to manage to replace their bike if it is damaged, pay their hospital bill if they break an arm during their work. Smart also reveals that it accounts for 15 times as many accidents at work among couriers as among other affiliates. According to Deliveroo, they are self-employed. But who are the independents who receive orders from their clients? Who are the self-employed who are accountable at all times for the progress of their work? The couriers really aren't independents. Even ONSS is talking about chain work. This is the reality of a delivery man. He's connecting. He's waiting for the delivery order. He's on his way to pick up the order. He clicks on the button. He's picking up the order. He clicks. He's going to the client's house. He's coming to his destination. He clicks. He's delivering the order. Finally, he clicks, he clicks, he clicks... The platform controls each of the steps. Minister, you have launched a consultation on working conditions on the platforms. Have you ever received any results? When do you think you can propose a concrete solution to this long-standing problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u48	Minister, you have four minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u49	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions on an important subject that has become a daily issue and has become a topic of society. As you pointed out, today is the case before the Brussels Labour Court for the case brought by the Labour Auditorate against the food delivery company Deliveroo. The issue at stake is the determination of the social status of platform workers and, in particular, of this platform. Should they be considered as self-employed or wage-earners? This question, and above all the answer to it, is obviously essential to determine the social protection of these workers, who are often confronted with insecurity and insecurity. This decision will also be important in determining the level of contribution to social security and to the financing of our public services by the company Deliveroo and similar companies. The judgment is in principle handed down within the month, although the time limit may also be slightly longer, given the complexity of the case and the number of parties involved. We will, of course, follow the verdict closely. Indeed, this case law will guide the proposals to improve workers' working conditions in the platform economy. I will put it on the table very soon. The European Parliament's recommendation of 16 September 2021 is also important as regards the guidelines we could take. It is indicative of European progress in both labour court decisions and current and future regulations. However, the government does not intend to wait. It has taken over the issue, with the firm intention of taking a legislative initiative in the coming months. The Platform.be Consultative Platform, launched a few weeks ago, is also a valuable tool to inform and gather opinions, testimonies and proposals related to this platform economy and to the improvement of working conditions and the status of these workers. As you know, this platform is accessible to all, whether one carries out activities by itself through a digital platform or whether one is a user or simply a citizen who wants to learn about the issue. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to recall the existence of this consultative platform, which aims to gather as many testimonies and proposals as possible on the same model as we launched with my colleagues Frank Vandenbroucke and David Clarinval regarding the status of workers in the arts sector. The will is to start from the realities and difficulties of the ground to build something protective and just for these workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u50	In my contribution, I mentioned just now that this platform economy is increasingly turning into a twilight economy, because of these practices. We should not really wait for the court's ruling, some cases need to be dealt with immediately. In the dark, the abuses are sometimes no longer seen. Couriers are on their own, they dare not even go to the police in the event of exploitation or make a complaint somewhere. When they do, they just fly off the app. That impunity is no longer tolerated. No matter how easy orders are via an app, it is no excuse to circumvent our laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answers. We look forward, like you, to the verdict of the trial, the outcome of which leaves little doubt, as in France, Spain or Britain. Everywhere, it's obvious, they're employees. But the status of these couriers cannot be left to court decisions alone. There is jurisprudence and there is also the law. It is necessary to change labour law so that these deliverers can finally benefit from the status of employee, the rights attached thereto, as well as from the social protection and the wage that goes hand in hand. This race back to the 19th century world of labor lasted long enough. I am counting on you to support these workers in this fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u52	Minister, yesterday Assuralia officials spoke about the floods. I have to tell you that I was extremely shocked to hear them. "There will be an increasing trend," said the Federation of Insurers, "it can potentially be more expensive to insure in the future." These words come at a time when thousands of disaster victims are working day by day to repair, dry the walls, rebuild, but also bring in the experts, advance their disaster file. These comments come at a time when the Walloon Region has had to take over a major part of the compensation for insured persons. The Walloon Region will contribute EUR 1 billion, while the insurers will cover only 40% of the amounts, i.e. EUR 635 million. I also recall one objective element: the benefits of the insurance sector in Belgium are 2.46 billion in 2019, 2.39 billion in 2018, 2.2 billion in 2017; they are huge amounts! Therefore, Minister, coming today to talk about an increase in premiums for the future is simply unworthy. What needs to be guaranteed is not dividends to shareholders, but interventions with disaster victims and citizens' access to insurance. From the insurance premium to the indecency premium, there is only one step, which some do not hesitate to take. My question is simple. Will you remind insurers of their obligations and say no to the increase in the price of insurance policies under the pretext of the July disaster? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u53	Minister, this summer, Elio Di Rupo, Minister-President of the Walloon Region, gave a gift of one billion euros to the insurance companies. At the end of this one billion euro gift, we read in the press: "Will the floods increase our insurance premiums? Elio Di Rupo assures that no." Today, what do we read in the press? "Astronomical flood cycle: insurers announce an increase in future premiums." Minister, how do you explain that? This secret agreement that Elio Di Rupo reached this summer with the insurers, we must return to it. He has a deal on a matter that is federal: insurance; while he sits in the Walloon Region, it seems to me. You were present, we learned in committee recently, but as a witness, you said. What concerns us is what Elio Di Rupo told the insurers: "You take over 700 million, and the state will take over 1 billion. That's how we limit your spending." What is all the more disturbing, Minister, is that there is a secret clause or secret clauses passed at that time and that Elio Di Rupo refuses to reveal its content. Yet, Minister, insurance has made 15 billion profits in the last eight years. Not only have many victims not yet received a single euro, but they have not even seen the insurance expert come to their homes. And today, insurers are already announcing that they will increase these premiums. It is unacceptable for these companies to have the butter (the increase in premiums), the butter money (1 billion of the state) and the grimaces of the victims who see nothing coming. Minister, what is the content of the secret deal you entered into with the insurers? Why did you let Mr. Di Rupo take over federal jurisdiction? Are you going to remove this cap, which makes the government pay instead of insurers? Are you going to prohibit insurers from increasing their premiums?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u54	I thank you, Mr. Member, for your questions. As you know, the situation of the victims, I know her only too well because, indeed, I still have the honour of being a mayor of a beautiful town in Wallonia which unfortunately and tragically was hit by the floods of July. I share the indignation of the Walloon Minister-President over the Assuralia statement. I share your indignation, honourable Member, with regard to this announcement of a potential and likely increase in insurance premiums. This is indeed unacceptable in terms of the needs of the population and, as you pointed out, the benefits of the sector. It is also unacceptable in view of the efforts made by the Regions, in particular by Wallonia this summer in the context of an agreement which you say is secret, Mr Van Hees. However, it was presented to the Wallonia Parliament. It has been debated here in this House. If there is a secret agreement, it seems to me a bit special since it has been in the public square for weeks and months now. I would like once again to welcome the efforts made mainly by the Wallonia Government and the Regions in the context of aid to the victims. Mr Van Hees, you say that the minister-president of Wallonia usurped jurisdiction by intervening in federal law. There is indeed a federal law, Mr. Member. You know her and I know her, too. It is Parliament's responsibility to be able to review this law as soon as possible to take account of the situation and the future. We had a debate with the Prime Minister a few moments ago on climate change, on Belgium's commitments, on COP26. Unfortunately, we know that we are still at risk in the future of accidents and events such as those encountered and summer. This therefore requires a review of this law and a review of the insurance companies' ceiling of intervention. Skills that are usurped? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, As you know, honourable Member, the Disaster Fund has been regionalized. On the basis of both the law and the reform of the State, it was the responsibility of the Regions, and especially Wallonia, to intervene. I welcome the effort that has been made by Wallonia, both in terms of negotiation and the money that has been put on the table with the support and assistance of the federal government in this regard. Of course, we have begun negotiations with Assuralia to review this law, to review the ceiling of intervention and to take into account what we have experienced and what we may still live in the future. For me, it is clear that this cannot result in an increase in premiums received by insurance companies. We will be working on the revision of these laws, working on the revision of this ceiling of intervention, in particular by considering a ceiling of intervention not per event but per year, an annual ceiling of intervention in relation to what has happened. These discussions began with Assuralia, the National Bank of Belgium, as well as with experts from my firm and the SPF Economy. I will conclude my speech by repeating that this cannot result in an increase in premiums for insured persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answers. I can't see my neighbors, the inhabitants of the villages next door, and tell them that the premiums are going to increase. Here I have Assuralia figures between 2015 and 2019 for the fire and theft branch. Do you know that on average, for every 100 euros of premium paid in a home, 23 euros go in commissions to pay the sellers and 11 euros are profits for the insurer. Only 44% are used to compensate victims. Minister, I listened very carefully to your speech. You are announcing a reform of the compensation ceilings, which must not increase the cost of premiums in the future. Thank you for that answer. I repeat: what needs to be guaranteed is not dividends to shareholders but interventions with disaster victims and citizens' access to insurance. There is money to compensate the victims and future claims, and we will be behind you to undertake this reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u56	Mr Minister, first of all, you welcome the effort made by Elio Di Rupo in his agreement with the insurers. It is not he who makes the effort, it is the taxpayers who will give a billion euros to the insurance companies! Then you indicate that there will be a potential and likely increase in insurance premiums, and you also say that you will negotiate with the insurance companies. No! What we are asking you is to ban the increase in insurance premiums! That is what we are asking you: a clear commitment! Finally, you say that it is Parliament's responsibility to review the ceiling law. I'm sorry, but it's also your government's responsibility! Again, you say you'll see what's possible. Be aware that the PTB has introduced a bill - we have not waited for the government to do nothing - to simply remove this ceiling, this gift of one billion euros to the insurers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, during the discussion of the government statement we heard many ministers and colleagues saying that they were being addressed in the streets about the massive increase in gas and electricity bills. That is right, because that is also our concern. However, everyone was anxiously silent or the greatly increased prices at the pump. Colleagues, that also keeps people busy. The fuel prices reach record levels these days and that also provides a lot more revenue for the treasury. What is this government going to do to give that money back to the people, to the hardworking Fleming? What's this government gonna do to keep a gas stop affordable? Speaking of increased fuel prices is, of course, a taboo in a government dominated by red and green parties. However, motor mobility is and remains a basic right. Like gas and electricity, diesel and petrol are a basic requirement for many people. By the way, the Vivaldi government wants to do another scoop on it. This government wants to push the dagger even deeper into the wound, by removing and reducing the much-needed discount on professional diesel. For the transport sector, higher diesel prices and this government bullying measure mean a significant increase in the costs that will be redistributed to the consumer. The higher diesel prices will also be reflected in prices and will increase prices in shops. Touring specifically calls for the re-establishment of the so-called reverse cliquet system, in order to reduce excise duties and thus the price at the pump. And so to safeguard purchasing power now that the economy needs to regenerate. Minister, is this government prepared, as in 2004, to re-introduce the reverse cliquet system?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u58	Mr. Secretary, did you see the prices at the pump? Come on, from 1.3 euros per litre to 1.7 euros per litre for gasoline. How can anyone in Belgium still pay for that? As far as diesel is concerned, it is the same thing, Minister! How can you accept that citizens pay EUR 1.3 a year ago and EUR 1.7 today? It's impeccable for the workers! This is simply not possible, Minister. That's gonna work to pay for the gas to work. How can we explain that? That can't go on! People are giving up, Minister. I don't know if you're experiencing that yourself. A minister who earns 10,000 euros a month, with a driver, that's no problem, but if one has to go to the pump one has to pay 15 euros extra. Everyone looks down, but there's someone happy: the treasure chest. Mr Minister, could you perhaps tell Parliament how much is disappearing in the pockets of the State? I'll tell you, it was calculated by the PVDA study department: 500 million euros more in the pocket, via VAT, clack! People are gonna drop out and you're gonna get 500 million more. You will not be explained! It's not just you put 500 million euros in the pocket. Multinationals in the oil sector, for example, there are no problems either! Shell, $7.8 billion in profit over the first two quarters! Exxon Mobile, $6.3 billion! BP, $6.7 billion! TotalFina, $4.73 billion... for two quarters, guys! They're all making money on the back of the workers! And you, as Prime Minister, are here to say, "That's how you have to keep paying!" We can't accept that! My question is therefore very simple, Minister: you are raising 500 million more on people's back thanks to VAT on petrol and diesel. Are you going to use that money to reduce excise duties to a level at least equal to that of a year ago?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u59	Minister, you have the next four minutes for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am, of course, well aware of how difficult it is for our citizens, our families, to pay the rising prices at the pump for diesel and petrol. I also understand very well that at that time people are looking in our direction for a solution. Of course, we all hope that market prices will stabilise and normalise soon, but we cannot, of course, leave our families to their fate in the meantime. I therefore think it is logical that we should work towards a system that can relieve the pressure on our families. That system is the reverse cliquet system. The introduction of the reverse cliquet system can be a buffer. It could be a shock absorber for our families to ease the big price increases. I will therefore have the discussion on this within the government. I will argue with great conviction that we will re-establish control of the sharp price increases in this way. Our ultimate goal must, of course, be the sustainability of our mobility. So we must also be honest and say that the reverse cliquet system must therefore be a temporary solution in any scenario. It will be a shock absorber at a time of changing prices, at a time when we are going through a transition. I therefore continue to focus on structural reforms, on reforms that are structuralally strengthening the purchasing power of our families. 'Cause that's our assignment. This is the best way to protect our families and citizens from unforeseen changes in prices and thus take them into the transition we are experiencing. That's the mission of this government. That is a task that I will continue to support with great commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u61	Minister, our car is the milk cow of the state treasury. The prices at the pump are still one third of diesel and petrol, the rest are costs, contributions, excise duties and VAT. Like gas and electricity, diesel and petrol are a basic right and a basic need. A refueling operation must remain affordable and feasible for everyone. Socialist Minister Kitir is currently handing out many millions of euros in North Africa. But to do something about fuel prices there is apparently no money for those many Flemings who need day in, day out of their car to work, bring their children to school or visit family. This government is now bringing in much more taxes because of the greatly increased prices and that money must be returned to those hard-working Flemings and not distributed anywhere in Africa.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u62	Mr Minister, under pressure from the people and the PVDA, you have said here that you will now call for the reverse cliquet system to be introduced tomorrow. There's pressure in the government and the lines are moving politically. It's about time. We've been saying it for weeks. It has to be done. You can issue a C.B. tomorrow to reduce those excise duties. You can decide that tomorrow. Pressure's getting bigger and bigger. We're gonna need that pressure, too. You say you want to increase people's purchasing power. Then there's a second problem. Gasoline and diesel are not in our index system. When petrol and diesel become more expensive, wages do not rise. That is fundamental injustice. That costs hundreds of euros a year to the workforce, because of that health index that has nothing to do with health, but everything with business and money. Minister, make that decision tomorrow! We no longer know how to pay such taxes on gasoline! And stop talking about ecology, transition and tutti quaanti! As long as there are no alternatives, your solution is to make people pay. So she's antisocial. Green can't go without red.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u63	Madam President, Minister, you have seen, like me, for several weeks now, the appeals of the independents of the number, that is to say, of our tax experts, of our accountants, who are now working in the service of taxpayers and independents. They are confronted, as every year, with computer bugs on tax-on-web and on Biztax. But this year, it is taking on worrying proportions. They're really stalled in their work. You granted an additional period of time a few years ago, but that does not solve the problems on the ground. You have provided us with figures on the operationality of applications that do not seem to correspond to the realities on the ground. I would like you to be extremely attentive to their situation. You know they're dealing with a particular year. They must include additional figures on bridge law, regional aid for the self-employed. Tax slips from the caisses are not necessarily always adapted. What can we do for them? The authors of the petition, 3,500 tax and accounting experts, are independents of the figure, not the warms of the PTB that we have just heard. They are people who do not necessarily have in their DNA the will to be heard beyond the way they are usually heard. Yet, they call you for more sensitivity and less indifference to the fate they are suffering today. They're pretty worried. I'd like you to receive them. The authors of this petition would also like you to advise us whether you intend to grant additional time in view of the additional difficulties. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u64	Mr Ducrame, your time has expired. Your remarks are not audible to those who listen to us and they will not be recorded.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u65	Madam President, Mr Ducrame, the period of the final sprint of the professionals of the number towards the final date for the return of declarations has always put the professional association under high tension, which we fully understand. My services are working day after day on solutions so that this declaration can be made easily and efficiently so that the exchanges are realistic and tenable not only for the agents, but also for our administration. I am in close consultation with the sectoral federation on this matter. This year, the number professionals initially had five and a half months for the personal tax return and four and a half months for the corporate tax return. In addition, in collaboration with the Institute for Tax Advisors & Accountants (ITAA), we have developed an incentive to encourage agents not to wait the last minute, provided that there is no deferral for Biztax returns. For tax-on-web a last carryover of more than three weeks has, in the meantime, been granted, always in consultation with the ITAA. By the end of August, 30 per cent and 15 per cent of these returns had been returned, respectively. Over the past five days, as many Biztax returns have been filed as in the first three months combined. The applications of my administration did not experience a general breakdown during these busy days. I remain, of course, in close contact with ITAA to work together on the efficiency of the repository. I will continue to follow the issue closely in order to be able to provide the best possible service.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u66	Madam President, you should put your microphone a little stronger. I didn't hear clearly what you were trying to tell me. I realized I'd been a little long. I beg your pardon. Minister, when you are heard, everything seems to be going well. No, it's not all right! Otherwise, 3,500 independent of the figure would not have signed a petition to indicate that the problems were greater than usual. No, it's not right! This is not going well in the field! I would ask you to provide the budget lines that would allow us to have a more correct application system and simply allow the independents of the figure to work. And, please, when 3,500 independents of the number sign a petition, listen to them, receive them! I urge you to receive them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u67	Madam Minister, the police unions have announced punctuality actions, not only at our airports but also at the stations. I stand before you today not only because of the police, but also because of our citizens, the travelers. These actions could have been avoided, they didn't have to. You have a great responsibility for that. The punctuality actions are the result of a general dissatisfaction with many promises but few actions, dissatisfaction with the NAVAP scheme, dissatisfaction with wage bargaining and dissatisfaction with the continuing staff shortage. Negotiations have already taken place in connection with wage negotiations and they are continuing. Things were promised and people had good hope of it, but at the beginning of this week they unfortunately got the lid on the nose, because there will be no NAVAP regulation or a raise. The reason is that you haven't cleared any budgets for it. Unfortunately, this is probably the beginning of a whole series of actions. They will be extended to other cities and local police will also be involved. Our police people are waiting today for concrete answers, concrete actions. They wonder what to expect and where to go, with linear savings in mind. Not only the policemen, whom we expect a great deal from today, are the victims, but also the citizens. The government is holding the traveler hostage. Madam Secretary, what are you waiting for? How will you respond to that? How do you plan to get out of the impasse? Shoot in action, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u68	Thank you, colleagues. First of all, let me say that we are doing everything we can to strengthen the power and attractiveness of the police. That is why additional investments have provided EUR 50 million for this year, EUR 70 million for next year and EUR 90 and EUR 100 million thereafter. As you know, we have an active policy of additional recruitment for the police. Training and recruitment are also being improved. In other words, this government is investing strongly in the security of police and citizens, as you rightly pointed out. I also take up the challenge of wage conditions, which, frankly, could not be revised over the last 20 years. Of course, this must be done within the budgetary margin available. The measures announced at the airport are indeed the result of a strike announcement by the common trade union front. We have sat at the table with the trade unions on several occasions, but we have not yet been able to reach an agreement. The truth is that there is currently insufficient budgetary room to meet the high expectations of the trade unions and to conclude an agreement. I would like to emphasise that I have made it very clear from the outset that all partners must be involved. Police labour costs are a heavy burden on local authorities. About 35,000 of the 48,000 police officers are controlled by local authorities. We have always pointed this out to the trade unions, and I think it is important to continue to discuss it. We have established in the past that the invoice of the sectoral agreement, negotiated and concluded in 2018 by Jan Jambon, was placed unilaterally with the local authorities. For the time being, it amounts to EUR 74 million for this legislature. That's not my style. We need to keep the local authorities involved. I do not follow you when you say that there is no solution for the NAVAP. I have already said here that there is a solution for 2022, both for local and federal police. In the future, together with the police and the trade unions, we will ensure that we can keep as many policemen working as possible (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u69	Madam Secretary, your speaking time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u70	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u71	Mr Ducrame, I apply the Rules of Procedure to the letter in accordance with the wishes of Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u72	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u73	Mr Ducrame, if your group has complaints to make, you can do so in the Conference of Presidents, since this is its decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u74	Madam Secretary, the police are sitting on her gums today. In the budget conclave, the military have come to the longest conclusion today. Just like the police officers, they've actually been stalling for 20 years. They have rightly been given the prospect of a wage increase, and they are entitled to it. Unfortunately, however, our agents remain in the cold again. Within this purple-green government, I believe that they deserve respect. They will have to make savings again and will not get a raise. This government's attitude to the end-of-life scheme is reprehensible. In addition, they will be back on the frontline from Monday to maintain the intertwined corona measures. We ask a lot of policemen, but they get nothing instead. Madam Secretary, change your attitude and return to the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u75	Madam Minister, on Tuesday we were informed of a large-scale drug investigation involving raids in Brussels, Wallonia and Antwerp. There had been signs of heavy cocaine smuggling from Colombia in particular and South America in general. The federal prosecutor made a remarkable statement about this. Everyone was thrilled that the federal police, in cooperation with the police, once again attacked the drug mafia. I noticed a few things. Firstly, a huge amount of human resources has been deployed. At first glance, that was pretty huge. Secondly, despite all possible complaints that the Belgian police would not be up to standards technically and technologically, we managed to crack the Sky ECC cryptophone service. Thirdly, I was struck by the international branchage of smuggling from Colombia and by the fact that a number of large fish from South America have apparently been caught. I have a few questions, Madam Secretary. How many people and resources are we talking about? What was just deployed and what was the exact catch? Is the fight against drugs still a priority in the National Security Plan? It is because of this prioritisation in the previous legislature that the police and the police have been able to make such progress. What about international cooperation? What steps have you already taken to tackle the drug networks together with the United States, the Netherlands and, in particular, South America?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u76	Mr Geens, first of all, I would like to join in the praises of both the federal prosecutor and the federal judicial police for their meticulous and sustained efforts to combat international drug crime. The fight against the heavy and organized drug gangs remains a priority, both in the coalition agreement and in my policy statement, and certainly also in the National Security Plan which will be rolled out from the beginning of next year. Since the major and nevertheless successful Sky ECC action of 9 March, decrypted information from those phones has been made available to the other judicial districts by the specialised inspectors. Both prosecutors, investigators and detectives are working on it, which offers the opportunity to start up new criminal follow-up files as well as to use that additional information in ongoing investigations. This has effectively led to a large-scale action with a large-scale deployment of staff this week. And that's what's needed. Currently, the information is used in 275 criminal files: 196 new and 79 ongoing are enriched with the information now available. In the meantime, this has led to 450 arrests and the seizure of approximately EUR 40 million in cash or luxury goods. In this year, 77 tons of drugs have been intercepted and seized, which is an absolute record in our history. I agree with you that international cooperation is important. We have regular contacts not only with Interpol and Europol, but also with UNODC. We have also taken the initiative to work closely with a number of neighbouring countries, including the Netherlands, to combat these large-scale criminal networks. We need to keep recruiting and do side influx. A lot of vacancies have already been filled and we stay... (micro is disabled)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u77	Madam President, I only got angry at your predecessor once, and that was when he interrupted me as a minister. I have just used 30 seconds less so that the Minister could make use of it. Madam Secretary, I would like to convey a concern to the government through you. I was also Minister of Justice in the previous government, as you know. With the previous government, we have never been able to complete the data retention studies with regard to the European Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court. That has been a deep frustration for me, not only for me, but also for all security services in all countries. The way in which the European Court interprets privacy makes it particularly difficult to decrypt encrypted data and consult data. Madam Secretary, you must make a new law with the government. I would ask you to inform the Minister responsible for privacy, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Telecoms, Mrs De Sutter, that they must make haste with data retention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u78	Minister, the press is again reporting a major flaw in the security and protection of our medical and social data. It's in the newspaper Le Soir. This is widely reported and confirmed, moreover, by safety experts. This is Helena, an identification tool with which you can access a medical record without proving your identity and without a therapeutic link with a doctor. A complaint is rightly lodged with ODA by Medispring. Health data cover more than 17 million documents. It's huge! As a result, these 17 million documents are less secure than a range of other federal public service data such as Tax-on-web. Mr Minister, the Helena application has been approved by the Belgian authorities, in particular by your services. Protecting citizens' health data is a fundamental duty. It is, moreover, a full responsibility of the government. What is happening here is gravissimal and I weigh my words for the people concerned. Do you confirm to me this major flaw in the security of the protection of our medical data? How can you explain that the authorities, not least your services, but also those of health, have allowed them to do so? Will the patients concerned – almost 700,000 – be informed and warned? Will all healthcare providers, more than 35,000, also be informed and notified? Do you confirm to me today that this tool is completely disconnected? When will strong measures finally be taken to protect the data of our patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u79	Member of Parliament, on 26 October, the DPO, the Data Protection Officer, the BCSS and e-Health asked SPF BOSA to deactivate Helena software access as a means of identification in the FAS, the Federal Authentication Service, a few minutes before the release of a press article on a potential data leak. This access was therefore immediately disabled. This press article referred to a complaint filed with ODA regarding a potential security gap. If the facts identified in this article are true, honourable Member, let us be clear, it is simply unacceptable. At this stage, it is up to ODA to investigate the complaint and to identify the extent of the problem. In addition, I have asked my administration, SPF BOSA, to seek a full report from BCSS and e-Health on the incidents they have identified, their impacts and their follow-up. If you want more information about these two institutions, I can only refer you to the relevant ministers. Mrs Fonck, as you know, it has been a year since I have been carrying out important work, a substantive work which aims to guarantee the confidence of the citizens in the capacity of the State, of all of us here in fact, to manage the data at its disposal rigorously and transparently. It is essential that everyone at their level measures and understands once and for all how fundamental and certainly in a digitalizing world rigorous data management is. I would like to reassure you, Mrs Fonck, that Belgium is not the Far West of the data, but sometimes we meet some cowboys. It is our responsibility to all here and to the government to bring them back to the right path.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u80	Mr Secretary of State, you say that if these facts are proven, that would be unacceptable. [[It's kind of like it's "neither seen nor known" about what happened before.]] It was still the federal authentication service that certified HELENA. HELENA didn't self-register. The faults are the responsibility of the State in relation to the authorizations that have been granted. You're sending me, as well as the patients involved and the care providers, to another minister. I see that when it suits the government, it's one and only, and when it doesn't fix it, "it's the others." What's going on is gravissimal! You have been telling us for several months that you will restore confidence and transparency in the management of citizens' data. Six months later, it must be noted that this is exactly (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u81	This concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u82	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 October 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 October 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. By e-mail today, the author of Inquiry No. 176 requests that the vote on motions be postponed until the next plenary session. By mail today, the interplelant of interpellation requests no. 176 to postpone the vote on the motions for resolutions on this interplay to the next plenary session. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I propose that you include in the agenda of today's plenary session: - the draft law approving the legislative cooperation agreement of 26 October 2021 amending the cooperation agreement of 14 July 2021 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the French Community, the German-speaking Community, the Joint Community Commission, the Walloon Region and the French Community Commission concerning the processing of data relating to the EU Digital VOCID certificate and the Covid Safe Ticket, the PLF and the processing of personal data of employed persons and self-employed persons living or residing abroad carrying out activities in Belgium, No 2288/1. I propose that you enter on the agenda of today's plenary session: - the draft legislative cooperation agreement of 26 October 2021 amending the cooperation agreement of 14 July 2021 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the French Community, the German-speaking Community, the Joint Community Committee, the Walloon Region and the French Community Commission on the processing of data relating to the EU-COVID digital certificate, the Covid Safe Ticket, the PLF and the processing of personal data of employees or self-employed persons residing or residing abroad who carry out activities in Belgium, No. 2288/1. No observation? Are you sure you don't mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u83	Madam President, if you see me running from one place to another from the beginning of this afternoon, it is because the Health Committee is now standing on the cooperation agreement that you have just mentioned. The chairman of the Health Committee is also present in plenary session. If I speak now, it is because the discussions are under way in the Committee on Health and a number of points have not yet been raised. To tell you what, the minister hasn't answered yet. I still have a very interesting point to discuss, particularly with the President. Madam President, the opinion of the Council of State had to be given in quite crazy conditions. I do not know the exact date of the deposit but it had to be returned in an extremely short timing, in less than twenty-four hours. Consequently, the opinion was given only in Dutch. There's a rule I haven't been able to check yet because I'm running from place to place. The secretariat of the commission was in the process of verifying this aspect. Yes or no, in terms of regulations, can this text be voted on in committee under the current conditions of the dossier? The answer has in any case not yet been discussed in the committee but does not seem - I remain cautious - to be positive. Therefore, deciding now, in plenary, to put on the agenda this afternoon a text that could not be voted on as it stands in committee today, unless the dossier is properly received in the coming hours, is obviously problematic. I absolutely wanted to intervene. I do not know if the chairman of the committee wants to add anything. It seems to me that we must allow the various points to be clarified in the Committee on Health before we can decide in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u84	Mrs Fonck, thank you. There are no other interventions. In fact, the opinion of the Council of State was given to us in Dutch. This one does everything possible to transmit the French version very quickly, that is to say within the next few hours. I therefore propose that the item be included on the agenda, which would allow us to move forward in the event that this dossier is complete in the next few hours. That's the proposal we're making to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u85	Madam President, therefore, if the dossier is complete and if it is voted on in committee - we will see how the rest of the work is going - it is only in this context that it will be included in the plenary session this afternoon. Is that what I have to understand?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u86	From the moment this text has been debated and voted on in committee, as we mentioned in the Conference of Presidents, it may come back to plenary, at least if you agree that this item should be placed on the agenda of our sitting. If it suits you, we are moving in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u87	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Cogolati, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u88	Madam President, the proposal to amend the Rule on which we have to vote today is relatively old, namely 12 years old. That may not be so much for an oak, for example, but for the climate it is. Indeed, knowledge in this area is evolving rapidly, rapidly, thanks to the mobilisation of young people around the climate and the proposals and publications of scientists, in particular of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the IPCC. The proposal to store CO2 at the bottom of the ocean may have seemed interesting twelve years ago, but given the whole climate debate and advanced knowledge, we would not accept that proposal to liquidate CO2 and store it in the porous rocks of the ocean today. The trial is, first of all, not very safe. Many scientists have already spoken out against the uncertainty of that process and the risk that we could probably face an even greater climate problem, in particular the acidification of the oceans by industrial pollution, in particular plastic, climate change and CO2 emissions. Oceans work like a CO2 pump. Our oceans absorb carbon dioxide, which takes the form of carbon dioxide in the aquatic environment, resulting in a reduction in acidity. The acid balance is broken, with all the consequences for fauna and flora, including the extinction of coral and shellfish. Scientists tell us that if acidification continues at the same rate as now and the oceans become saturated, they will become CO2 emitters themselves in a few decades. In this sense, the risk we take by injecting CO2 into the ocean is extremely great for the climate and extremely large for humanity. In addition, relatively little use has been made of techniques in this field. In addition, there is no guarantee that the CO2 storage will not escape afterwards either. Moreover, the IPCC clearly considers that the debate is only about how to reduce CO2 production, as the global increase in CO2 emissions is the biggest problem. By sending the signal that we can continue to produce the same amount of CO2, because after that we can store it in porous rocks or elsewhere, we are putting solutions consisting of binding measures to reduce CO2 emissions on the verge. In fact, if we want to drastically reduce CO2 emissions, we must take measures which would appear to be uneconomic for large companies or which would not follow the logic of the market. Of course, all the multinationals involved are pleased that we are considering CO2 storage, because that process offers a new market and a new opportunity for certain companies to make profits. But, ladies and gentlemen, it's another fake solution, it's not the direction we need to go. If we manage to store CO2 and to do so safely, there are still a lot of technical developments that are needed, and that is about a few tens of millions of tonnes of CO2. But today we produce 55 billion tons of CO2 per year. So even for the climate, which the fundamental debate is about, it is not a solution at all. The IPCC explains that if we implement its technical solutions, we could reduce CO2 emissions by 25% in a few years' time. That is the direction we should take and not one where we are happy and producing CO2, because we can store it anyway. Let us also apply the precautionary principle, as we rightly do in other areas such as health. So let us wait for the text to be approved until, for example, we have received the insights of scientists and answers to our concerns. Otherwise, Parliament will adopt a position that goes against what is needed to protect the climate. I have two further considerations to make. Firstly, public authorities regularly ask citizens to make efforts for the environment, for ecology through taxes or other measures, while it is not the citizens who choose the packaging of the products they buy, or for public transport. On the other hand, there is still reluctance to impose binding measures on the largest producers of CO2, namely the large companies and the fossil industry in particular. That is working with two sizes and two weights, which I find particularly disturbing. Secondly, what signal do we want to give? Either we signal that we are genuinely concerned about the environment and that we do not seek solutions that are dangerous to the climate and the environment, or we recognise that there is a difference between words and actions. In words, we in Parliament are all concerned about the environment, but in action we would continue to pretend that nothing is going on. I would therefore ask you not to approve the text and at least postpone the discussion until the scientific world's concerns, which I assume will also be expressed here, have been satisfactorily met.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u89	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u90	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2052/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2052/3) The title in French has been amended by the committee in "Bill approving the Amendment of Article 6 of the London Protocol of 1996 to the 1972 Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution from the Disposal of Waste, adopted in London on 30 October 2009". The title in Dutch was amended by the Committee in draft legislation approving the Amendment of Article 6 of the London Protocol of 1996 to the 1972 Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from the Sea from the Landfill of Waste and Other Substances, adopted in London on 30 October 2009'. The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u91	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u92	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these draft laws. [[Assent]] I propose that you devote one discussion to these bills. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u93	The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Jadin, who refers to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u94	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2074/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2074/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u95	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2075/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2075/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u96	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2085/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2085/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u97	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2121/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2121/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u98	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u99	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr De Maegd.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u100	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, I refer to my written report and I thank the services for their work. Madam President, I would like to speak on behalf of the Reform Movement on the ratification of this Council of Europe Convention, which aims to fight more effectively against trafficking in human organs. During the previous legislature, the law of 22 May 2019 had already brought Belgian law into conformity. It included new offences in our Criminal Code and adapted criminal proceedings to extend the extraterritorial jurisdiction of Belgian courts and allow for telephone taps. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that organ trafficking is directly linked to human trafficking and the commodification of the human body. This raises a fundamental ethical question: how can we put in place a system that protects victims who are taken from organs without their consent, a system that protects victims who are forced to offer their organs for remuneration, a system that responds to the lack of organs because all patients waiting for a transplant are in a very difficult, sometimes tragic situation, a system that responds to the economic disparities between rich and poor countries, a system that responds to the inequalities of health systems, a system that fights against the lure of gain, and the fight against medical tourism in countries where doctors, voluntary donors and people in need of organs turn a blind eye to their conscience? It is known that the Agence de la biomédecin française collects information on 300 patients who leave transplant waiting lists every year without having been officially transplanted or their health condition deteriorated. These persons are identified through anti-rejection medicines necessary for post-treatment. We need the ethics of the medical profession. He undoubtedly owns it. Nevertheless, it is never pointless to re-aware each other so that they never break a number of rules, even to save the lives of their patients. We also need to talk to patients waiting for an organ, often vital to them. Not all practices, all means of achieving one's goal, even to save one's own life, are worthy of self. A stolen organ that may be fragile may cause permanent complications for a patient. We need active police cooperation to fight unscrupulous doctors, desperate patients and money-grabbing channels to the detriment of the health of both donors and patients, in connection, as I said, with trafficking in human beings. Ladies and gentlemen, Belgium now has all the legal instruments to effectively combat this form of modern slavery. Health, police and justice professionals must work together to combat this scourge. We must, Madam President, be aware of the progress of this ethical fight. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u101	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law that we are discussing today and which the Council of Europe's Convention against Trade in Human Organs presents for approval is crucial. I can speak on behalf of all Members of this House if I confirm that again here today. We can say that trade in human organs is still very much alive today and often even more horrific than we can imagine. This trade is also taking place all over the world, including in Asia but also in Latin America and other countries, where it is mainly commercially inspired. The problem therefore deserves all the attention. However, we must not deny that in some countries there are also political factors. We must also have the courage to highlight this in the context of the current discussion, because we believe that the most poignant and degrading form of organ robbery and organ trafficking is the one organized by the state and directed against persecuted minorities. It is because this situation is still underexplored and too little is known, even in this House, as we noticed from the committee members during the discussion, that I take the opportunity to elaborate on the issue. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will forgive me if I am now focusing specifically on the situation in China, although, as I have already said, the problem does not only arise in China. China is a not insignificant country when it comes to the issue of forced organ trafficking. Soon it will be clear why I would like to elaborate. Recently, a few months ago, in particular in June 2021, twelve independent UN experts raised the alarm, including the UN Special Rapporteurs on Trafficking in Human Beings, Torture and the right to freedom of religion or belief. At that time, they were extremely alerted about the 'harvesting' of organs in China. In addition, they reported that the forced organ robbery has a political color, as it targets specifically ethnic, linguistic or religious minorities. Those persons will be arrested for no stated reason and taken into custody, where they will undergo tests and investigations. The results are stored in a database for live organ sources for transplantation. Hearts, kidneys, livers and corneas would be the most common organs that are removed. Medical experts, such as surgeons, anaesthetists and other specialists, would be involved in this organ trade. So these abuses are well documented. I refer here to a number of investigations, I will not go into detail, but I refer, for example, to the research carried out by Canadian researchers Matas and Kilgour in 2006, who discovered that the Chinese authorities could not or would not disclose the origin of about 41,000 organs transplanted by surgeons. There is also extensive research by China expert Ethan Gutmann. He came to the conclusion that no less than 65,000 Falung Gong practitioners were murdered in China because of their organs. In 2019, there was the ruling of the independent People's Tribunal, the China Tribunal, which concluded that there is no doubt whatsoever about forced organ extractions on, among other things, Falung Gong practitioners and that this is clearly a crime against humanity, which seems obvious to me. I also refer briefly to the statistics of the U.S. Dui Hua Foundation, which found on the basis of statistics from the People's Supreme Court of China, the highest Chinese court, that more than 40,000 people were convicted under Article 300. For the record, that article punishes all beliefs that are seen as dissidents in relation to communist state ideology. Among other things, the Falung Gongaanghangers are included. Human Rights Without Frontiers also concludes that the situation has actually only deteriorated in recent years. Those stories behind the statistics are sometimes too horrible to believe for many of us and for the whole world. They come almost directly from a cheap horror movie and yet the evidence piles up more and more. Moreover, these charges of organ robbery are more than 15 years old, so the problem is already older than the Council of Europe Treaty, which today is in favour of this draft law. I now come to the reason why I would like to discuss this briefly. Meanwhile, the EU continues to regard China as a business partner. Although the Chinese-European investment agreement is currently in the refrigerator, fortunately, exports from China to the EU continue to increase, customs figures show. This also applies to exports from the Xinjiang region, where the notorious Chinese concentration camps for ethnic minorities are located. Exports increased by 131 %. I find this unacceptable and hypocritical throughout the whole story we are discussing here today. Belgium also has butter on its head. We have seen at the beginning of this legislature that the Beijing policy which the Prime Minister has put forward is focused on openness and cooperation with China. The government recently ratified the bilateral extradition treaty between Belgium and China. I must not tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that human rights organisations reporting on the fate of the victims of organ robbery, as in China, are absolutely not talking about the treaties. Minister Van Quickenborne also recently indicated that China is indeed asking for extradition of the persecuted groups. I do not want to think further about the fate of any extradited persons, but in this story the results are known, I think. The victims and the organisations with expertise are not at all reassured. I wouldn't be either, Madam Secretary. I would therefore like to stress once again that we are right to pay attention to this and that we are implementing the Treaty here in Parliament. The rapporteur was Mr De Maegd of the MR. Mr. De Maegd, I wasn't going back to your name, even if we meet regularly. As Mr De Maegd said earlier, it is a question of sensitisation. For this very reason, I take the opportunity to point out this problem in more detail. I think it is clear that we in this country should stop spawning at China, which is an important subject throughout organ trade. We cannot, on the one hand, adopt resolutions full of fine words on human rights and, on the other hand, continue behind the scenes our little business with Beijing. In this way, we are actually reducing all our initiatives, in order to protect persecuted minorities and victims, to hypocritical lip service. It is high time for the Vlaams Belangroep to take action. These trade relations, or the investment agreement, and the agreements with China, must be reviewed and suspended if Beijing does not want to make concessions on human rights. Without a level playing field in trade and investment, we maintain systemic repression and, indirectly, organ robbery and organ trafficking against minorities, and our economic dependence remains a factor. I hope that other positions will be taken in the near future. The Flemish Interest already shows the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u102	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u103	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2173/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2173/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. Articles 1 to 2 shall be adopted article by article. Articles 1 to 2 shall be adopted by article. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u104	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur was Mr Defossé, who referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u105	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2180/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2180/1) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. Articles 1 to 3 shall be adopted article by article. Articles 1 to 3 shall be adopted by article. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. Ladies and gentlemen, we must wait for the results of the work of the Economy Committee to discuss the project on the use of explosives precursors. We must also wait for the outcome of the work of the Health Committee to address the draft cooperation agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u106	If I have been informed correctly, the votes in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs have just ended.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u107	They probably need time for the report, I am told.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u108	The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is indeed over. I'm just from there. Mrs Van Bossuyt is preparing an oral report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip136x.u109	It's gonna take a little time. I will therefore suspend the sitting until 5.30 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 28 October 2021 at 5.30 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, October 28, 2021 at 5.30 p.m.
