ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u2	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, hundreds of police officers and soldiers are now in Limburg, at risk of their own lives, chasing an extreme right-wing military threat. That's sad, first of all. The threat itself is not new. It has been known for a long time that there is a small group of military extreme right-wing ideas in the Defense Department. Worst of all, they learn how to handle heavy weapons and train to kill people. Madam Secretary, when I questioned you in committee about 30 potential risks on the list of security services, you stated in general terms that there is not much that can be done about them. That's insane. It is insane that a member of reprehensible organisations who want to undermine our country, who has already received disciplinary sanctions and who is on the list of security services, can train recruits and have access to heavy weapons. That is, of course, incomprehensible. Of course, this is not about ordinary civil servants. This is about people who learn to fight on life and death. I really wonder what would have happened if that man's first stop had been the market square of Leopoldsburg. The fact that no deaths have occurred today is not due to the fact that the man has not yet been shot. I find that really problematic. Mr Prime Minister, Madam Minister, I realise that it was only at the moment when he came up with heavy weapons that there was grounds for dismissal. That's a risk our society can't take. What legislation do we need in order to act more quickly and to ensure that such extremists do not have access to heavy weapons? Better yet, what do we need to get them out of the army before they become a threat to our society?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u3	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, this is an implausible story! At the moment, there is a manhunt around an armed man suspected of attempting to attack a virologist and the structures of the state. Thus in 2021, it is possible in Belgium to be military, to be classified as an extremist on the OCAM list and to have access to weapons. We may turn it around the way we want it, it's the bottom of the problem. This fugitive is on a list of some 30 military personnel followed by the intelligence services, due to their alleged links with supremistic movements. Madam Minister, you have already had the opportunity to address this matter before this Parliament. You then indicated that this information should be interpreted carefully, in that it includes persons for whom the investigation might conclude that there was no form of extremism. Yeah, that's right. Being on a list as such is not reprehensible in itself. But I guess, I hope no military is on the OCAM list just for liking three Facebook photos or stealing dessert from the canteen. The main question is the following. What the hell! What may be the facts justifying that someone is on the OCAM list but does not justify that same person being suspended or excluded from the army? Honestly, that's my biggest and most important question. Moreover, do you confirm that some 30 people are still being monitored, classified, registered by the State Security in the army? Can you tell us how these potentially dangerous people are being monitored? Have they had access to weapons they can take to their homes or not? In the light of these events, do you not consider, as some have pointed out, that there is now a real problem in the exchange of intelligence between State Security and military services? If so, how do you intend to remedy it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u4	Limburg and by enlargement our entire country have been in turmoil for a few days. Meanwhile, a motorway is closed, a lot of worried parents keep their children away from school and all kinds of reinforcements have been brought in. The situation frightens the people of Limburg. At the same time, the military are being put in a bad light, while they are risking their own lives for all of us. It is therefore only logical that we should ask a few questions. Firstly, how is it possible that a professional military who has been on the OCAD list since June 2020 could still be carrying heavy weapons? Secondly, how is it possible that a military as a disciplinary measure, as it were, will receive the keys to the weapons depot? It's like letting a pyromaniac guard be a gas depot. Finally, how is it possible that no action can be taken against a military with an extreme right-wing mindset, which must be followed up? First of all, we at CD&V ask for a quick and in-depth investigation. It is sad that the army suffers unnecessary image damage in this way. Secondly, we call for clear measures to be taken on the basis of the results of this study. Finally, we would also like to call on everyone, including in the hemisphere here, to condemn extremism in every form. After all, words matter. Words on social media are the ammunition of individual loosened cases such as the fugitive military. Prime Minister and Minister, what steps will you take or have you already taken to initiate an investigation? What measures can we take to avoid such facts in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u5	Prime Minister, Minister, since yesterday we have been looking for a highly-armed professional military who stole four anti-tank missiles and other heavy weapons from the Leopoldsburg barracks the day before yesterday. We have very strong reasons to believe that the man in question intends to commit an attack in our country. That is quite striking, because the man is known to the military intelligence services and is catalogued on the list of the OCAD as a potentially dangerous extremist because of extreme right-wing beliefs and views and because of his contacts. The man was already subject to disciplinary sanctions for the spread of hateful messages and the expression of death threats on social media, including to Marc Van Ranst. That's why he was transferred, as it were, demoted from a military police officer's position to the logistics manager of weapons depots. So he had access to ammo. That's how the cat is put by the milk. The VRT described it strikingly: it is as if someone with an alcohol problem is being transferred to the cafeteria to be employed as a bartender. Prime Minister, Minister, how did that happen? Does this have to do with a lack of flow of information with the intelligence services or with laxity? Or do we minimize the influence of and the infiltration by the far right in the army? Whatever they may be, we are still in danger of being the victim of an attack by an extreme right-wing terrorist. Mr Prime Minister, Madam Minister, will you examine the military police, specifically with regard to screening of its candidates? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u6	Your time is up, Mr De Vuyst.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u7	Prime Minister, Minister, the details of this manhunt have just been recalled by colleagues, with this potentially dangerous and heavily armed soldier. I am not going to go back to its history, but rather to focus on the very many questions posed by the situation that is happening today, which, let us say, must be particularly difficult to live for all those who are at risk. I am thinking in particular of Marc Van Ranst and his family. Minister, the situation was known, since the man's dangerous pedigree was well known not only to the security and intelligence services, but also to the Defence. He was in the sights of the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM) and was in the sights of the Military Intelligence Service, not for a month, but since last summer. According to several newspapers, he had been transferred from the barracks in Puisie to the barracks in Evere, in logistical assistance, while at the same time being responsible for the supply of weapons and ammunition. According to the newspaper Het Nieuwsblad, he had also been subjected to a new disciplinary penalty, which had led to the withdrawal of his security clearance at the end of 2020, for threats against Marc Van Ranst. Minister, what information did you have about this individual and his follow-up? How do you justify that a person registered by the OCAM and several times sanctioned by the army can still have access to weapons? What measures have been taken? I am thinking in particular of this potential role of influence with young recruits, since he was in charge, in particular, of shooting training. What initiatives have you taken to strengthen measures that were clearly insufficient? For the sole answer, you propose an internal investigation, but what do you really expect from an internal investigation, except that it does not break open doors, since the individual was already registered by the OCAM and had been sanctioned by the army? Madam Minister, we must take action. Screening is one thing, neutralizing is indispensable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, at this very moment, a heavily armed extreme right-wing radical, trained in combat and shooting by our National Defence, is on the run! We have no idea at the moment how this story will end and we can only hope that everyone will get away with it safely. The far-right terrorist threat within the Defence is not new. We know that some 30 radicalized people are present and active. My group regularly calls on the government to do so. The head of the intelligence services, in the media, and you, the minister, in committee, again assured us last month that the procedures existed to restrict the threat and that the danger was ultimately not so high. Today, however, we can only note that these procedures have not prevented a person registered by the OCAM from taking arms from a military base and leaving armed with those weapons. And be careful, it is not a question of small arms, but of rocket launchers, machine guns and handguns, of what to lead a true guerrilla! It's very challenging. Prime Minister, more broadly, we are wondering about the retention of these people in the Defence, but also of any potentially dangerous person in the public services, involving access to weapons and sensitive places. It is obvious that a person cannot be punished for his or her ideas from the moment when their expression remains within the framework of the law. In this case, this man was arrested in June 2020 for making death threats against Marc Van Ranst, the virologist. In addition, the Defence had itself filed a complaint against him for racism. Prime Minister, Minister, how is it possible that he was not left out? What procedures have been put in place to follow this person? What procedures are in place for other potentially dangerous individuals in other sensitive services? How is it that a radicalized person can remain a member of the Defence and have such easy access to weapons? How has coordination been achieved between, and within, the intelligence services and Defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u9	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, the events taking place in Limburg pose a multitude of questions, first of all with regard to the political orientations of this individual. Were they issued within the military corps? Have they been propagated within the military corps? Then comes the question of the weapons that this ex-military was able to obtain. Minister, Prime Minister, how is it possible that he has had access to weapons as heavy as rocket launchers? How could they have been taken away? How could this process not be better controlled? Finally, what will happen with those 30 soldiers who have been under the supervision of the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS) for some time now? For me and my group, it is obvious that they do not have their place in the army and that they will never have their place in it again. The internal inquiry that you have launched, Madam Minister, must be quite clear and transparent about the information we are waiting for and that the entire Belgian population is entitled to wait.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u10	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, I do not know whether to laugh or cry because we have a soldier who is so well trained that the rest of the army does not even find him. It's embarrassing. Madam Secretary, I do not know whether to laugh or cry, because someone who has been punished twice for extremist ideas, who has already lost his job with the military police, who has been arrested by the police and interrogated by the police and who is on the list of State Security, is given a runner to enter the arsenal. Madam Secretary, can you explain to me how someone could take four antitank missiles, a P90 automatic rifle, a handful of grenades, two thousand bullets, a handgun and a bulletproof vest unseen and uncontrolled? Can you tell me why the camcorder didn't work and that man wasn't filmed in our army? Madam Secretary, can you tell me why our State Security has not worked? However, we have two intelligence services and also the OCAD, which are responsible for monitoring the extremists, including some 38 extreme right-wing people, some 13 extreme left-wing people and others the jihadists. Madam Secretary, can you explain to me why that didn't work? Can you tell me why the ADIV, the General Intelligence and Security Service, which is there specifically for the army and for which 600 people work, is not able to monitor a military service there is only one military on the far-right list of State Security? Madam Minister, I really wonder whether the ADIV is an institution for the deaf and the blind or a security institution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u11	Madam President, unlike the previous speaker, I would like to begin by expressing my thanks to our security services, who are looking hard for that military. I hope they're really successful. Colleagues, let this be a wake-up call. For those who haven't noticed, the extreme right is a threat to our society and to our security. Didn't we underestimate that threat? Actually, I do. Since 2016, our security services and our State Security have been focusing on the fight against jihadism, which is entirely justified, but we have already warned at that time not to lose sight of the other threat. Madam Secretary, the questions have to be answered. This is a right-wing extremist, ended by the OCAD, with a history of death threats. How on earth is it possible that such a person with an entire arsenal walks out under his arm? Four rocket launchers and a P90 machine gun, you can't explain that, can you? There have been mistakes and we want the necessary explanation. There are other questions. Were the army and its military unit even aware of its OCAD signaling? It should be. Is the story true that the person concerned was demoted to arms carrier because of previous racist statements on the Internet, so he simply had direct access to the weapons warehouses? That's putting the cat by the milk, isn't it? I can't reach that in my head. How strict is the control within the Defense Department, within our army, if someone, a military, wants access to weapons? In our opinion, it makes sense for that person to be able to submit a security clearance. I assume that a person who has been terminated by the OCAD or who is on a black list because of extreme right-wing sympathies will not receive security clearance. In that case, we weren't in the misery we know today. Madam Secretary, I look forward to your answers with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u12	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, a year ago the former OCAD leader warned that right-wing extremists are trying to recover the health crisis via the Internet. Unfortunately, they proved to be prophetic words, because for two days there has been a search for a military with such ideas. You announced an extensive investigation yesterday. The right questions must indeed be asked. First of all, we need to find out how it could have happened. How can hatred and disinformation lead to such actions and assume such proportions? Questions must also be asked about defence. Why wasn't there a better follow-up, even though the man was on the OCAD list? To be on that list, to lose his security clearance and to be allowed to manage heavy weapons, how is that possible? Was there insufficient flow of that information or was nothing started with it? The investigation should provide answers to that. The OCAD and the procedures relating to the necessary security clearances seem to have worked, but what exactly went wrong with the Defense Department? However, it is important not to make the mistake just to focus on this case. We also need to learn long-term lessons in dealing with people who are being followed, security procedures and arms management. It's not normal for a man to be able to use anti-tank weapons. Prime Minister, structural intervention is the message. The staff shortage in the Defense Department is well known, and I'm getting signals that this file is linked to it as well. This government took action against this and 10,000 new soldiers were recruited. That is right, but it is a priority that screening and follow-up of these new soldiers is guaranteed. The quantity must always be subordinate to the quality. Mr Prime Minister, Madam Minister, can you give an initial assessment of the investigation you have ordered? Can you confirm that this research will cover all aspects, both in the area of defence and in the area of increasing right-wing extremism in society, but also in the area of defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u13	Prime Minister, Madam Minister, Defence – which today has more than 24,000 quality women and men serving our rule of law and democracy – is unfortunately being pointed out because of the gangrene of some 30 extreme right-wing individuals, all followed by the SGRS, as General-major Philippe Boucké announced at the beginning of the month. This follow-up, however, did not prevent Jürgen Conings, a military and adherent to this deadly philosophy of the far right, from acquiring heavy weapons and taking action on Tuesday, disappearing and leaving behind a letter containing threats of attack against the structures of the state, the politicians in general, virologist Marc Van Ranst and his family in particular and, through him, the scientific community. In the same letter, he states that he is ready for a confrontation until death with the forces of law and order. The latter – more than 250 policemen and 90 soldiers, to whom we express our solidarity – are still working to put the terrorist, probably hidden in the Haute-Campine National Park, where his car has already been found, trapped with grenades, out of order. These elements make it difficult to understand that a member of the far right, who was registered as a violent extremist by the OCAM because of his sympathies and effectively followed by the SGRS, is in operation. Minister, you made it clear in your speeches that extremism has no place in Defence. You have been firm in your actions, in particular by filing a complaint with the Public Prosecutor's Office against a former soldier who took part in the Boum 2 uniform. Minister, Prime Minister, how can we explain that a military member who has been identified as a violent extremist by the OCAM and apparently transferred to a logistical function for this reason can find himself in possession of such an armament? What about the screening of potential similar profiles within Defence? Finally, Minister, what do you intend to do to fight more than your predecessors against racism and xenophobia in Defence? Could periodic screening – which would come after profiling alone at the time of selection – be considered to avoid violent radicalization?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u14	Madam Secretary, you are not going through any high days in your office right now. Since your arrival, you have been making a mess of things: a heath that is on fire, no more physical tests for new soldiers, a failing digital wage system, a C-130 that has to be in Beauvechain. That's too bad for all those hard-working and skilled soldiers. Today we are experiencing a new episode with a corporal who walks out of the barracks with a whole arsenal of weapons, so to speak, to conduct shooting exercises. How could something like that happen? That is at the heart of the discussion for us. War material can apparently be taken home without checks and double checks, while there have been a lot of alarm bells lately. Last summer, this person was arrested by the police for death threats and was placed on the OCAD list as a potentially violent extremist. As a sanction, he was then moved to Leopoldsburg, so to speak, to gain access to weapons and ammunition there. How painful can it be? After persistent misconduct in December, according to the media, you were already Minister, an additional disciplinary sentence. His security clearance was revoked, but he kept gaining easy access to those ammo. Exactly a month ago, you were questioned by colleagues in the committee about how to deal with extremism in the army. You apparently didn't need to act against people on the OCAD list in any way at the time. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep our fingers crossed for a happy ending in this story, but regardless of the outcome, Madam Secretary, the responsibility of the hierarchical line, including yourself, is crushing. That is why we have the following questions for you, Madam Secretary. Is it true that the person concerned was on the OCAD list as a potentially dangerous extremist? How come someone with such a profile could continue to function and have access to weapons and ammunition? What do you think of your responsibility and that of the whole hierarchical line?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will answer these questions together with the Minister of Defence. The National Security Council has considered the matter we are talking about at length this morning. From the outset, the security services took this situation very seriously. The case was federalized and the investigation is in the hands of the federal prosecutor. The OCAD has also made an analysis of this person. It has been determined that this is a threat level 4 for him, while our country's overall threat level remains at 2. Since Tuesday night, the situation has been federalized. The Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the Crisis Centre are in charge of operations. Currently, more than 400 people are sweeping a certain perimeter to try to resolve a dangerous situation. The first analyses discussed in the National Security Council this morning show that the person concerned has been on the OCAD list since 17 February 2021. The Secretary of Defense will be giving more details about how Defence has dealt with the information that has been passed on. We have made an initial analysis in the National Security Council. The mandate for defence is very clear: internal procedures and internal controls must be strengthened. It is unacceptable that someone who is considered by our security services to be potentially dangerous should have free access to weapons. Together with the Minister of Defence, I gave that message very clearly this morning. What we are seeing here is this kind of access for someone who is registered in that way.... is unacceptable and we expect the Defence Department to take action on this very quickly. In general, our country is at level 2 of the threat established by the OCAM since January 2018. That does not mean that we must not be vigilant. We remain vigilant. Our security services are doing it. The OCAM list is a way to map the threat from some people in our country. The OCAD list also contains people called lone actors. Initially, that list was drawn up to identify the jihadist threat. For a number of years, more and more threats have come from the extreme right. The OCAD confirms that today there was one professional military on this list. Today there are more and more people on that list with an extreme right-wing background. This joins a more general security analysis. The threat from the far right has clearly gained ground in recent years. In addition to the jihadist threat, the threat of the far left and the far right is increasingly present in our country. Let it be very clear, jihadists, extreme right-wingers and extreme left-wingers are doing everything they can to radicalise their supporters by dehumanizing opponents, by holding a line of reasoning against them, by molesting people, by threatening people, by putting people away and by threatening them with physical violence. Whoever lives differently, who has other ideas, must be put aside. And if they have to, they're willing to use force for that. Let's be very clear. In our society there is no place for hate speech, no place for unbridled racism, no calling for hatred and violence is acceptable. Whether it concerns virologists, scientists, or political opponents, calls for violence are punishable by law and something that we as a society can never accept. In our society, there is no place for this, either with the authorities or with our security services, whose mission is to protect all of us. We cannot tolerate this at the heart of our society, and certainly not at the heart of our security services. That they are corrupt from within is clearly something that we can only condemn. This is something we are going to take action against. I'm rounding up. Repression is one element. Repression, however, will never be the overall solution to the challenge we face. Against hatred and violence must also be done locally. This must also be done by people who know what lives on the ground and by customization. The starting point for the fight against every form of extremism, terrorism or radicalization remains an inclusive society, a society where everyone counts and no one is left behind. Therefore, my final message is: let us not allow ourselves to be divided by situations such as this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u16	Madam President, Jürgen Conings has been a military officer since 1992. Until 2019, he led a career without stories as a rifleman and sniper. It was deployed in operation and subsequently integrated into the military police. Starting in 2019, it was gradually spotted by the General Intelligence and Security Service, especially for its proximity to extreme right-wing movements. He made racist comments on Facebook, after which the staff reacted by lodging a complaint with the police. When the case was closed by the Public Prosecutor's Office, he was subjected to four days of simple arrest. In June 2020, he was transferred to a support function, in support of instructors responsible for mission readiness abroad. He had access to weapons and ammunition to make them available to trained military personnel. Also in 2020, he was removed from his security clearance due to threats on Facebook. In this case, the individual was therefore monitored and an in-depth investigation was under way. Measures had been taken (criminal complaint, disciplinary sanctions, withdrawal of authorization), but it must be noted that this was not enough. Until the events of the last few days, however, the conduct of the person concerned had no longer been considered problematic by his hierarchy. It is not acceptable for such individuals to have access to weapons. As soon as such behaviour appeared, he should have lost access to weapons and been more closely monitored by his military hierarchy. An organisation responsible for the security of our country and its people must be able to carry out its own tasks and internal processes at all times without having to compromise. Recent developments show that there is no longer a comprehensive framework in the area of security. Despite all the difficulties, I am determined to act firmly, as I have already done with regard to military personnel or former military personnel who are insulting, racist or sexist on social networks or who flout uniform by using it for political purposes. There's no room in the Defense Department for extremists and fascists. In the short term, tough measures will be taken, such as a ban on entry to quarters or arms chambers, a suspension and, in the event of behaviour incompatible with the military status, dismissal. Security checks are carried out during recruitment. They're not enough anymore. I have been studying, for several weeks, an amendment to the Security Clearances Act and the rules on screening of military candidates. I wish to be able to increase the number of checks throughout the military career, as well as the civilian career. The possibility of linking these screenings to access to dangerous weapons and materials will be explored. Nor do I want the hard work and reputation of the thousands of other military personnel to be destroyed by a few who have no place in the Defense Department. Defense counts thousands of hard-working people, in all their diversity, working day in, day out in the interests of our country and its people. There are several internal investigations into what has happened over the past few days. The necessary services, including the ADIV, and resources were mobilised. The Inspector-General has started an independent investigation, which will have to establish whether there are gaps in the current procedure and how they can be filled as soon as possible. Clear choices will have to be made on the basis of the results of the studies. In the very short term, I asked the CHOD to take the necessary measures to strengthen safety and safety processes, in the interests of the organisation and society. As far as personnel policy is concerned, I will do everything I can to put things in order and to put in place a balanced, safe and complete HR policy. It was not by chance that I attacked myself as soon as I was appointed to recapitalize the women and men who make up the Defence. It is by strengthening them that they can be helped to carry out their missions to the Nation and to ensure that Defence is not permeable to these nasty ideas. Mr Buysrogge, I inherit the chaos, yes, but the chaos that you are at the origin of your disinvestment in this department, for having closed your eyes, attenuated the norm, accepted what was not acceptable, for having fueled for years the populism and hatred of the other. Yes, this type of individual, with this government, will no longer have his place in defence. With this government, we will make every effort to have this second breath so much needed by Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u17	Prime Minister, Minister, there are still many open questions and I suspect that the answers will follow in the coming weeks and months. I have heard a great deal of justified indignation here today, because all but one of the parties here today have taken the floor. It is good to condemn extremism, but indignation itself is not enough, something really needs to be done. Today, the law allows people to be members of shady organisations that undermine our country and then learn how to kill people in the army, for example. That's something that really can't be done, we can't wave it away. For Forward, a line has certainly been crossed. We have tabled a bill to deal with extremist groups. We will certainly continue to work on this because extremists do not belong to the Defense Department. They disgrace our army while our soldiers and the whole society deserve better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u18	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your honest answers. You admit that there was negligence. You even admit that there was structural negligence. I agree with you, never such an individual, from the moment threats were made, should have been allowed access to weapons. After that, I hope that you will not be left with it. The army is an essential body of the state, which deserves the trust of its citizens. It must not be splashed more than that by the unacceptable behaviour of a few. By fighting against this gangrene, it is the relationship of trust between the army and the citizens that will have to be helped to preserve and improve.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u19	Prime Minister, Minister, it is a good thing that measures are being taken, that action is being taken, that procedures are being tightened up and that investigations are being initiated. We absolutely must avoid blindness to red flags in the future. Extremism has no place in organisations that are supposed to guarantee our country's security. We must also tackle the root of extremism. We absolutely must condemn that. Words are important and important. All the groups intervened today, except the Flemish Interest. We all share the hope that the situation can be resolved quickly and peacefully, so that the peace in Limburg can return.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u20	Prime Minister, I remember you saying that extreme right-wing people are not wanted in the army. Unfortunately, that is not the opinion of the military summit at the moment. According to the Army Summit, there is not really a problem and they are military, despite the fact that they are also on an OCAD list. The fundamental problem is always waving away and minimising the extreme right-wing danger that is indeed present. You also mention all other possible forms of extremism and danger, including extreme left. In practice, however, we see the danger of extreme right, such as the fire in the Bilzen asylum centre, the presence of paramilitaries and right-wing groups in this country who go to training camp in Eastern Europe and prepare for the ultimate race struggle. There's a threat. That threat is real. It is your responsibility if there will be effective attacks on the territory. This problem must be tackled once and for all. We'll also ask for a hearing. We'll also ask the General Staff and the Chief of Military Intelligence to come and answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u21	Prime Minister, Minister, you say that this is obviously unacceptable, but you did not respond to the information you had about this particularly dangerous pedigree soldier, not today in the House. You've been here for many months now as Minister of Defence. What have you undertaken? What exactly did you know? As Minister of Defence, I can't imagine you haven't been aware since you took office. What strikes is your passivity to this very dangerous pedigree soldier. Your responsibility as Minister of Defence is engaged. Minister, Prime Minister, beyond words, it is now time to act because, yes, I agree with you that extremism obviously does not belong either to Defence or to the security services. Screener isn't enough anymore. We'll have to neutralize and rule out if necessary. It is now urgent, since it was yesterday that action should have been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u22	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you. We already have private right-wing militias in our country who are organizing training camps. We cannot afford that, in addition, Defence will train and arm potential terrorists. The security stakes for the Belgians, for the institutions, are extremely high here. We need to take the time to identify all the political responsibilities in this case and, of course, to set up – as you said – stricter procedures to avoid such episodes. Hate and violent radicalism have no place in our public services, let alone in Defence, which must remain an institution that guarantees our freedoms, our democracy and the security of our country. This event must be a reminder for everyone. The fight against hate speech must be a priority, because there is only fear and suffering at the end of this path. Finally, we also have another responsibility as politicians: not to participate in these media lynchings of experts who contradict what we would like to hear. Because by doing this, we are only participating in raising anger, which can then echo the ears of some and encourage them to finally act.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u23	Prime Minister, Madam Minister, as you have rightly said, let us not allow ourselves to be divided on a fact as serious as this one. Let us be strong in the fight against extremism in our institutions! They'll never be there. Let us be clear about this! Prime Minister, Minister, I also hear – and I am satisfied with it – that you intend to learn the clear lessons of this episode by strengthening controls, screenings and security clearances within Defence. That is absolutely necessary. I may also want to launch this message, since I love the military. I love these men and women who fight for us, who ensure our safety, who wear the uniform with loyalty and who defend Belgium for the just causes. Minister, Prime Minister, let us not undermine Defence by this fact, let us strengthen the positive image we wish to give to it, in order to create (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u24	Mr Prime Minister, thank you for saying that mistakes have been made and that there are structural problems that will be dealt with. However, only one capital error has been made: the one who gave the keys to the gun house to a freaked out extremist bears a crushing responsibility. That's where the big mistake is. Colleagues, we have a job to do here. There is such a thing as the Committee I that the intelligence services should check. Not the least politicians are in this, like Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Dewael, people with a track record in Parliament. You have the task of looking at the role of the OCAD, the OCAD, which had to keep an eye on things, has allowed this to happen, as well as the ADIV, which is the sole task of controlling those people, but which has not even succeeded in doing so. That Parliament is doing its job instead of playing the black guy straightaway. That is the first task for Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u25	Prime Minister, Minister, you gave the clear message that you will address the matter. However, questions remain unanswered. Should certain procedures be changed or is it a human error? Personally, I am also left with the question of the flow of information from the OCAD to the military and military units. There will be further investigations and we will continue to monitor the matter in Parliament. Almost all the groups stood in the gallery to reject right-wing extremist, violent behaviour, except for one group: the Flemish Interest Group. If it had been a jihadist, it would have been too small. We do not measure by double standards: violent extremism must come out, out of our society and out of our defense. Let the message be very clear: there is no room for jihadists in Defense, there is no room for right-wing extremists in Defense. This runs counter to the standards and values that our army and our military defend day in, day out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u26	Madam President, Prime Minister, we are now looking forward to the end of this crisis, hopefully soon. Thank you, by the way, to the hundreds of people who have been working on this for days. Madam Secretary, the investigation is ongoing and then we have to get to work on the results. I have every confidence in you for that. One thing, however, we cannot do, and that is to act blindly against the Defense Department. The man on the run doesn't represent our defense. The more than 26,000 other soldiers and civilians do, those who defend our security abroad, far from home, those who assist the nation daily in the fight against COVID-19 and those who save people at sea do. That's the soul of the Defense Department. Those are the people who represent our Defense Department. Finally, Prime Minister, this story proves once again that the fight against all forms of extremism must remain an absolute priority. Some online reactions to the actions and flight of the military are nauseating. We have all condemned them here, but one group chose not to. All democrats in this Parliament and in this country must continue to condemn this, must continue to act, for (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u27	Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, as you have pointed out, racism and xenophobia have no place in our administrations. They don't have a place in the defence and they undermine the reputation and image of our army. Madam Minister, the reforms that you have initiated, the reinvestment that you are making in the army and in its personnel will finally make it possible to have the necessary staff, to strengthen the various services and in particular those which will be responsible for carrying out the additional screenings that you call for and which will inform us of possible radicalisations post-recruitment. It's about our security to all of us. Madam Minister, as you have also said, if some of your predecessors here, if some of them on these benches and their speeches have helped to polarize opinions, have helped to promote populism, have legitimized anti-scientific discourse, if they have allowed racist words and expressions to be promoted or made acceptable, those themselves must know that this time is over. Racism cancer has no place in the social body or in the body of the state. He doesn't belong anywhere!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u28	Prime Minister, the image left here today is hallucinating. Let's all hope this ends well. Jürgen Conings, if you hear this, surrender, please don't make unnecessary casualties. Madam Secretary, many mistakes have been made in recent months. However, this did not happen at the time of the Swedish predecessors, but under your responsibility. That responsibility really needs to be taken because it is all too easy when you look at the past. This person was on the radar last year and has been on the OCAD list for several months. Yet he was transferred to a depot where he could grab into the ammunition and weapons. But today you manage to make gratuite accusations against your predecessors. I can't agree to that. Let's hope this story ends well. If that happens, it's thanks to the security services. However, if things go badly, I would not like to be in your shoes, Madam Secretary. Or you'll take the credit (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u29	Madam President, Minister, yesterday we came to the conclusion, we were very indignant and we were aware that the government has decided not to impose sanctions on Israel. We wonder what Israel still needs to do so that the current government or the European Union would take action or impose sanctions to ensure that Israel finally complies with international law. Madam Secretary, there is the illegal wall on the West Bank. There's the illegal occupation. There's illegal colonization. There's the illegal blockade of Gaza. There's the illegal apartheid. We know that Israel has already ignored 60 UN resolutions. Madam Secretary, imagine a burglar breaking into your house tomorrow and putting you and your family out on the street. He's gonna live in your house and you're gonna have to run. You're going to a camp. Then the same burglar who took possession of your house is going to bomb that camp, too. Will you also argue in favour of dialogue? Will you not then plead for sanctions for those who have evicted you from your home? That is what has been happening in the Palestinian territories for decades. Madam Minister, I cannot get the impression that we are always there as the chickens to lecture our strategic rivals and give sanctions when it comes to human rights and international law. However, when it comes to our self-declared allies, such as Israel, it remains with condemnations in words. Let's take stock of the situation. Since yesterday, we know that 227 people have been killed by the murderous bombs on Gaza, of which a fourth are children. Meanwhile, more than 15,000 people have become homeless. It is clear who the aggressor is and who the victims are. Madam Minister, if you do not want to take sanctions, what will you do about justice for the Palestinian people (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u30	Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, it is a new war. The violence between Palestine and Israel is the result of a failure of international efforts to resolve that conflict. Citizens are killed, children are targets and the buildings in which the press is housed are attacked. I think that now 3 D's are central: de-escalation, dialogue and diplomacy. There must be a ceasefire immediately and dialogue is the only way to find a solution, because we are in a vicious circle of hatred and violence and it must be broken. As long as we do not break that circle, as long as we do not find a solution to the root cause of that conflict, there will never be peace and security for both sides. The question is what we can do, what our country can do. Is there anything we can do? Yes. Madam Minister, work on this European Roadmap with initiatives and compelling measures to bring parties back to the table. Work at European and multilateral level to arrive at a two-state solution. Work on a new Oslo-bis agreement to re-enable the peace process. Deepen and strengthen the differentiation policy. Work on a humanitarian corridor. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions for you. Have you already started working on this European Roadmap? Will you, in consultation with the Länder, ensure that Belgian weapons are no longer exported to the conflict zone? Will a humanitarian corridor be established?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u31	Minister, tensions between Israel and Palestine have caused too many casualties in recent days. We regret and regret this new escalation of violence. She shockes us, she upsets us. An intense diplomatic activity is being carried out in various chambers in order initially to achieve a cessation of hostilities. I know your balanced determination to achieve this, and I trust you. The UN Security Council has already met four times and the EU Foreign Ministers met this Tuesday. Within these two cenacles, we see lines of cleavages that are not new. The Security Council has not yet been able to agree on a statement. At European level, Member States often find it difficult to find a common position on this issue. Belgium, through you, has a clear and relevant position: first and foremost de-escalation to preserve the lives of civilians and innocent people on both sides. The cessation of hostilities is and must remain our priority! Now is not the time for sanctions, now is the time. It is necessary for weapons to remain silent and for the European Union to be able to create a road map with incentives and binding on both sides. Madam Minister, since your last speech in plenary last week, what concrete actions and proposals have been made to the Foreign Affairs Council this Tuesday? Belgium alone cannot do anything, multilateralism is the key. What is the status of the twenty-seven discussions with Mr Josep Borrell? Finally, as stipulated in the Government Agreement, this majority is committed to fine-tuning the policy of differentiation towards Israeli settlements. What are the current leads on the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u32	Minister, the macabre count continues in Gaza: 239 deaths in 10 days, including children. At the beginning of the week, it was a road leading to a hospital that was targeted. A few hours later, it was a building housing two international press releases. This gear, Madam Minister, has one origin: the policy of colonization, expulsion and apartheid led by an Israeli government that is radicalised and fanaticized. Therefore, we must never let ourselves be deceived by a speech of equidency that would deny the reality of repression on the ground and the serious and repeated violation of international law. Madam Minister, yesterday in Kern, decisions have been taken and a road map has been drawn. Of course, it has been decided to respond to the urgency, and in particular to the urgency of a cease-fire, in order to put an end to the bloodshed. From this point of view, we believe that Belgium should take a strong initiative on humanitarian aid. On this issue, we have the means to be ambitious. But for my group, this urgency will not be overtaken by another urgency: the historic need to send a strong and clear signal to a government that is radicalizing, as I have already said. This government feeds on the violence of the settlers at the same time as it offers them a mandate of impunity in a policy of apartheid that we have been denouncing for a long time. Next Thursday, you will attend an essential meeting at European level. Can you therefore assure us that Belgium will play a leading role in moving forward on strong measures, which could force the Israeli government to finally be held accountable for its actions contrary to international law? How do you intend to work specifically on the issue of economic sanctions against Israel? Will working groups on differentiation policy be established? Will the issue of the ban on settlement products be addressed? Finally, is Belgium's humanitarian aid envisaged to support the Palestinian population in Gaza, which, I would remind you, has been under blockade for 14 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u33	Madam President, Minister, last week we also asked questions here, because the situation was terrible at the time. Even then children died, families lost their homes and the situation seemed hopeless. Nothing's changed yet. We are rightly concerned here about the occupation of our hospitals, but in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, 18 hospitals and clinics have already been severely damaged. A building in which the international press is housed has disappeared from the face of the earth. The warring parties are not equal, even if there are victims on both sides. Yes, Hamas is a terrorist organization that we condemn, but no, the damage on both sides is not comparable. We must not forget the root cause of the current conflict. Israeli legislation makes it possible to evict Palestinian families. Israeli legislation makes the colonisation of East Jerusalem a reality. Israel annexes and therefore violates international law and human rights flagrantly. Some politicians, in all this violence, will not go beyond shrugging their shoulders. They say that Belgium cannot influence that conflict and that there is no point in expressing an opinion on it. My movement doesn't accept that. A fundamental inequality lies at the root of this conflict. Even now we see the differences. It's about the destruction of buildings, of lives, of a future. Anyone who sees that as a democratic country must speak out and act. After all, indifference is the most treacherous danger of all. No one needs symbolism. There is an annexation in Palestine in everything but in the name. There must be a fight against this. Belgium, too, still allows goods that are partly produced in illegal settlements. That is how we maintain a system. Madam Minister, can you explain how Belgium is contributing to this (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u34	Madam President, Madam Minister, the violence did not begin two weeks ago, but with the attempt to expel Palestinian families to Sheikh Jarrah, as well as in 1967 with the invasion of the occupied territories and that in 1948 with the Nakba ("catastrophe" in Arabic), which resulted in the expulsion of 800,000 people from their homes. This morning, a party president explained that the government agreement should only apply in the event of a formal declaration of annexation by the Israeli government. This position is a profound lack of knowledge of the reality of the ground. The annexation is a process that has been under way for many years: the increasing expansion of Israeli settlements and infrastructure in the West Bank is part of the imposition of Israeli sovereignty by force. In this process, Palestinians are subject to the gradual grabbing of their lands, whether in Sheikh Jarrah, the West Bank or Jordan Bay. This de facto grabbing is accompanied by the denial of their rights. As I was telling you last week, we cannot allow ourselves to commit such injustice by presuming complexity or equidence to refuse to act. Equidistance is not justice. Without justice, there is no lasting peace. Therefore, equidistance simply cannot lead to peace. That is why we must act to bring justice back and impose it in this long-lasting conflict. Therefore, call for the measures to be taken as you wish – sanctions, provisions, reverrances – no matter what, but act! Act to enforce international law and to stop the systemic reasons for such violence: occupation, annexation, colonization and what Human Rights Watch and the Israeli NGO B'Tselem call "apartheid crimes". These are the roots of violence, which it is time to cut permanently. Minister, what diplomatic initiatives have been taken bilaterally and multilaterally to end the current violence? What are the bilateral and multilateral measures and initiatives to put an end to structural violence: occupation, annexation and colonization?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u35	Madam President, Minister, we are experiencing a high point in the conflict in Israel and Palestine, which is also a low point in the humanitarian field. We're all concerned about that. We have nuanced votes, including here, in favour of de-escalation, such as Mr Dewael. There are also extremist voices in that. Those are voices that are very explicit in hate speech. That's a little weird against the background of the discussion we just had. They think in a very one-sided way that they should push up the contradictions. Government parties join demonstrations where anti-Semitism seems to be the common thread. We have just received a very relevant question that actually puts the essence on the table here, in particular an attack by an Ecololid against your own party chairman. That means you're gonna get into some trouble here anyway. Are you going through the lines of your own party chairman, who rightly advocates a very nuanced policy aimed at the two-state solution and an internationally accepted solution? That's about the line you defended here last week. On the other hand, there is the extremism on the left, which is not only on the streets, but also in your government, and which comes to the Parliamentary gallery to criticize your own party chairman here. Madam Secretary, what is your attitude on this matter? Will you follow the nuanced line of de-escalation and finding solutions or will you follow the line of your left-wing coalition partners who advocate more escalation and hateful provocation as a government policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the many questions on the dramatic developments in the Middle East and on the situation there, which nobody can leave untouched. Our thoughts are with all innocent civilian victims and their neighbors. I am also thinking of the people who are now living in fear and uncertainty. Last week, during the plenary session, I discussed in detail the context of the escalation of tensions and violence in Israel and the occupied Palestinian territories. As you know, Belgium constantly condemns illegal settlements, the demolition of houses and infrastructure, as well as the expulsion of Palestinians in East Jerusalem and the West Bank. These practices are contrary to international law, international humanitarian law and human rights. The colonies endanger the viability of the two-state solution. Respect for the status quo in the sacred places is fundamental. I also referred to the missiles fired at Israeli citizens by Hamas and the Islamic Jihad, thousands of them. I have made it clear that this is unacceptable and contrary to international humanitarian law. Israel responds to these attacks, which unfortunately also resulted in civilian casualties. This is something we cannot accept, despite Israel's right to defend itself and protect its people. I have said it before, and I say it again: no matter where the victims fall, the deaths of civilians, and especially children, is always a tragedy. In an armed conflict, international humanitarian law is our compass. The principles of restraint, of distinction between citizens and warriors, and of proportionality, are the guiding principles. The situation and the circumstances are serious. It is therefore also that our country does not leave an opportunity to call for de-escalation and an end to hostilities. The question of differentiation had also been raised. I recall that our country has for years made the difference between Israel on the one hand and the settlements on the other. However, the application of the principle of differentiation can be improved. This is also the case for many European Union countries. That is why, in accordance with the government agreement, I announced my willingness to improve its implementation in my policy note already presented in November 2020. The services of the FPS Foreign Affairs have been entrusted, in collaboration with other federal public services, to examine the application of the policy of differentiation in Belgium. Next week there will be a technical meeting to take stock of the situation and see how to improve the application of European Community law and case law. This is a coordinating task of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because it has to be carried out by various government departments. The issue will also be discussed at European level with like-minded. At the diplomatic level, what actions have been taken this week? Last Saturday, I contacted High Representative Borrell and pleaded for the EU to do more. I really think she has to do more. An extraordinary EU Foreign Affairs Council was therefore held consecutively. All EU Member States (with the exception of Hungary) agreed on the need to call for an immediate cessation of hostilities. Many of us have also called for the opening of a humanitarian corridor for Gaza. As announced in plenary last week, I also called for concrete results in the form of a revitalisation of the quartet and a road map. The quartet consisting of the United States, the EU, the UN and Russia and the role of the EU in this is a priority. The international community must shoulder its responsibilities. The quartet met on 16 May at the level of the Special Envoy. We have also decided that the European Special Envoy Koopmans should travel to Israel and the occupied Palestinian territories as soon as possible. Crisis diplomacy is now needed. As soon as the de-escalation is complete, the quartet must get the peace negotiations back on track. The aim is a two-state solution based on the 1967 borders, in line with international law. I now come to the road map. I hope you give me time to finish, Madam President. The European Union, as Israel's main trading partner and principal donor, has a duty to take responsibility for it. Europe can and must contribute to the resolution of the conflict in order to restore peace and ensure security for all. That is why I personally concluded my statement at the Council with a call for an analysis, a roadmap of incentives and/or binding levers for both parties to the conflict in order to guide them towards genuine peace negotiations. We will therefore continue to press for this approach with like-minded countries. Finally, our country will continue to call for an immediate end to hostilities and for respect for international humanitarian law, international law and human rights in the United Nations in both New York and Geneva. There were still two questions concerning contact with the Regions to see to what extent they too can contribute within their competence to work towards de-escalation and peace building. I'll do it. Some also referred to humanitarian assistance. Belgium strongly argued for broad access. I will also speak with my colleague, Minister Kitir, to see what she intends to do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u37	Madam Minister, we take note of your answer, which is not really different from the one you gave last week, because you are sticking to the same point of view. You continue to propose it as a conflict between two countries on an equal footing, but that is not the case. You have just said that you want international law and human rights to be respected, but Israel must be brought to order. Israel must respect international law. Indeed, the government agreement states that if Israel continues to violate international law, counter measures will also be taken. So we call on you to finally turn the sentences, which always remain with words, into action. I've got to get this off my chest, too. The progressive parties, who used to want to fight Israel's impunity, are now part of the government and seem to have fully aligned with your line. That's just dereliction of duty. One simply continues to do so, nothing will change (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u38	Madam Minister, I come back to one point, which I believe is crucial, even if it is a policy area at the level of the Länder. Let us consult with the Länder to suspend arms export licences. Make sure no more weapons leave Belgium for Hamas and Israel. It is our duty to protect innocent civilians and children there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u39	Minister, you have a pragmatic path, that of peace, step by step. Thank you. It must be said that these populations also suffer the effects of personal agendas of their leaders, between postponement of elections on the one hand, inability to form one government on the other and rise of extremism on both sides. There is only one priority: weapons must be kept silent. Madam Minister, you are right, together with the European partners, we will be able to create an incentive and/or binding roadmap for both sides, rather than in vain shouting at hypothetical sanctions. I am pleased to hear that there is a common point of view in Kern. There is only one possible camp, that of peace. In recent days, demonstrations have gathered Jews and Arabs in Israel proclaiming their refusal to be enemies. Let's get some seed! Dialogue, rather than oil on fire! While unthinkingly, some – sometimes even at the local level – take initiatives that risk importing the conflict here, it is whole families who pay the price there. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answers. A path has been drawn. Before we hope to resume peace negotiations, we must put an end to what makes peace impossible on the ground. I am counting on you to move from speech to action, because we will be here to remind you that a population deprived of its fundamental rights and a government that is on a violent and radical path is not being sent back to back. We will also be here to demand sanctions because we believe that if this does not move quickly enough in the right direction, we will have to act to ensure respect for international law and human rights, no more or less. In conclusion, I would like to address the PTB colleagues who, on social networks, have committed themselves to an unworthy misinformation approach. You want to give lessons – you've just done it – but you're in a bad position to do it! In Burma or China, Muslim minorities are massacred, exterminated in labour camps, forcibly sterilized and you (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. As I said last week, calls for a ceasefire, de-escalation and the condemnation of violence are only the first step. That is not enough, because if the storm of destruction goes down, the problem has not yet been solved. The issue will then disappear, but for the people there, the reality remains. Reconstruction and restoration of buildings through humanitarian aid are necessary, but not sufficient. One can give children a new school building and a new home, but who will give them a new future? That is why it is time for a structural solution. The coalition agreement gives you a clear mandate for more than a conviction. I am therefore looking forward to the results of the announced discussions in and outside the government, especially those relating to differentiation policy. That is your mission, that is our message, that is what the coalition agreement requires of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answers. I also thank our friends at the PTB for their inflamed speech on human rights. I would have hoped to hear it yesterday and the day before yesterday during the hearings on the Uighurs question, but I think that some political choices are eloquent. Madam Minister, in La guerre de Troie will not take place, Jean Giraudoux asks Hector: "If the law is not the armor of the innocent, what is it for?" That is the substance of the question, Madam Minister. The law must be respected if we are to emerge from the war. That is our extremism, Mr De Roover, that of respect for international law. In order to enforce this right, we sometimes have to impose it. Indeed, the solution is not only humanitarian but above all political. It is important to go beyond the urgency of the ceasefire and diplomatic issues in this context. I hear today that the government will address the differentiation between settlement products and those from Israel. This is important and encouraging because, for the first time, a government explicitly links bombings and violence to the structural causes of the issue, occupation and colonization. That's the heart. That's the root we have to cut. This is finally Belgium's first step in this direction. More will be needed in the future, multilaterally or bilaterally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u43	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. The direction and the well-known road to the two-state solution, which we have defended with the Swedish Government, is, of course, the right one. You are right to try to find a nuanced approach to this issue. That evokes frustrated reactions to coalition members of yours, which makes sense, because they do not stand for de-escalation. Everything they do, here in Parliament or elsewhere, is aimed at a unilateral escalation policy with the spread of hatred. Know, Madam Secretary, that we support your nuanced policy and your nuanced course, the only one that can lead to solutions, across the borders of majority and opposition. We hope that you will be able to resist the pressure of the far left wing in your government, which must continue to respond particularly frustratedly to your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u44	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the day before yesterday an important agreement was reached in the government on the proposals made by Minister Van Peteghem, which should lead to the greening of our fleet, with the leverage of commercial vehicles. A clear framework and a clear timeline provide a clear investment framework for an accelerated evolution towards less CO2 emissions and better air quality, resulting in a healthier living environment. This is an important agreement, which will make an important contribution to the ambitious climate objectives set by this government. Of course, this is not the end of the job. Our mobility problems go beyond just these aspects. With electric vehicles in the traffic jams, the traffic jams of course do not solve. That is why we need to continue our efforts to seduce alternatives, to use the right means of transport for each journey. If we know that more than 50% of our journeys go over a distance of less than 5 km, it is clear that the bicycle can and must play a crucial role in this. For bicycle use in commuting, the bicycle fee can make an important difference and be the necessary push in the back. That was also the reason why Parliament adopted a resolution about ten months ago to generalise the bicycle fee and why the bicycle fee was included in the government agreement. The objective was to apply them to commuting generally. It is also the reason why I would like to present you with three problems with regard to the bicycle fee, Minister. Firstly, we continue to receive reports that speed pedelec users are not entitled to a bicycle fee, while others do. I think you should confirm once again that this distinction should no longer be made. Secondly, SNCB (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u45	Your time is up, Mr Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u46	Madam President, Minister, our mobility solutions at different levels of government address a number of issues: improving air quality – 9,000 people die prematurely every year because of air pollution – and reducing congestion in cities and providing mobility solutions that are accessible to all to move better and differently. This includes modal shift and solutions to enhance the attractiveness of public transport, as well as active modes, including cycling. In this regard, I am concerned about the paradoxical situation of SNCB and Infrabel staff, which to date has not had any compensation for the use of bicycles when travelling from home to work. It's triple incomprehensible. First, it is incomprehensible because this possibility has existed in the public service for 20 years and the bicycle allowance has been made compulsory in the private sector. Secondly, it is incomprehensible given the missions of SNCB, the backbone of our mobility project. Finally, it is incomprehensible for SNCB staff members who, given their schedules, do not always have a bus to return home when they finish late, and who are not encouraged to use the bike. Mr Minister, given that discussions are under way and that agreement has been reached in these public undertakings, I would like to ask you three questions. Will SNCB and Infrabel finally offer a bicycle allowance to their staff? If so, how? Finally, what role have you been able to play in this matter, particularly in view of the government agreement, which actually commits us to an ambitious strategy for the train and for the bike?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u47	Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Parent, thank you for your questions. We are not talking enough about bicycles in this Parliament, but I am counting, with your help, on making sure that this changes. The enthusiasm for cycling is becoming more and more important, as we can see in the streets of Brussels, and I welcome it, of course. Its use continues to increase. Cycling is good for health, it's good for mobility, it's good for the economy and it's good for the climate. I have some good news for you, too. I am very glad that I can announce that our railway workers will also be encouraged from now on to come to work by bike. This is a scoop for Parliament, as from 1 June all Belgian railway workers will be able to receive a subsidy for commuting by bicycle. This decision was confirmed on Monday 17 May by the National Joint Commission, the highest body of social dialogue at the railway company. This fee will be granted to all railway staff, SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail, who use the bike for part or the entire journey between their home and workshop. This allowance will amount to €0.24 per kilometre with a minimum of 1 kilometre and, to begin with, a maximum of 10 kilometres in compensation per journey. The allowance may also be paid when the use of the bicycle is combined with the use of public transport, which is a good way to further encourage the use of the bicycle in addition to travel by train, bus or metro. The BiketoWork app can be used. Payment of the allowance will automatically be calculated on the basis of the mileage travelled. I am very pleased with this fine step forward because this has been a long time awaited. Mr Van den Bergh, you should be pleased. I am therefore satisfied with the decision taken on my question. It is good that the bicycle fee is introduced by these three public companies. We will evaluate them later and, if possible, expand them. The SNCB is an example. This is normal for a public company that is the backbone of our mobility. In addition, Mr Van den Bergh, the government agreement provides for the general improvement of access to the bicycle allowance for all workers, whether they use an electric bicycle or not. This is not only my responsibility as Minister for Mobility, but also that of my colleagues in charge of employment or finance, as well as social consultation. I confirm that I will put this topic on the agenda in the coming weeks, alongside other initiatives for cycling. Long live the bike!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u48	Madam President, Minister, you tell me to be happy. It would still be wrong for a public undertaking, in the middle of the sustainable transport and mobility sector, not to grant a bicycle fee. That was a pebble in the shoe for the past ten years. So I'm glad there's been a breakthrough. However, I am only half happy with it because, in my view, it is only half a solution. Why that 11 kilometers isn't reimbursed is a complete mystery to me. I have just indicated that I am convinced that the bicycle fee can make a difference. In companies where the bicycle fee is paid, twice as many people come to work by bicycle as in other companies. That is a small effort or a small cost with a large profit for companies, society and health. We must therefore make every effort to this end. I look forward to the next steps towards the social partners. I had hoped that the question was already on the table with them. You have not confirmed that here, which I regret. However, I assume that steps will be taken in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u49	Minister, thank you. I think it is good to announce good news here in Parliament. We're looking forward to it. Is the glass half full or half empty? This is a debate we are conducting. In any case, the bike allowance is a powerful tool to encourage more people to go to work on a bike. It was to be a right for all employees in that country, including those of railway undertakings. It's a matter of fairness. I am therefore pleased that you have moved forward on this issue, which has been stagnating incomprehensible for twenty years. The federal government is back on the issue of cycling, and I hope it bodes well, as you announced, for further progress in supporting cycling policy and intermodality between trains and bicycles from the federal side and in support of the Regions and municipalities that are also working on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u50	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it may and must be said that our current position in the corona crisis is a considerable achievement. Today the terraces are open again and we look forward to a summer with even more freedom, soon. The fact that we are at this point certainly has to do with the hard work behind the scenes, including and above all in our hospitals, and above all, I would like to stress this by young people, doctors-specialists in training in hospitals, who, in addition to their training, also take care of all those patients. With more than 6,000 men, they've given everything to burn-outs. For years, my movement Vooruit has advocated a better recognition and appreciation of the work of and also a better remuneration for doctors-specialists in training. Less than two years ago, two of my colleagues in the Chamber had tabled a similar proposal, but that was not enthusiastic. Yesterday, however, there was a breakthrough, at last a better statute and better social protection for those 6,000 people who have given so much. Apparently, it took a crisis to come to the understanding that we already had and before it could come to a breakthrough. Colleagues, I am the first to acknowledge that the final measurement is not yet in sight. Some things still need to be improved. However, the step that has now been taken is an essential step forward, the basis for building on it. Minister, that brings me to your important responsibility. Creating an agreement, which you have done well, is one thing, but its elaboration is another aspect. What will you do to ensure that those young medical specialists in training will feel the real difference in both their professional and family life as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u51	Madam President, Mrs Vanpeborgh, the agreement reached yesterday does indeed put an end to a situation which has been dragging on for 40 years and which is at the root of sometimes outright abuses in hospitals. Young people in training have to knock for a lot of hours, are underpaid and cannot organise their own lives without any social control. As the Flemish assistants in training themselves said yesterday, this is indeed an historic agreement. Compared to the situation today, with very different agreements, different from hospital to hospital, there will be a uniform training agreement. On average, there is a 10% improvement in remuneration. There will be better working conditions and better opportunities to reconcile personal life and family life with this work. There will be monitoring possibilities and a number of improvements in social protection. Last week there was a documentary on One, in which a young doctor in training testified how she had to continue working despite her pregnancy and a difficult time in pregnancy. We will ensure that young women who are pregnant are much better protected in this situation. However, you are right, there is still a lot of work to be done. Firstly, I will ratify the convention before us, so that it becomes generally binding and valid. This is a very important first step. Work on the second phase should then be carried out immediately. After all, this is only a first stage. The second phase covers further progress on social protection, including pension status. The second phase has also to do with the full integration of the representatives of these young doctors-specialists in training, in consultation within the RIZIV. That hasn't really been settled today. They were sitting at the table, but actually more as an observer than as a real negotiator. They have played their part well, but they will get a place in our consultation system. Improvements in social protection and training will also be further pursued. So there is still an important second phase, but the first phase is still taking place here. In addition to the EUR 10 million already earmarked in the RIZIV budget, we will seek and find another EUR 20 million to finance this agreement. By the way, the hospitals themselves do a lot in the bag. I should like to pay tribute to the negotiators, led by Mr De Cock, who, as administrator-general of the RIZIV, has also played a very important role, and to the representatives of the medical specialists in training. They have carried out a fantastic, firm action, but they have also shown that they are able to conclude an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u52	Mr Minister, after the healthcare premium, after the Health Care Staff Fund, after the better remuneration in the healthcare sector, we are back here today again with a demand for improvements for the healthcare sector. These improvements are absolutely necessary. There must be an improvement in the status and social protection of doctors and specialists in training. Once again, a firm step forward is being taken, and after years of stagnation progress is finally being made. There's still work to be done. You said it yourself. However, we also see immediately that the work still to be done is on the table and that further work will be carried out. One can dwell on the negative, but making progress and building on it is the only way forward. You are doing that again today, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u53	Minister, at the beginning of February shortly after the examination period, the Prime Minister announced that measures were being taken for our students. It goes without saying that the students are having a very difficult time during this period of corona. The federal government informed the Flemish student organisations that 1,500 additional psychologists would be provided. You also communicated that the OCMW's would receive an additional 30 million for the students who had lost their student job because of the coronapandemic. Today we are again facing an exam period and our students are still behind their laptop. They have barely been able to meet their fellow students and their professors physically during the lessons. A number of surveys carried out by colleges and universities produced truly worrying results. The mental resilience is completely exhausted. Minister, how much has already been paid to the OCMWs to meet those who lost their student job? How many students have they been able to help with this? Is 30 million enough? How many additional psychologists have you been able to use between February 10th and today to help the students move forward? How many students have you helped? The Flemish government has developed a test strategy based on self-tests, so that as many lessons as possible can be taught at all levels, in schools, universities and colleges. Those self-tests are allowed, but not validated. In seven weeks, the FAGG has been able to validate only three. That is very little, because the Flemish students are counting on you. What will you do about this? How will you validate more of those tests?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u54	Mr President, may I ask you to take account of speaking time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u55	Mrs Depoorter, you are touching different subjects. Part of your question is actually a matter for my colleague Karine Lalieux. I must apologise for not being able to give details of how the funds made available to the OMCWs have been spent, but I can tell you about the other points you raise. Our support for students dealing with stress is intended to prevent stress situations from leading to serious psychological problems. We have proposed making the group sessions offered by higher education institutions, with 15 students online or up to 10 students physically, which were paying for the students, free of charge. I haven't gotten the invoices yet. So I cannot tell you yet how much we will have paid back; the system seems to me to be working. There was a lot of enthusiasm at the universities. We worked out this together with the institutions of higher education in Flanders and the Flemish Universities and Hogeschoolen Raad, and for this we had ample consultation with the colleagues Beke and Weyts, who were also very enthusiastic. On the French-speaking side, we consulted Mrs Morreale, Mrs Glatigny, Mr Maron and the Pôles académiques, who were also enthusiastic. Again, I haven't received the invoices yet, but according to my information, the system is actually being used. However, it is not about recruiting psychologists, which we finance, but about making an existing offer free of charge. I take it from your question that there may be some misunderstanding about that. As far as the self-tests are concerned, I find that a little difficult. You give the impression that I would have to produce those self-tests myself. We can only wait until companies submit files to the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products and ask for their self-tests to be recognised. Three companies have come forward with self-tests and we have recognised them. We cannot, of course, do the production instead of the companies. Honestly, I don't think there's a shortage of supply. That does not seem to me to be the case today, but more companies that are making faster progress on the submission of dossiers would, of course, be welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u56	As far as the self-tests are concerned, Minister, you yourself told me that there are 600 files at the FAGG. If you carry on like this, it'll take you five years to get enough self-tests. The students have already graduated and hopefully the corona crisis is over. As for your reply regarding the 1,500 additional psychologists, the Prime Minister might rather announce on Twitter that they will be there than there will be an answer here in the Chamber. Minister, you have provided twelve additional psychologists for 270,000 Flemish students. That's almost nothing, that's a drop on a hot plate. There's no more resilience. Our students, our future, talented young people, are crying out for help, yet you are not going to meet them. That is a very unfortunate case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u57	Mrs. Depoostere, I don't know if it's you, but you're messing things up. Anything you can mix together, mix together. Maybe that has something to do with your professional background. Your question was about the student sessions. I replied that they work with a billing system, making the sessions free of charge. Now you are talking about the recruitment of 1,500 people in the first line of psychological support. It wasn't meant for students at all, but for the general population. It wasn't about that earlier, but I can also give you an answer. This is a long-term investment, where there is a great deal of consultation about how it should be done. Please try to keep things apart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u58	Minister, it is true: I am indeed a professional mixer. It seems to me that you, working in tandem with the Prime Minister, also have a communication problem. I read to you what was said on Twitter: "Congratulations to Alexander De Croo on extra support for students. It is good to hear that 1,500 additional psychologists are being sought." Your Prime Minister made an appointment with the Flemish student association, Minister. I note today that 12 additional psychologists are provided for 270,000 students. Apparently, neither you nor your Prime Minister, who does not even want to answer, want to pay sufficient attention to that population, which is the future of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u59	Mr Minister, public health policy in Belgium is, in my view, an important one on the front line, in a relationship of trust between the patient and his or her attending physician, in a long-term follow-up via the Global Medical Record (GMD). In this context, of course, teleconsultations have their own place. But my surprise was total when Proximus announced its investment in e-health with the Doktr app, allowing an appointment, initially free of charge, for teleconsultation with a random doctor, from Monday to Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. So not with his doctor, but with a doctor. Proximus asserts "to be sure of the success of its application, relying on the confidence of consumers of its brand". It's almost all said! The range of health problems of patients who can use Proximus is wide: childhood diseases, urinary or respiratory infections, covid-19, sleep disorders, contraception, medical certificates... In short, so many health problems that logically should be dealt with by the doctor treating the patient. But my surprise was even greater by hearing the government, through the voice of Minister Ecolo-Groen De Sutter, fully support this Proximus strategy. She even boasts the device. She explains that this will relieve the pressure on our health care system. How can you, as Minister of Health, justify government support for what can be called a 180-degree turn? It is no longer a question of giving priority to the patient's relationship with his or her attending physician, within the framework of the DMG. This may lead, in a large number of cases, to referrals to emergency rooms in hospitals already saturated. Is all of this likely to increase the quality of care? I don't believe it. How dare the government say that it will relieve the pressure on our caregivers? Minister, how do you justify all this? Do you support this initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u60	Mrs Fonck, I am convinced that teleconsultations will certainly be part of the medicine of the future. But this kind of application can never replace the relationship between the doctor and the patient. It is crucial for the physician to know the patient, background and background. That's why I didn't appreciate Proximus' initiative so much, which seems to me premature. Discussions with Proximus were ongoing and many elements still needed clarification. However, Proximus chose not to wait. The objective cannot be to contact a doctor arbitrarily to receive a teleconsultation. On the other hand, it must be to give priority to continuity and quality of care and to limit these teleconsultations to the only general practitioner who holds the DMG. That seems to me to be the way forward. This issue is being considered by the INAMI working group. This working group on telemedicine within INAMI is working on a structural deployment of teleconsultations and mobile health with clear conditions. An important angle of approach is to ensure that teleconsultations take place through the physician who manages his patient's DMG. Addressing physicians randomly is not the goal and certainly not from the point of view of the effectiveness of care. This advertising initiative is premature. Advantages were presented with regard to the confidentiality of the application, etc. But there are still a number of elements that need to be clarified and framed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u61	Minister, admit that we are in a rather special situation. I hear your comments and observations here. In the background, you agree with me. The government of which you are a member, however, has very strongly, very clearly shown its support for the Proximus initiative. I hope that in this matter, beyond the very friendly discussion here, you have had a rather strict and strong discussion within the government. I imagine the Minister of Telecommunications will reconsider her position and you will speak with her to Proximus. All this seems to me to be first and foremost a great communication operation and not a large operation aimed at increasing the quality of health care or a large operation in favour of greater support for our caregivers. Another challenge, Minister, is to establish a strong and clear legal framework for teleconsultation. That's indispensable!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u62	Minister, in December 2007, police officer Kitty Van Nieuwenhuysen was attacked with a kalashnikov by three Moroccan professionals with a fist-thick criminal record. Although they were sentenced for 30 years, one of the perpetrators was released in 2019. The second offender was allowed to leave prison during the day last year and is allowed to go home today with an anklet. Kitty's father responded to Radio 2 this morning. He said, "We are once again greatly disappointed in justice. This is not a fight but a fight in our faces." Minister, we are dealing here with perpetrators who were sentenced to 11.5 years and 13 years respectively, instead of the planned sentence of 30 years. The compensation that the perpetrators have to pay remains dead letter to date. Not a cent has yet been reimbursed. For years our group has been opposed to the systematic erosion of the penalties imposed by a world-frequent vision that has been held over by the Justice Department for years. This vision leads to an increasing frustration among the criminal courts. They feel impotent and have hardly any control over the future fate of most of the criminals they get. Not only does this policy of reduction mean a manifest erosion of the rule of law, it also creates great legal uncertainty and inequality, as one judge will take into account the reduction in penalties and the other one will not or less. Our group wants to abolish the law on conditional release. Hence my question, Minister, which I have already asked your predecessor. How far have the plans been made to abolish the law on conditional release, formerly the Lejeune Act, and replace it with a system which includes uncompromising penalties for such crimes?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u63	Ms. Bury, Kitty Van Nieuwenhuysen, a young, promising agent, was brutally killed in late 2007. A month and a half later, three suspects were arrested. They were brought in for assists and sentenced to 30 years in prison. We are now 13 years after the facts. Recently, a criminal court in Brussels decided to allow one of the convicted persons to continue serving his sentence under electronic supervision, following a contradictory procedure in which victims also have a voice. The sentence is therefore continued, but under electronic supervision. It's a judge's decision, not a minister's. This was recorded by Parliament after the Dutroux affair, when we all realized that such a decision should be made by an independent judge in a rule of law. As it should be in a rule of law, a minister of justice must respect such a statement, no matter how difficult it may be. However, the possibility of leaving prison early after that period is not in keeping with our sense of justice. That is why we have reinforced twice the old Lejeune Law, meanwhile the external legal position law: a first time in 2013, which allows a person sentenced to a sentence of 30 years to apply for release only after 15 years, and a second time in 2017, allowing a judge to decide for a number of serious facts that a person who is sentenced to a prison sentence of 30 years must serve 25 years effectively. In this way, we make Justice more human and legal security for the victims and also stricter for the perpetrators. I intend to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u64	Madam President, Minister, citizens expect you to work towards a more rigorous approach to crime. Always moving the case to a judge and stating that you are a minister and cannot do so is not an answer for society. The story reminds us of the story of Rich Guardian Marc Munten, who was shot by gangsters in 2001 with a kalashnikov. The perpetrators were released in 2011. There was a lot of commotion back then. The perpetrators had to spend only nine of their twenty-year sentence in prison. Politics would work on it then. The law would be amended. Police killers, child molesters and other thugs should effectively serve their time in prison. However, I do not see any change to this day. I have also been standing here with your predecessor on the Lelièvre dossier. That was the exact same story. So my question remains. When will you finally work towards a more stringent approach to crime?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u65	Madam Minister, in recent days we have seen that embracing a multicultural society involves not only importing foreigners but also foreign conflicts. We saw this at the pro-Palestine demonstrations in Antwerp, Ghent and Brussels. Don't get me wrong, I think it's fair to argue, even if I personally believe that all these pro-Palestine protesters are going to argue in Palestine and not here. Madam Minister, there are clearly two measures and two weights in the event of demonstrations and demonstrations. During a forbidden demonstration pro Palestine, in the presence of green and socialist politicians, hardly any corona fines were written out. I've even been told there was no fine. However, if one organises a garden party with more than ten men without a caterer, one must fear corona fines. A demonstration of a foreign conflict is tolerated in this country but a demonstration of our domestic freedom which is restricted like La Boum in the Ter Kamerenbos, which is banned. When immigrant young people argue, they can count on Mrs Verlinden's sympathy. When native young people argue in Brussels, they can count on Mrs Verlinden's matrak. Madam Secretary, when will you finally stop using double standards and two weights? If, for example, Flemish nationalists organize a similar demonstration in the same place, can they count on the same support from the police and the government as the pro-Palestine protesters?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u66	Mr van Grieken, you are trying to put together a number of things that are not really appropriate. You also make it a personal story. I think this is even less important. When determining the corona measures, you know, we distinguish according to the nature of the activities. It also goes without saying that relaxing is a difficult exercise. I therefore call now even more for measures that are clear and logical, so that they are as easy to understand as possible for as many people as possible. The rules for private meetings were discussed in the Consultation Committee and are now translated into a ministerial decision. I regret the confusion that was created in a television talk show, but I will continue to focus on making a ministerial decision as clear as possible. It is also good that people can receive people in small groups back home. Before the pro-Palestinian demonstration, permission had been requested in advance from the local government. It was the mayor who allowed the demonstration. There has also been prior consultation between the organisers and the local government. The initial assessment was that there would be a more limited number of people present. When it appeared on the ground that a larger number of people were present, the police, based on its expertise and assessment, aligned its police action with the event. In any case, I can assure you that the incidents that have occurred there will be investigated by the police. It must be clear that an Israeli-Palestinian conflict cannot at any time be a responsibility for messages of hatred, violence and anti-Semitism or calls for hatred against a community or a faith. The fact that the demonstration was requested in advance and that consultations were possible with the organisers makes it a completely different matter from the events in La Boum's Ter Kamerenbos, which were not requested. It was therefore not possible to grant an authorisation, nor was there any contact with the organisers possible. It was also the case that the police at La Boum did not appear until projectiles were thrown to the police and damage was done to the police cars and other cases. That is a different situation than this weekend's pro-Palestinian demonstration. In any case, I call on all local authorities to continue to monitor the enforcement of the corona measures, which I also regularly underline in my consultations with governors, with the Local Police Permanent Commission and with the Federal Police Commissioner-General. With the summer plan coming up, we can again look forward to many contacts and meetings. We can still look forward to a life in which COOVID-19 no longer dominates our contacts and our encounters, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u67	Madam Minister, perhaps it is the fact that it is today's last question and that we are fellow citizens, but I welcome the signal you are sending here, because you say that all those pro-Palestinian protesters who called for murder and violence will also be prosecuted. I am pleased to hear you say that you are encouraging local authorities to ensure that requested demonstrations take place as far as possible. I am therefore pleased with the turn you have finally taken, because our freedoms, including the right to meet and argue, are essential. I'm glad you changed roles. At the demonstration in the Ter Kamenbos you actively looked up the media to ban the demonstration, but now you have changed your shoulder. I am therefore looking forward to demonstrations that will take place in the future in the interests of our hearts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u68	That concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u69	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 May 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 May 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted. I have also received two motions from the group chairmen of the majority parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u70	Pursuant to rule 17.3 of the House's Rules of Procedure, we request that the draft law on administrative police measures in an epidemic emergency (No. 1951) be added to the agenda of today's plenary session, namely, 20 May 2021. With the application of Article 17.3 of the Rules of Procedure, we ask that the agenda of the plenary be amended to include the draft law on administrative police measures during an epidemic (no. 1951) will be added to the agenda for today's plenary session on 20 May 2021. The bill on measures to manage the VOCID-19 pandemic and other urgent measures in the field of health care (No. 1929) was adopted at second reading in the Health Committee on 10 May. The second reading of the report was published on 19 May. The plenary session on 22 April gave urgency to this bill. Therefore, the time limit laid down in the first paragraph of Article 85 shall not apply. Therefore, there are no regulatory obstacles to the consideration of this bill in plenary. The undersigned therefore formally request that the above-mentioned bill be added to the agenda of the plenary session on Thursday, 20 May 2021. The draft law on measures to control the COVID-19 pandemic and other urgent measures in the field of health care (No. The Committee on Health adopted its second reading on 10 May 1929. The report of this second reading discussion was published on 19 May. The plenary session of 22 April. has given urgency to this draft law, which does not make the time limit laid down in Article 85 (1) applicable. There is therefore no longer any regulatory obstacle to this draft law being dealt with in plenary. Therefore, the undersigned request that the above draft law be added to the agenda of the plenary session of Thursday 20 May 2021. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u71	Madam President, on the motion relating to the draft law on administrative police measures during the epidemic, document No. 1951, we held a wide-ranging debate within the committee responsible. This Chamber has accepted the urgency of this matter. This case is also pressing. I would therefore ask that this item be added to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u72	Madam President, on the basis of Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like the Council of State to give its opinion on the amendments made to the draft law tabled by the Minister to the committee and which led to the adoption in committee of the draft law. I am counting on sufficient support from my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u73	Madam President, the draft agenda has been further amended in a number of important points. I will quote a random example: the requisition of hospital staff, which is not a small detail. It therefore seems important to me that we should be able, under Rule 98.6, to seek the opinion of the Council of State on the proposal before us today. This request seems relevant to me. I propose that as many colleagues as possible join us in obtaining this opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u74	Thank you, Mr. Hedebouw. I can hear you. Nevertheless, we must first take a decision on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u75	Madam President, since the question of the amendments and their referral to the Council of State is raised by colleagues, I would like to mention that we have tabled an amendment for which we would like to seek the opinion of the Council of State. It concerns penalties, as this part of the government project presents several problems. Moreover, some groups of the majority, including the MR, noted in the minutes that certain questions arose in this regard. We would therefore like the opinion of the Council of State on the amendment that we have tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u76	Madam President, we have also tabled three amendments which will improve the democratic nature of the text. We also want them to be submitted to the Council of State. I would point out, however, that there is no question of engaging in an eternal exercise of fliber. Here, the text has been objectively changed. Objectively, our colleagues' and mine's amendments have never been able to get the opinion of the Council of State. I mean, it's not about playing this game forever, but in this case, for us, it's indispensable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u77	Madam President, I assume that we will first speak on the agenda. That is why I would also like to say a few words about the other motion, which concerns the addition of the draft law on measures to control the covid pandemic and other urgent measures in the field of health care, which is document No. 1929. We gave urgency to the draft law a while ago, because the text deals with a number of issues that are still very important in times of a health crisis. It is a question of ensuring the supply of resources. It is about reducing the risks of drug shortages and establishing a legal framework for the financing of testing. The draft law was then given the urgency. I would like to stress once again why. We also ask that this bill be added to the agenda. The report was online yesterday in the morning. That is why the majority asks for the draft law, document No. 1929, to be added to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u78	Madam President, there are already two points that the majority wants to add to the agenda today. Mrs Depraetere, we had the same discussion yesterday at the Conference of Presidents. The proposal has indeed been given urgency by the majority. However, you know as well as I do that its content is not as urgent at all. It's on for next week. For me, that may remain the case and we will be discussing it in plenary next week. For the other draft law, which the majority now wants to deal with urgently and toughly here, I would like to join those colleagues who do not want it on today's agenda. I would also like to support them in their request to submit the amendments made and the final version to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u79	Madam President, over the last few weeks we have discussed a rather interesting note in the Conference of Presidents, drawn up by the services in connection with the sharp increase in the workload of staff. I'm sure that's a very important part of what's going on with corona. We may have to find a regulatory solution here and there, but I fear that regulations are not up to the government's persistent tendency to regard everything as urgent. One has months to prepare a dossier and when it is being processed, it cannot suddenly be done quickly enough, with all the confusion and increase of the work of the services resulting in little respect being paid in this way. There is a general rule: when everything is urgent, nothing is urgent. In my view, the government would do well to show some restraint in this respect, even out of respect for the staff of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u80	Madam President, my colleague invokes a terribly important emergency in the management of the covid. May I invite him to read the text? Much of this is about retroactive validation of policies, some of which started a year ago. I am thinking in particular of testing and vaccination. It cannot be said today that there is an urgent need to vote for a text, while the vaccinators have already been on their way since the end of December. If you allow me, beyond the form with the permanent pressure of the majority on services, on the substance, it is also not audible. It is clear that a majority, the numerical majority, will impose the order of business today. But I say right away: we want to consult the Council of State on amendments to this bill, for several reasons. We had discussions in committee, on the run. The minister has sometimes said everything and his opposite between first and second reading. On the other hand, some decisions are fundamental for the future, including giving itself the power to completely bypass the concertation. It also means not being able to open the door to a free test. The fact of persisting in not involving general practitioners in vaccination. While the crisis has shown how much we lose efficiency when each level of power is popping in its corner, you choose, for the future, the option of strategic stock management that does not take into account important structures such as nursing homes. Of course, they are of regional competence, but we know how vital it is that they be involved in the approach to managing a pandemic. Madam President, especially for all these reasons, I have already tabled certain amendments in committee. We've added more. I would point out from the outset that I will not send all the amendments to the Council of State, but four of them. I'll give the services the details. All of this largely justifies the fact that, together with the Council of State, it is possible to change the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u81	Madam Chair, we have two motions, one concerning the Verlinden Act and the other concerning the Vandenbroucke Act. The two files are different. With regard to the Verlinden Act, the Council of State was very clear: if any changes were made in the course of the discussions, it would be useful to seek its opinion on those changes. Everyone agrees that there have been changes. I took the example of the personnel requisition. The 2007 Act refers to a requisition for an accident or natural disaster. Here is the famous question of whether medical personnel can be requisitioned. You know that the workers in the sector experienced this requisition as a humiliation, rightly. It's not a small detail. Whether we agree or disagree, this is another debate, but there has been a change between the preliminary draft and the draft. It is therefore proposed that an opinion be sought from the Council of State on a law that has been changed in relation to the preliminary draft. If the Council of State so requests, it can still be accepted. With regard to the Vandenbroucke Act, we are eager to be able to submit amendments of great relevance to the Council of State. Madam Chair, you are proposing two motions and I propose to proceed methodically to each motion and debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u82	The first motion calls for the draft law on measures taken by administrative police during an epidemic, No. 1951, also known as the pandemic law-deprecated, add to the agenda. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on the change in the agenda. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on the change of agenda. The change in the agenda was adopted. The amendment to the agenda was adopted. The second motion calls for the draft law on measures to control the COVID-19 pandemic and other urgent measures in the field of health care, No. 1929, also called the Vandenbroucke pandemic law, to be added to the agenda. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on the change in the agenda. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on the change of agenda. The change in the agenda was adopted. The amendment to the agenda was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u83	Madam President, I have taken note of the request made by some of my fellow Members to seek the opinion of the Council of State on the two drafts that are pending. My question is to vote in favour of this opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u84	Madam President, I would just like to point out that the original rather interesting way of working introduced by submitting a preliminary draft, which was delivered to both the Chamber and the Council of State, was sold as a model of new political culture. The Council of State gave an opinion on that preliminary draft. And then there's a final design. What was sold by this government as a total novelty of openness and new political culture has led the same government to refuse to seek an opinion from the Council of State on the final draft bill submitted. That's, I mean, unseen. That is an unseen contempt of the normal procedure of working. That is also an unseen contempt for the Council of State as an institution. In its opinion on the preliminary draft, the Council of State explicitly stated that it wanted to be consulted again when changes were made which were not the result of its original opinion. I would also like to point out that at second reading, a very useful second reading has revealed problems which could not possibly be taken into account in the opinion of the Council of State, because it was an article which was described differently in the final version submitted than in the preliminary draft. For example, there were three or four examples. The Council of State's question was therefore ignored. We asked for an opinion anyway, but that was brutally rejected by the majority in committee with abuse of the majority situation. The result is that we have had to go through a very flawed way of decision-making. Against this background, our question must be interpreted. After all, we continue to use the Rules of Procedure to try to ensure that the Council of State can do at least some of the work properly. I should also like to point out that, because of the urgency, special deadlines may apply to the opinion we are asking the Council of State. That is why it is perhaps a good thing that we divide up the work for the Council of State, hence our request under Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure that we should now confine ourselves to the parts which were amended during the discussion and which, moreover, concern amendments tabled by the majority, because it itself saw that the version submitted contained some shortcomings, which were also noted by the Legal Service of the Chamber. We asked the Court to draw up a legal note to assess the draft law submitted, and we found that it still contained quite a few shortcomings, which was even admitted by the majority, who tabled amendments to ensure that the amendments could still be implemented. Of course they have not been submitted and have not been part of the assessment by the Council of State, hence my question. Since a roll-call vote is requested, I would like to ask for the necessary time so that all Members are able to vote. We must not allow the covid conditions to be abused in order to try to stop a very obvious question with regulation. Thank you for your indulgence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u85	If there are no other interventions, perhaps I could clarify exactly what could then be referred to the Council of State. Mr De Roover, you are proposing the amended passages in committee as well as amendments 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50 to document No 1951 on police measures. On the other motion, we have had the announcement of many amendments tabled (28, 29, 32, 34, 20, 21, 40, 22, 33, 27, 25, 26, 39, 23, 35, 36, 30, 37, 24, 31 and 38). So, ladies and gentlemen, you see the work done!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u86	Madam President, as I said earlier, I am not sending all my amendments to the Council of State. What I intend to do is to indicate to the services the four amendments that I wish to submit to the Council of State. The others do not require referral to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u87	Thank you for pointing out exactly which amendments you would like to see referred to the Council of State. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you suspend the sitting for ten minutes so that everyone can log in. A text message is sent to all members to inform them of the vote. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u88	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u89	Consequently, the President will ask for the opinion of the Council of State pursuant to Rule 98 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, the Chair will seek the advice of the Council of State pursuant to Rule 98.3 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u90	Consequently, the President will ask for the opinion of the Council of State pursuant to Rule 98 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, the Chair will seek the advice of the Council of State pursuant to Rule 98.3 of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to point out that I am going to ask for the urgency of both requests for opinions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u91	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u92	Madam President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u93	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u94	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1925/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1925/3) The bill has four articles. The draft law has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u95	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u96	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Kim Buyst, Nicolas Parent, Joris Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u97	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1640/5) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1640/5) The title in French was changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on increased safety at level crossings". Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "proposal for a resolution on increased safety at level crossings". The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur is Mrs Zanchetta, who refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u98	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank those who have opened this interesting debate. Colleagues, rail traffic is safe first. This is particularly true of the ground-breaking consideration, which gives rise to a large proportion of accidents or near-accidents on our rail network. We have to recognise that there is a potential security risk in a cross-roads. Fortunately, since its inception, Infrabel has been investing heavily in improving the safety of rail crossings, through security measures on the ground. Many prevention campaigns were also launched, which certainly have their merit. Despite all these efforts, unfortunately, people still choose to take great risks at railway crossings, at the risk of their own lives. Sometimes, unfortunately, that has dramatic consequences. It goes without saying that we are calling on Infrabel to monitor this situation closely and to continue to make efforts to minimise risks. It seems to me only natural that there is broad support for that obvious request. Moreover, I am convinced that Infrabel itself fully agrees with this. Each party involved is on the same page. A larger point of discussion is another Infrabel's chosen measure to improve safety, in particular the abolition of consideration. When I speak of 'discussion', I do not refer so much to a political disagreement in this Chamber or even to civil society. After all, the discussions and hearings in the committee have shown that almost everyone, almost every party and every civil society organisation involved, agrees that Infrabel often does the wrong thing when it comes to abolishing rail crossings. The field of tension is situated between Infrabel, which believes it is right to abolish ground-ground considerations from the interests of rail transport, on the one hand, and local authorities, on the other hand, but also agriculture and small and medium-sized enterprises and other stakeholders in maintaining mobility by road. The abolition of a road crossing removes the risks of rail safety at one location, but forces all road traffic to another location, where the risks do not diminish, on the contrary. In practice it is mainly the quiet, less used consideration along the smaller highways that have been abolished in recent years. Rarely are the larger ones considering with more traffic and greater security risks. In addition, the abolition of a local community is causing other problems, such as mobility, accessibility and accessibility. Infrabel is less aware of this because these matters are simply not part of its core tasks. This tension field causes a lot of discussion. I refer to the hearings with the non-profit association Tragewegen and the VVSG which have spoken most strongly on this issue. The abolition of a railroad without alternative to traffic often has disastrous consequences and is therefore opposed, because local communities are divided into two and the opening of whole villages is undermined. When a local government chooses to keep track of the railway, Infrabel sometimes does not hesitate to put pressure on municipal authorities to get an agreement on the abolition of the road. We see such problems in different cities and municipalities in Flanders, for example in Lier, Asse, Deinze, Kalmthout, Lissewege and many other places. Both the Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities and the non-profit association Trage Wegen have testified on this in our committee. In this context, they spoke of an uneven partnership between Infrabel and the local authorities. There are many examples of municipalities where, for example, Infrabel blocks the construction of a bike highway along the railway as long as the municipal administration does not agree to abolish one or more of the plans. Infrabel sometimes goes too far in this respect. Infrabel also fails to comply with some aspects of the current regulatory framework. In this respect, I refer to Article 38 of the management contract and Article 12 of the Royal Decree of 11 July 2011. It is clear that this will have to be changed in the future. Before a decision can be made on a permanent basis, the impact on the local community and mobility needs to be studied in depth. The question of closing a railway crossing, which can be well-founded and justified, can only be settled by agreement of the municipality, within an equivalent relationship. That last point is important, because it is precisely that that is often not the case today. That is why the original motion for a resolution was also substantially amended. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their cooperation. Several of them, from various parties, have endorsed the problem from their local policy experience. They call in this resolution for a new legal framework for the abolition of consideration. In doing so, the genuine and equal voice of local authorities should be guaranteed. The inhabitants of local communities must also be involved and their social interests recognised. This resolution is certainly a step in the right direction, but as far as we are concerned it is not the end of this dossier either. N-VA has already put forward a proposal for a substantive improvement in the safety of the rail network and in the interests of road mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u99	Madam President, the train is one of the safest ways to travel. Mr Roggeman referred to the fact that there are often black spots where tracks cross the other traffic. Every year, there are about 44 accidents at these railway crossings in which 9 people die. In Belgium at the moment there are just under 1,700 railway crossings. Infrabel chose in recent years to increase safety by closing railway crossings and did so at a rate of about 20 transitions per year. This means that it will take another 80 years to complete all the deliberations. In addition, Infrabel spends 30 million a year increasing safety at railway crossings and 10 million of these on abolishing railway crossings. Since 2015, there has been an action plan at Infrabel to increase safety. The former Minister for Mobility, Mr Bellot, replied to one of my questions that Infrabel is also doing international benchmarking and that would have resulted in a list of recommendations. However, we see only a limited reduction in the number of accidents at railway crossings in Belgium, especially in comparison with many other European countries. The closure of the road also has serious consequences for local mobility. Several municipal authorities feel put with their backs against the wall. Neighborhood residents feel cut off from the rest of their village. Hikers and cyclists have to make a detour, which makes the modal shift difficult. Farmers, too, are no longer easy to get on their fields. In more than 60% of cases, there will no longer be any passage in the form of a tunnel or a bridge. Those two parts of the story result in the submission of a resolution by the Ecolo-Green Group in our committee. There will then be hearings, after which we will have amended the text. We have also entered into a constructive dialogue with all parties. This has led to the result that is before us today. In the resolution we make some recommendations and ask them to be anchored in the new management contract that will be concluded with Infrabel and to include them in the Infrabel investment plans. Our resolution raises a number of questions. In order to reduce the number of victims, more investment will need to be made in the safer design of consideration. There will also need to be more police checks on infringements and more stringent controls on crossing obstructed and closed transitions. It is clear that the current strategy of closing down consideration costs a lot of money and goes slow. We therefore call for research to be carried out into other solutions for securing consideration. For example, abroad, especially in Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Germany, we see greater use being made of obstacle detection with full barriers, where the system looks for freedom of movement. Only then will the train continue. That choice seems to be safer than the choice of half barriers. We could also examine to what extent a crossing can be reserved for pedestrians and cyclists. We have also included in the resolution that closing a road has a major impact on a municipality. Sometimes a railway simply cuts a municipality into two and pedestrians and cyclists have to make a big detour. It is therefore important to involve local residents and associations actively in railway transit projects. Mr Roggeman has already referred to it. The hearings made it very clear that there is a need to think carefully about the framework created for the abolition of a road crossing. We therefore call in the resolution for a review of the legal framework, a study of it and a study of how it can be improved, so that local authorities and residents are involved in the process and social interests can be taken into account. In this way, we want to halve the number of accidents and fatalities at railway crossings by 2030 and we want to develop a strategy to achieve zero accidents at consideration, as defined in the European framework of traffic objectives. So much for the content of the resolution before us today. All I have to do is thank all colleagues in the Mobility Committee for the constructive dialogue and cooperation and the broad support that our resolution received in the same committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u100	Madam President, thank you. Rather, I was intervening in relation to the next bill, and I will say a few words about it. It was recalled, and I think it is necessary to go back to it: according to Infrabel's figures, there were 45 accidents at crossings in 2019, resulting in 7 deaths and 6 injuries. It is sometimes "the fault of no luck" but these accidents are mainly the result of a mistake in the driver's head. It is on these accidents caused by an offence that we can act through this resolution and through the following bill. I don't know if I can keep saying a word or go back to it afterwards. At present, the Road Code prohibits any driver from "engaging in a crossing if traffic congestion is such that it is likely to be immobilized on that crossing". Violation of this provision is only considered a first-degree offence. This is the purpose of the following proposal. However, engaging in a crossing, while there is traffic, is insane and dangerous, even when the barriers are lifted. It is certainly more dangerous than getting into a road intersection when there is already traffic – even if it is forbidden – since we know that a train, unlike a car, cannot stop at the sight of an obstacle. It requires a large braking distance. It is also known that some motorists do not measure the danger or, in any case, take reckless risks. In general, however, victims of such accidents do not testify to the seriousness of the situation. There's never a way back. It is very rare to have only wounded. The outcome is very often and unfortunately fatal. That is why the following bill is intended to introduce this offence into the category of second-degree offences. Here, we don't want to increase the fines just to increase them. The aim is obviously, as it is well written in the text, on the one hand, to make it clear to road users that it is dangerous to engage in an unthinkable way on a crossing and, on the other hand, to ensure that greater priority is given to these offences, in the context of police and judicial repression.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be explaining two amendments from the Flemish Interest Group, but first of all I would like to stress that the purpose of this motion for a resolution is certainly our support. Its topical value is and remains high. In addition to the fact that the proposal, as it is now before us, can still be optimized by our amendments, it is certainly a document that has come a long way after debates and hearings, and this in a positive way, as has just been mentioned. I have rarely or never noticed such a degree of consensus in our committee. There was a general consensus across the party boundaries, but also among the various civil society organisations, such as the VVSG, Tragee Wegen and the Cyclists Association, but also among agricultural organisations, which were also invited at the explicit request of our group, with the support of our colleague Mr Arens. There were common concerns and concerns and also displeasure about the Infrabel policy, with the accompanying unhelpful communication as a major common denominator, and about the archaic belgian government from a Brussels ivory tower, away from regional and local sensitivities and away from sensitivities in various sectors, such as agriculture and port. Not only are these regional and local sensitivities taken up far too little, but also the local authorities and civil society organisations are too little or not involved in discussions or in the search for possible solutions. Once again, on behalf of my group, I would like to stress that security is a priority in this area, but the Flemish interest will continue to call for realism when it comes to closing down consideration. This is part of security, but it is also an important part of this resolution. We must have the maximum involvement and participation of interested traditional users and of sector federations. With regard to realism regarding the conclusion of consideration, I would like to refer to Mr Bultinck, the representative of Infrabel, at our hearing on 10 March. According to him, we absolutely should not focus on statistics and the annual figures to match or even increase the number of closed minds. An increase in these figures is by no means equivalent to an overall improvement because, as Mr Bultinck paraphrased nicely, the low-hanging fruit is now there. Read, the considerations for which it was more obvious to close them and who thus encountered less resistance, are already among them. I would just like to remind you of the often expressed perception, by Infrabel but also by Minister Gilkinet, that the number of reflections needs to be reduced in order to increase safety. There would be a fair link between them. That seems to us to be a bit of an easy argument, because less consideration does not, of course, mean less consideration. On the contrary, this will lead to a concentration of cross-breeds. If we consider five on a route to two, that traffic will of course be guided to those two. There are even more situations with a tractor between cars, vans and children who cycle to school. In this way, therefore, no sense of security is created at all. That's our vision. Of course, there are also regional differences. In rural areas or semi-urban areas, agricultural vehicles represent a significant proportion of traffic. All this does not alter the fact that political choices and policy choices must take account of a number of pillars and perspectives. Unfortunately, that's something that Infrabel doesn't always handle handy. One way or the other isn't. One rule is the other. One interested party is not the other. Closing a road in the city of Ganshoren and replacing it with a pedestrian and bicycle tunnel is of course a very different story than closing a railway crossing is the rural areas in Haaltert, Oosterzele, Lierde or Hoeselt. Then there is the problem in port areas. Unfortunately, we often hear bad news in the press. Recently there was another accident in Zeebrugge. In our humble opinion, that remains a little underexposed. We shall also give a symbolic explanation of this in an amendment. This motion for a resolution is an important step, but in the near future and beyond, we will be looking at the benefits it will bring. I come to the explanatory statement of the amendments. First of all, I would like to highlight our amendment No. 20 toe. According to request 6, an action plan should be specifically focused on the security of consideration and in port areas. The Vlaams Belangroep explicitly asks for the following clause to be added: "and this in close cooperation with these port companies." It is of the utmost importance to engage in constructive cooperation and consultation with stakeholders. Indeed, application 8 specifies more cooperation with actors, for example with farmers and municipal authorities. Since the resolution does not talk about the port companies, while the action plan in request 6 focuses specifically on the port issue, I think it shows some clarity in adding a sentence on the port companies. With our next amendment, we wish to replace Amendment No 11. We would also like to add the following sentence:'such as the construction of works of art in the form of tunnels and bridges that are accessible to all road users'. Initially, the text stated that options should be explored regarding the replacement of bridges or tunnels for cyclists and pedestrians. By naming cyclists and pedestrians in that section, other road users are actually excluded, which is difficult to reconcile with request 3 and request 8. We hope that our amendments will certainly complete the resolution as it stands. We also hope, as mentioned above, that this resolution will enable us to continue constructively in our committee in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u102	Madam President, I will be able to speak on this motion for a resolution as on the next point, the proposal for a law on safety at level crossings. So I will not repeat myself when we move on to the second point. An accident at a crossing is always an accident of too many. There is an average of one accident per week and one person died or seriously injured per month. That's what Infrabel's spokesman lamented a few months ago. It is true that there are still many level crossings in Belgium. There's about 1,700 left. However, since the birth of Infrabel in 2005, about 400 of them have been abolished at an average cost of EUR 1 million per site, which is not negligible. With this resolution, we look forward to further strengthening safety measures at level crossings with the ultimate goal of halving the number of accidents and fatalities at level crossings by 2030 and developing a strategy to reduce the number of accidents to zero. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the work of the former Minister, François Bellot, in securing these crossings. I am thinking in particular of the Royal Order of 21 November 2017 which he issued, amending the Royal Order of 11 July 2011 relating to the safety features of railway crossings. This order provides, inter alia, for the reinforcement of passive signs, the closure of private level crossings after each crossing and, where a closed system exists to secure rail traffic, the strict obligation to comply with the injunctions issued by the road manager's staff. There were many measures. Let us also mention the Railspect operation launched by and with the support of Minister Bellot to combat dangerous behaviour in the Belgian rail sector. It was divided into three areas: prevention, repression and awareness-raising. It aimed to continue the abolition of level crossings, the implementation of identification stickers (in 2019) and reinforced controls at level crossings with the railway police, the local police and Securail. In 2020, engineers at Infrabel began testing an anti-intrusion device designed by them, again under the auspices of Minister Bellot. This warningbox detects intrusions and triggers an alarm to warn the person in danger. This is a security aid which aims at an immediate deterrent effect. Colleagues, as you can see, we are with these resolutions and the action of this government in the continuity of an earlier policy aimed at securing as much as possible the level crossings so that, in the future, no more drama is yet to be deplored. We will therefore wholeheartedly support these two proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank the initiators for their proposal. We are all concerned about safety at the railway crossings and deserve our attention. The figures have already been quoted by colleagues. The problem is, of course, not new. In the past, Infrabel has drawn up safety plans to remedy them several times. There were also several investigations into the safest situation. Do we use half or whole barriers? Can we deploy ANPR cameras? Can we use other technologies to stop movements on the track when the barriers are closed? It has been a long search and it is far from finished. A solution which is very often put forward is the abolition of the consideration. The abolition of consideration is not in itself a problem if they are replaced by an uneven crossing. It is important for the debate to mention this specifically, because we are talking too quickly about the abolition of consideration. If an uneven alternative is provided, there is no problem in itself. If there are no alternatives or too few alternatives, we'll get into trouble. The hearings we have organised on this subject have clearly demonstrated this. The impact of abolishing consideration on the environment and on people who are used to using the railway crossing is enormous. We have the impression that this impact is sometimes underestimated by Infrabel. We understand the well-known point of view of Infrabel. A non-gathering approach is good for the company, but no crossing is ideal, because there will be no crossing with other road users, thus reducing the risk of incidents and technical defects, and because it is easier to manage. However, the impact on the environment is inevitable. I think that is sometimes not taken into account. The motion for a resolution points out this. The text calls for that impact to be taken into account. It calls for the local residents and users such as farmers and hiking and cycling associations to be involved in the decision to consider closing, which has so far been a unilateral event, as Mr Roggeman pointed out. In this sense, it is a good step to have further research carried out in this area with a view to establishing a legal framework. We will certainly continue to work on such a legal framework and more safety measures for rail crossings in the coming months and years. I would like to thank the initiators of the motion for a resolution, like Mrs Verhaert, for the following legislative proposal on the agenda, which can make an important contribution to the safety of traffic crossings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u104	Madam President, the PVDA-PTB supports the motion for a resolution, just as we did in committee. I would like to make a few points from the very interesting hearing, which we have learned a great deal from and on the basis of which adjustments have been made to the proposal for a resolution. Firstly, the hearing showed once again how difficult it is in our country to find fast and sound solutions in view of the fragmented powers. The railroad's jurisdiction is federal. Other parties are Infrabel and SNCB, the municipalities and the regions, not to mention the local residents, pedestrians and farmers, which we must take into account. In short, it is a very complex dossier. Secondly, we have learned from the hearings that the closure of consideration is often the easiest but therefore not the best solution. If we want to reduce the number of accidents on the railways, they must be designed in such a way that roads run below or above the railway line. There is a higher risk of accidents if one has to wait for a closed crossing. In order to avoid accidents and delays on the railways, therefore, major work is needed, such as the construction of tunnels underneath and bridges over the tracks. That, of course, requires enormous investments, and that is where the calf is bound. Infrabel still lacks resources to make rapid progress and to ensure that the rail crossings are safe. The current government has not yet managed to provide sufficient resources for Infrabel to secure a large part of the rail crossings and to minimise the number of accidents, as we all want. Another important point was the ANPR cameras, which were mentioned in the original text. The proposers wanted to check the consideration via smart cameras with license plate recognition. We didn't think that was such a good idea. This does not really have an effect on safety, which was written by Infrabel after the hearing. Using those kind of cameras at the railroad crossings doesn't increase safety. We insist that such cameras are no longer put forward as a solution to all problems. As a result, our privacy is increasingly compromised and we do not want to evolve into a society in which everyone is suspected and everyone needs to be systematically monitored. In order to remove the camera check from the text, we had tabled an amendment and we are very pleased that the final text no longer refers to the ANPR cameras. We therefore thank everyone for their cooperation. Finally, if we really want to secure our rail crossings, more resources will be needed for Infrabel to realise conflict-free rail consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u105	Colleagues, there are many different modes of transport on railway crossings. Mobility is accompanied by insecurity. Unfortunately, there are several accidents at railway crossings every year, with major consequences. A collision with a train rarely ends well; the human suffering is dramatic. Such an accident has a huge social and economic impact. It is therefore only right that Infrabel should make the safety of ground-level rail crossings a priority by improving existing safety measures, by focusing on sensitisation, including in numerous series such as Home, by enforcing traffic rules and, where possible, by eliminating ground-level rail crossings. Unfortunately, this often means that ground-level rail crossings are simply abolished, without any alternative. Such abolition may be positive for rail traffic safety, but not necessarily for road safety in general or for living conditions for those living around. The abolition of a crossing often breaks down existing safe connections for pedestrians and cyclists, as Mr Buyst has already mentioned. It also often causes new conflicts. From my experience as mayor, I can also agree that unfortunately there is little or no dialogue with Infrabel and that the ambitions of Infrabel do not always correspond to the vision of the local authorities, which is, of course, very unfortunate. Everyone wants the same thing: more road safety on the rail network, on the consideration, but certainly also on the surrounding road network. With this resolution, we are taking a step in the right direction. It wants to create a clear framework, focusing both on drastically reducing the number of accidents on consideration, and on road safety and mobility on the underlying road network. Simply closing a road is not always the best solution. Existing reflections can also be organised in a safer way or reserved for sustainable road users. Betting for enforcement of traffic rules will also have a positive impact. Perhaps even more important is that decisions on considering should be taken in consultation with local authorities and all stakeholders, so that a common vision and ambition can be used. This resolution certainly does not end the work. On the contrary, it is a starting point for further work. Several colleagues have already raised the issue: the hearings we have held on this subject clearly show that there is currently no legal framework for abolishing consideration. Who's actually qualified to make decisions? Can existing connections simply be interrupted if this is contrary to regional municipal decrees? We will certainly be addressing these questions in the coming months. I myself have tabled a legislative proposal on this subject, which can serve as a basis for this discussion. Let me be clear, this is a first, important step. I would like to thank colleagues for this initiative. Our group will certainly approve this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u106	Madam President, I would like to thank all the colleagues who have contributed constructively – and the debate that is now taking place – to this issue and to this work on securing level crossings. Beyond that, I would also like to thank all the actors who participated in the hearings, such as Infrabel or the various user associations. In the course of these hearings, we have seen the balance of interests which we must not seek to oppose, but rather to cross in order to find better balance in this matter. On the one hand, securing level crossings is not a questionable strategy. Every year, there are serious accidents and people who lose their lives. Some 50 per cent of accidents on the network occur on level crossings. This leads us to draw up proposals aimed at restricting the dangerous behaviour of users, as does the proposal by our excellent colleague Mrs Verhaert, but also at calling into question Infrabel's strategy, which mobilises important resources without the results on the ground following proportionally. On the other hand, the hearings highlighted the inconvenience caused by the complete closure for active users and for communal or regional mobility plans, but also the difficulties of the dialogue between Infrabel and the other parties. This problem of dialogue gives rise to blockages – as has been the case in Namur for many years – which prolong the presence of accident-causing situations and the shared feeling, in particular in the head of associations, of suffering the situation despite the proposed solutions. Without going back to the various recitals and proposals in the text, I point out three points in this proposal. First, security, as some have pointed out. "Go for zero" is indeed the main objective of our proposal and the strategy of the Infrabel Group. Secondly, the necessary strengthening of the consultation – strongly requested – upstream between Infrabel, residents, municipalities, associations of pedestrians and cyclists, with increased participation throughout the process. This should enable the quality of the proposed solutions to be improved when a crossing is completely closed. The legal framework for decision-making will need to be reviewed in this direction, which should be the subject of further discussion, in particular by involving the parties. There is a consensus on this point, this will to go further. Third, support for the deployment of alternatives to the full closure of level crossings. We have had many examples and testimonies of Infrabel, but also associations, on these solutions that rely on information, technology, opening up to passages for active modes. These are the constructive building blocks for the deployment of a new strategy combining security and support for local mobility issues. As has been recalled in previous debates on rail accessibility, we are at an important moment in redefining the objectives of railway undertakings. It is therefore important that Parliament be able to send signals to the government, particularly on this issue of level crossings, for greater safety and mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u107	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u108	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u109	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Marianne Verhaert, Jef Van den Bergh, Laurence Zanchetta, Emmanuel Burton, Nicolas Parent, Joris Vandenbroucke, Kim Buyst, Vincent Scourneau.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u110	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Roggeman, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express our support for this proposal, tabled by Mrs Verhaert van Open Vld. As I said in my explanatory statement to the resolution which aims to increase the safety of rail crossings, in addition to the necessary investments for safer consideration, there will also be a need for more police controls. We therefore believe that the present legislative proposal is a strong signal. Not every perpetrator will consciously ignore barriers or flashing lights, because sometimes the circumstances simply create a dangerous situation. In this way, traffic can hinder a smooth transition from the railway. It is true, however, that the law stipulates that it is forbidden to drive a road when there is a chance of stopping on the way. This can lead to dangerous situations. The purpose of this bill is to make it an infringement of the second degree. The definition of the second degree says that it indirectly endangers the safety of others. This is made very clear when crossing the road carelessly. Firstly, in order to increase the safety of rail crossings, we are carrying out awareness-raising actions. In addition, we improve the infrastructure so that it becomes safer. The final part is then a stricter control with heavier sanctions. Our group will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have just discussed the resolution on increasing safety at rail crossings. With the legislative proposal now before us, we can take a small step forward in improving safety at rail crossings. The road code stipulates that a crossing must not be driven when the barriers are in motion or closed, when the red flashing lights are on or when the sound signal is working. These are fourth-degree offences, the most serious category of offences. Driving a closed road, almost always leads to an accident with dramatic consequences. Those who do so play with their own lives, but also with the lives of passengers and a train driver. A train driver cannot stop the train in good time if he sees that there are persons or a vehicle on the tracks. A train driver sees the accident coming seconds in advance without being able to intervene, a very traumatic experience. Driving up a closed road is a conscious action that bears witness to recklessness or simply foolishness. Those who consciously do so, of course, do not belong in traffic. However, most accidents at railway crossings are not caused by a deliberate offence. Most road users are not so reckless or foolish to play with their lives in such a way. Much more often it is a result of carelessness, for example unsuspecting slipping into a traffic jam, and suddenly the barriers close. The driver does not get his car back to work in time or is blocked between a predecessor and the barrier. That's not bad luck, it's the result of a traffic violation. The chance of a stop on a road, after which the barriers close, is almost zero. The chance of falling silent on a road because people were already standing still on that road is many times greater. Stand still on a road is already forbidden at this time. Article 20.4 states that a driver may not drive a road if traffic is obstructed in such a way that he is likely to have to stop on that road. However, a violation of that article is only a violation of the first degree, the lowest category of offences. However, the consequences of such an offence may be disastrous. With this bill, I would therefore like to classify the latter offence into the second degree. As a result, these offences will be more severely punished and will be a greater priority in enforcement. Much more important is that we want to make it clear to drivers how incredibly dangerous it is to stand still on the road, even if only for a moment. The opinions were unanimously positive. In the Committee on Mobility, the bill was also adopted unanimously. I would therefore like to thank colleagues for their constructive cooperation during the discussion of my legislative proposal. I also hope that today it can count on your unanimous support in the interests of the safety of all road users.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u113	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u114	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1711/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1711/4) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u115	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u116	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Gilles Vanden Burre, Stefaan Van Hecke, Patrick Prévot, Sophie Rohonyi, Nathalie Gilson, Anneleen Van Bossuyt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u117	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1496/4) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1496/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur is Mrs Verhelst, who refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the dossier before us has to do with historic lifts. Historical lifts are pre-1958 lifts that have a special heritage value. In every city there are such lifts. These lifts are in danger of disappearing because they no longer meet safety standards. At present, the owners of these lifts, which are often located in apartment buildings, have until 2022 the time to restore those lifts so that they comply with current safety standards. Let us be clear: no one doubts that these lifts must comply with current safety standards. The only question is how this should be done. That's kind of the problem. Today there is no clear method of labeling lifts with that heritage value as safe. For the resolution before us, we have not only worked together across party boundaries, so majority and opposition together, but also between the different governments and levels of policy in this country. The security aspect is regulated federally, the heritage aspect is in turn a competence of the Länder. It is very positive that we can work together on this. There has been a standstill in this dossier for a long time, but fortunately the parties concerned are again sitting around the table today in order to protect those lifts and see what can be done. The resolution before us calls for a very specific postponement of historic lifts with heritage value until a clear method has been established to assess whether or not the safety of these lifts can be assessed. As I said earlier, there has not been such a clear method so far, which has prevented many owners from taking action on these lifts. After all, they did not know whether the costs they would put into it would ultimately lead to the safe declaration of those lifts. We are convinced that, once the evaluation framework is clear, many more lifts will be restored. To owners who have already made efforts to put their lifts in order, this resolution allows them to be returned to the original state, albeit at their own expense. However, our group has tabled three amendments here in plenary. The main reason for this is to maximize the readability of the texts. The first amendment explicitly refers to the heritage value when the term 'historical lifts' is used. After all, not every elevator dating from before 1958, is a lift with a heritage value. With the second amendment, we are slightly adjusting the ninth request because the same thing is currently being said twice. We are convinced that the small change we wish to make will improve legibility. A third amendment concerns the existing Subcommittee on Historical Lifts. Owners of historic lifts may submit files to these sub-committees to fix the lift. However, we note that there are hardly any dossiers and the subcommittee does not approve alternative solutions. The existing standard methods for declaring lifts safe or not are, of course, not the methods that can be applied to historical lifts with heritage value. Since we see this problem in the subcommittee, we wonder what has gone wrong with the operation of the committee. In addition, we also see that if the government were to implement the proposals put forward in the resolution, the subcommittee would be out of the question. That is why we are tabling that third amendment. I would very much like to thank all my fellow Members, and in particular Mr Vanden Burre, for the very fine and constructive cooperation on this dossier. We are therefore asking not only for a postponement, but above all for a clear method to ensure greater legal certainty for the owners of historic lifts of heritage value.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u119	Madam President, this resolution concerns old elevators. It is true that it seems a bit surprising to have such a discussion in the federal Parliament. However, it is important in terms of heritage conservation, and that is obviously what this is all about. We are talking about the old elevators that were put into service before 1958, as Mr Van Bossuyt pointed out, and which have a high heritage value. The problem is, we don't have an exact census. The estimate would be as follows: 10,000 lifts put into service before 1958, of which approximately 200 to 300 had high heritage value. What does this high heritage value mean? I don't know if colleagues have any idea what we're talking about. These elevators are often located in old buildings, in some neighborhoods and are Art Nouveau, Horta, Art Deco, Fine Arts style. These buildings are found in Brussels municipalities: Ixelles (where I live myself), Forest, Saint-Gilles, Brussels-ville; but also in Ghent, Antwerp, Liège, Charleroi. Inside these buildings, there are really beautiful elevators that have an important heritage value. What's going on with these elevators? That is the point of the text: they must of course be brought to standards. They must be secure. That's totally normal. The problem, however, is that too often this modernization takes place regardless of this heritage value. We find ourselves with very functional elevators but that no longer have any charm, which have lost this style Art Nouveau, Horta, Art Deco, fine arts. A few articles have been published in the French-language press, rather written. I would point out to our Dutch-speaking colleagues that this Tuesday, Terzake – a very popular programme in Flanders on the VRT – devoted a report to Brussels, to show what happens when we proceed far too quickly to modernise these elevators, which then lose their heritage value. I will not be much longer, but here are two or three points that we are asking through this motion for a resolution. First, a Royal Order of 9 March 2003 under the SPF Économie provided that all Belgian elevators should be secured and that those built before 1958 should be secured by 31 December 2022. Through this text, we call for a moratorium to be imposed on aircraft of high heritage value prior to 1958. In this way, we will be able, calmly and without haste, to find solutions to avoid the destruction of the heritage of these 200 to 300 lifts. Then we ask the SPF Economy, in partnership with the Regions – since several levels of power are involved – to adapt the legislation and, above all, its analysis to these very particular elevators. This is really the heart of our proposal. Both in terms of methods, work to be undertaken and time frame, we cannot treat these high heritage-value devices like the others. For this reason, a census must be drawn up. This is the strong and clear message we want to convey to the federal government, the FPS Economy and the Regions. I hope that he will be supported unanimously, as he was in committee. I will conclude by thanking colleagues because – majority as opposed – we were able to work on this text, co-signed by several colleagues from the MR, the PS and the N-VA. So we were able to join on heritage issues. This deserved to be stressed because this issue concerns all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is finally time to defend the heritage of the old elevators. The latter has already disappeared in part or is threatened to disappear at the time of the Royal Decree of 9 March 2003 of 31 December 2022. I would like to highlight the important gesture that we are going to make today, if we vote on this resolution, as we have already done in committee. There was a time when our country was at the forefront in the realization of what can be called works of art and crafts. Several Belgian manufacturers were internationally renowned: the Jaspar workshops in Liège, Daelemans Liften, Etienne Thiery in Antwerp, Strobbe in Ghent. These lifts can be found throughout Belgium, in apartment buildings. From the moment the law on condominiums was amended, these buildings could be built, and there was a new aesthetic of these elevators full of charm that comes to mind, with an impeccable sense of art in the overall architectural setting of the buildings. In fact, these elevators were designed in the same architectural style as the building in which they were placed. Each lift was custom made. They're unique pieces. I refer to the ironwork of art, tropical wood, parquet floors, copper control buttons, bevelled mirrors, cut glass, specific lighting of the cabin, with noble materials, always carefully selected, and which thus contribute to the general and always present charm of these buildings. This heritage is now suspended, free from the legislation that requires owners to modernise which risks changing these unique characteristics and the craft prowess of these elevators. For some, they are the subject of historical recognition or classification. They are sometimes included in the inventory of the architectural heritage of the Regions. However, this is not always the case, either because not all regions have completed their inventory, or because classification is a very cumbersome procedure that sometimes offers complicated protection for owners and may go too far. It is not necessary to choose between the classification or demolition of the elevator each time. It is therefore not because an elevator would not be classified that it could be destroyed or denatured, thus disfiguring the entrance halls and stairwells of these old buildings. Today, we are taking an important step to preserve these elevators with this motion for a resolution, tabled and co-signed by several parliamentary groups, including the MR, aimed at safeguarding the heritage value of the buildings and elevators there. The fact that this proposal was adopted unanimously by all political groups demonstrates the importance of this issue beyond political differences. We must be proud of that. I thank my co-signatory colleagues. This text, which is the result of joint work, largely responds to the "distress" of many owners and actors on the ground, including ascendorists. This dossier has always held me to heart in my past as a regional member of the Brussels-Capital Region and, then, of the echevine of Urbanism and Heritage in the commune of Ixelles which counts many specimens. Several requests are addressed to the federal government. We call for a moratorium on the deadline for compliance. This moratorium is very important because the ascendorists do not have sufficient staff to bring these elevators up to standard within the required time frame. We also call for the validation of technical solutions to reconcile this security requirement with the preservation of the heritage. The Kinney method, which is used for U.S. submarines, is a risk assessment technique. It is recommended to determine what work needs to be done to modernize these elevators. In reality, this method is not used, given the lack of qualification and knowledge of its application. This Kinney method is completely different from the one currently used, namely that of the checklist in order to check whether the elevator meets such and such criteria and which automatically leads to work that distorts the old elevator. We insist that every effort be made to ensure that this alternative risk assessment method, known as the Kinney method, is now used. We also call for the necessary resources to be provided to external services for technical checks (SECT) on training so that they can validate the work proposed on the basis of this Kinney method. Following an amendment proposed by the MR and adopted unanimously, we call for the government to consider making legislation and regulations more enforcement in determining the obligations of elevator maintenance companies. There are indeed indications of price practices, of automatic renewal of contracts for too long periods and which put condominiums in complicated situations. Many do not file complaints. Few introduce legal proceedings. As liberals, we want a competitive, free and open market so that competition in the elevator industry benefits consumers and citizens. Indeed, we have had land returns from many co-owners regarding this difficulty. I would remind you that in 2006, the European Commission had already sentenced the four giants in the sector to close to EUR 1 million in fines for a price cartel. Colleagues, I wanted to draw your attention to these four points, while being aware that there is still a lot of work to be done. The hand is now in the government to make our resolution a reality. In the coming months, we will remain attentive to the concrete progress that this resolution will bring to the co-ownerships for the preservation of these magnificent elevators, examples of the know-how of our artisans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u121	Madam President, the purpose of the resolution is not to call into question the legislation on the safety of lifts, but, as it is applied in practice, the regulation poses a threat to the preservation of former elevators of heritage value. The style of these is usually in osmosis with the architecture of the buildings they equip. Many of these buildings are located in Brussels. But cities such as Ostend, Charleroi and Antwerp also have a rich heritage in this area. These former elevators are part of the industrial history of our country and bear witness to the know-how of the trades related to the steel, glass and wood industries. Many elevators are classified, are part of the architectural heritage inventory of the Regions, and yet they have already undergone heavy transformations that have completely distorted their architectural value or have been simply replaced by new ones. Alternative solutions exist, but in order to implement them, it is necessary to change methodology at the level of risk analysis and to work on a case-by-case basis rather than always wanting to apply the same standardised method. In particular, the resolution calls on the Government to impose an urgent moratorium on the compliance of lifts put into service before 1958, to contribute to the development of a method of risk analysis specific to lifts of historical interest, to work on the validation of technical solutions to reconcile safety and heritage protection and to provide for a five-year period for the implementation of validated solutions. The PTB supports this resolution. We are concerned to preserve this heritage linked to the industrial history of our country and the know-how of artisans. I would also like to draw attention to the social dimension of the problem. The security of these elevators must be affordable. We have received evidence of the cost of upgrading to safety standards, which could amount to up to €75,000 for a small elevator. Pensioners had to sell their apartment urgently because their pension did not allow them to pay their share of such an invoice. Finally, the resolution calls on the government to make legislation and regulation more enforcement in order to combat certain abusive practices on the part of companies operating elevators, which operate in oligopoly, thus putting their customers in a position of dependence. We are, of course, also committed to this objective. We will therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Sophie Rohonyi, co-signator of the motion for a resolution, cannot be here today to speak. So I'm gonna do it for him. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the work done during these many months of serene discussions that go far beyond the majority-opposition divide. This is the culmination of a long process, with today a democratic vote on a balanced text. Our country has a large number of elevators. If it is complicated to have an accurate estimate of this number, he said, when the Royal Decree was adopted in 2003, that there were between 75,000 and 80,000, including about 10,000 prior to 1958. Old or historic elevators are an integral part of our heritage, a heritage that must be safeguarded and respected while guaranteeing the safety rules essential for their use. This motion for a resolution fully meets this objective. Since the adoption of the Royal Decree of 9 March 2003, it is true that owners have been over 18 years old to prepare for compliance with their old elevator. However, the terms used in the Order and the criteria that lifts must meet in order to be considered safe are particularly unclear. The motion for a resolution provides a first attempt at a solution for many owners who also wish to guarantee the safety of their historic elevators. Our group, as co-signatory, can therefore only welcome the adoption of this text, which we have supported since it was tabled, whether at the federal or local level. Indeed, many initiatives also exist in our communes; the heritage and historical value of old elevators must be guaranteed. We will therefore, of course, support this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u123	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u124	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u125	The Chamber must appoint the alternate of Mr Didier Dochain to the Boards of Directors of Unia/Myria. The Chamber shall designate the alternate of Mr Didier Dohain on the boards of Unia/Myria. Nominations were announced in plenary on 1 April 2021. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 1 April 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u126	The Chamber must appoint Ms. Shaireen Aftab's alternate to the Boards of Directors of Unia/Myria. The Chamber should designate Mrs Sharieen Aftab's alternate on the boards of Unia/Myria. Nominations were announced in plenary on 6 May 2021. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 6 May 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u127	As part of the renewal of half of the terms of office of the Commissions of Appointment for the Notariat, the Chamber must proceed with the appointment of the actual members. In the context of the renewal of half of the mandates of the Notarial Appointment Committees, the Chamber should appoint the permanent members. Nominations were announced during the plenary meetings of 28 January 2021, 25 March 2021 and 12 May 2021. Candidates were announced at the plenary sessions of 28 January 2021, 25 March 2021 and 12 May 2021. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 May 2021, I propose that you make these appointments during the plenary meeting on 3 June 2021. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 May 2021, I propose that these appointments be made at the plenary session of 3 June 2021. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Tuesday 25 May 2021 until Thursday 3 June 2021 at 4 p.m. Ballot papers and parliamentary documents are available in the General Secretariat. - Members may vote from Tuesday 25 May 2021 until Thursday 3 June 2021 at 4 p.m. The ballots and parliamentary documents are available to the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. - The ballot boxes will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday 3 June 2021 in Room 3. - The urnes with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session of Thursday, 3 June 2021, in Room 3. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u128	The next item is the vote on the nomination of Mr Thibaut Vandamme's first alternate. The next item is the vote on the appointment of Mr Thibaut Vandamme's first alternate. Mr Thierry Werts' candidacy was announced during the plenary session on 28 January 2021. Mr Thierry Werts' candidacy was announced at the plenary session of 28 January 2021. On May 18, 2021, Mr Thierry Werts was heard by the Special Committee on Parliamentary Support of Standing Committee P and Standing Committee R. Mr André Flahaut reported on this hearing to the Conference of Presidents on May 19, 2021. On 18 May 2021, Mr Thierry Werts was heard by the Special Committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee I. Mr André Flahaut reported on this hearing to the Conference of Presidents of 19 May 2021. Since there is only one candidate, the Chamber may declare Mr. Thierry Werts elected as the first alternate of Mr. Thibaut Vandamme, pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of the Chamber. Since there is only one candidate, Mr Thierry Werts may, pursuant to Rule 157, 6, of the Rules of Procedure, shall be declared elected for the term of office of first alternate to Mr Thibaut Vandamme. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u129	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u130	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u131	Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1925/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1925/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u132	Vote on Amendment No 20 by Pieter De Spiegeleer cs on request 6. (1640/6) Vote on amendment No 20 by Pieter De Spiegeleer cs on request 6. (1640/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u133	Yes [[42]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u134	Madam President, I found that the experience of the simultaneous vote on several amendments proposed by Mr. From Roover, was interesting. It seemed to me that this had happened in a positive way. Is it already abandoned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u135	Not at all. These are two amendments by the same authors. It did not seem to us to have to do so. But we can do it, if you prefer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u136	If anyone says it's not the same vote, we still have to do it. It's to save a little time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u137	That's right. You're right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u138	Vote on Amendment No 21 by Pieter De Spiegeleer cs on request 11. (1640/6) Vote sur l'amendment n° 21 de Pieter De Spiegeleer cs à la demande 11. (1640/6) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u139	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u140	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u141	Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1640/7) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be followed up by the government. (1640/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u142	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u143	Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1711/5) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1711/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u144	Vote on Amendment No 10 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt at the request 1. (1496/5) Vote on Amendment No 10 from Anneleen Van Bossuyt on request 1. (1496/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u145	Yes [[41]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt at the request 9. (1496/5) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt on request 9. (1496/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u146	Yes [[40]] Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u147	Vote on Amendment No 12 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt to insert a request 10(n). (1496/5) Vote on Amendment No 12 from Anneleen Van Bossuyt to insert a request 10(n). (1496/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u148	Yes 44 Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u149	Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u150	Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1496/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1496/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-20-definitief-55-plenair-ip105x.u151	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 27 May 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, May 27, 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
