ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u1	Mr President, Minister, there are again a lot of questions about rumors that our police services would have used Clearview software. Clearview AI software is not innocent. The company proudly gave an interview this week to report that it has collected 10 billion photos on social media. It's about photos people posted for other reasons. Clearview AI downloads those photos and then puts them in his algorithm. It's 10 billion photos. The company also announced that in the future it will probably be able to get blurred photos sharp again. It was very proud in that interview, but I have fundamental problems with it, not only in terms of privacy, but also in terms of mistakes that can be made. Clearview AI says, of course, that it makes this software available to investigative services around the world. However, I wonder what happens if such software gets on our phones. That's not fiction. There are stories of Clearview AI's leaders who show such apps at restaurants. In my opinion, such apps can have serious consequences and have an impact on someone's life if at any time of the day one can recognize anyone who's around. Europe has already taken a clear stand against such apps. I questioned your predecessor, Mr De Crem, just over a year ago about this. He was kind of excited about this. He even talked about a police working group working on the legal analysis and on the need for a legal basis. That didn't really reassure me at the time. I have to admit, I haven't heard much about that since. Regarding the rumors, a new investigation has been launched by the Supervisory Body on the police information (COC). What did they find there? How do you view the use of facial recognition software by our security services?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u2	Madam Secretary, through the American Clearview AI application, there is the possibility to identify a suspicious person within the second based on a photo. The app searches a database of billions of photos collected through publicly accessible social media channels. However, research has already shown that the way in which those data were collected is questionable and that Clearview AI practices are in breach of GDPR rules. A recent publication of the news website BuzzFeed now shows that 88 police forces across 24 countries have used this software. According to this data, the Belgian federal police would have used Clearview Al. It was supposed to be 101 to 500 searches. At the beginning of 2020, however, the federal police and the COC denied that our police services used the software. These new revelations naturally place this denial in a different light. The COC has already stated that the use of the software will be re-examined by the police and that a new question will be asked to the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police. Federal police are telling us that they're in the middle of an interrogation with the various services. They say they don't have any clues for the time being. Madam Secretary, how are the searches with Clearview AI made by the Belgian police about which BuzzFeed reported, in the light of the denial by the federal police that they would have used this software? Are the results of the COC's new research already available? Do our police have sufficient legal means and techniques to use facial recognition software? Is there any attention for these techniques within the i-Police project?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u3	The application developed by Clearview takes advantage of artificial intelligence to identify people on the basis of a simple photo. This facial recognition system uses billions of data on social networks like Facebook and Linkedin in disregard of people's rights. It then processes them with the aim of creating a database whose access is then sold by the company to many customers around the world, both private firms and police services. A leak in 2020 revealed the identity of Clearview's customers and among these clients was the Belgian federal police which allegedly used the software between 100 and 500 times. The company then confirmed the authenticity of this list. I am therefore surprised by the recent release of the federal police by which it reaffirms not to use the software. Since the undertaking managing the latter claims the opposite, the situation needs to be clarified. Do you confirm the information that Clearview is or has been used by the federal police? If so, will you end this situation that violates the GDPR? How do you justify it? How often and according to what criteria has it been used? Otherwise, how do you explain the contrast between Clearview's recognition of the authenticity of the disclosed documents and the denials of the federal police?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u4	I will not repeat the context set already made by my colleagues and will therefore come directly to my questions:How do you explain the number of uses reported by BuzzFeed when the federal police denied having used this software? Do you already know the results of the analysis conducted by the COC? Does the federal police and its competent services have sufficient legal means for the use of software such as Clearview? What about GDPR? In the context of the i-Police project, what attention is it given to software such as these?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u5	Madam Minister, the context has already been outlined by the previous speakers, so I will come straight to my questions. How do you feel about using facial recognition software by the police? Does our national legislation allow the use of such software? Following the reporting, the COC said that it was not excluded that an individual police officer would have used a trial version of Clearview AI. The Supervisory Body would therefore have opened a new investigation. Are you aware of the results of this investigation? If so, can you share these results with us?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u6	Madam Secretary, I too will try not to repeat myself. The COC has opened a new investigation and I would like to know if the results are already known. My main question is this: do you think using facial recognition software by the police is a good way to work? Do you think that's appropriate? Is there a legal framework for this? If not, are you planning to create a legal framework to introduce facial recognition by the police in a legal way? Do you know about the use of certain software by police forces in other European countries? What are the experiences of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u7	Mr President, Madam Minister, the context has been set by my colleagues. They recalled that, at the beginning of 2020, following a data leak, it was reported that the Clearview application would have been used by the Belgian police, which it later denied. Do you confirm, yes or no, that this application has been used by the Belgian police? Failing this, has she used or is she using other facial recognition programs? What directives and safeguards are in place to ensure that strict privacy rules are scrupulously respected by our law enforcement agencies? In May 2020, your predecessor Pieter De Crem told my colleague Eric Thiébaut, in committee, that a working group had been set up to that effect and had been tasked with examining facial recognition, the use and use of it and the safeguards to be put in place. What is the status of the work of this working group today, as well as the discussions at European level that were also discussed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u8	Mr President, we have already discussed this issue and discussed it in previous parliamentary questions. Then it was also answered that no structural use is made of the Clearview AI tool within the services of the federal police. Based on the new message in BuzzFeed, the COC directed a letter to the federal police to verify it again. Based on that, the federal police have launched an internal investigation. This showed that two detectives had access to a trial licence valid for a limited period at a Task Force meeting at Europol in October 2019. In the context of international cooperation, they were able to exchange their experiences and resources during this operational meeting. The Clearview AI tool was also presented here by the FBI. In this context, a limited number of consultations have been carried out with the programme with photographs of the detectives themselves and photographs of cases from another country investigated by the task force. This information was recently provided to the COC and the COC has in the meantime put additional questions to the police, to which an answer must be given by 18 October. Since the Belgian legal framework does not allow the exploitation of this software, it will not be used by the federal police, in accordance with my previous answers on this topic. Clearview AI reports that it is currently not doing business in Belgium or elsewhere in the European Union. Facial recognition is certainly an interesting path to use in the long term to support the functioning of the police in carrying out the tasks of the administrative and judicial police. Of course, this can only be done with a proper legal basis so that the information obtained can be legally used administratively and judicially. The police builds technical expertise to better understand the functioning of artificial intelligence, better assess the impact and build guarantees to avoid bias, so that future use is only possible if the purpose is clear and while respecting the rights and freedoms of persons, with special attention to avoiding a negative impact on individuals by stereotyping or stigmatisation by algorithms. These preparations are made within the limits of the current legal framework. They therefore do not in any way imply an application or operational use of biometric data. In other words, the legal conditions will be met at all times, including prior consultation of the COC, such as the law on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data. In addition, work on the preparation of European legislation in this area is closely monitored and there is close consultation with the academic community. Regarding your question of how and whether these possibilities will be explored within the i-Police programme, it is first and foremost important to make it clear that i-Police provides an answer to the questions asked about the GDPR. The current fragmentation of the ICT landscape makes it difficult to ensure full protection of personal data today. I would also like to specify that for police purposes there is a specific EU directive, the Law Enforcement Directive, which is a GDPR directive specifically tailored to police and intelligence services. It is a directive which the police must respect at all times and which is further consolidated in Belgian legislation. Many initiatives have already been taken, including the establishment of the Strategic Committee on Information within the Integrated Police. That Committee was set up in accordance with Article 8s of the Police Office Act (WPA) and has precisely the aim of monitoring the directives of that Directive on the processing of data and personal data in the police context. The COC has also been established as a police monitoring body to monitor the principles of processing personal data, which are biometric data par excellence. The COC therefore exists alongside the Data Protection Authority and is solely responsible for the follow-up of the Directive. The elements of police data processing that do not have police purposes are covered by the GDPR Directive. This is done under the supervision of the Data Protection Authority. Within Article 44 of the WPA, which regulates police information management, further adjustments will be made in order to legally anchor the new possibilities. In concrete terms, the i-Police platform will allow for the first time to integrate these principles of personal data protection into the basic structure of applications, centrally managed at national level, so that this principle is transparent for the COC and therefore for society. This integration into the structure has been identified as a solution of the type Privacy by Design, Security by Design and Accountability by Design, from the time of design. The specifications for i-Police were designed in this direction since the launch in 2016, in particular to meet the requirements of the very important directive. The European Union is also monitoring how Member States implement this Directive and the i-Police project will enable Belgium to show that it is implementing a programme in line with the Directive. The i-Police programme will make it technologically possible to use new sources such as social networks or media capture, but will only allow it if it is already anchored in regulation. To justify this use, the limitation of the purposes of each type of use must be explained and validated in advance. In addition to limiting the purposes which will also be assessed on the basis of the proportionality of data processing, additional structural interventions will be possible to anonymize and pseudonymize personal data as far as possible and for as long as possible. But it is not because some treatment is technologically possible that the police can use it. An individual agent will not be able to activate it within the i-Police environment. Validations for a new type of processing are carried out centrally and are verified by the federal police with the COC and submitted to the Minister as data controllers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u9	Madam Minister, thank you for your long and technical answer, which I will certainly read thoroughly. The technology allows for a lot today. It is, of course, a good technological example that one can take another sharp picture of a blur. I imagine the police would find this interesting and would like to use it. I hope, however, that in the end it will be the policy that will decide on such principles and that it will ask the necessary questions. Is it working? Can it be flawless? Is it useful? Is it ethical, too? We must look at these aspects. I believe that we, as policy makers, should be much more involved in this. Last week, for example, I read about an attack carried out by the Israeli army over 1,000 kilometres on an Iranian scientist, all with the help of technology, even Belgian technology. I think it is important that we look at these matters ethically. That is also one of the reasons why I tabled a resolution to set up a Belgian advisory committee on data ethics. I believe that we, as policy-makers, should be given the best possible support in these questions. Actually, the undertone is: it's not because it can, that we have to use it as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u10	Thank you for your clear answer. I'd like to review a few more things. It is very important for us that, within the framework of the protection of people and data by the GDPR, we use all the means to prevent crime and violence. We therefore support everything related to technology, but we must be sure that it is used in a correct, human and ethical manner. For that, all confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u11	Minister, I listened carefully to your answer. This is very worrying because you tell us that the program was used informally, in the form of a test. This means that the federal police have lied twice. Indeed, when the leak occurred in 2020, the federal police denied using this software in 2020. And she lied again last August. Minister, you are telling us that the police have twice lied to us about the use of this software. I understand that she lied because you yourself say that there is no legal basis for putting this system in place but that you are considering it for the future, which is a new element of concern. Your answer therefore leaves me puzzled because it tells us that the police have lied twice and that, even without the existence of a legal basis, the police have allowed themselves to use this software.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u12	Madam Secretary, artificial intelligence is asking us for ethical questions. We need to look into that. The coalition agreement also includes the government's intention to do so. You intend to work out a framework there. I certainly welcome that. The problem with Clearview AI was that it was illegal software. Moreover, there is no framework for the police to work with facial recognition software. That is why, in a resolution, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has already called for a moratorium on the use of facial recognition software for security cameras in public and private places, just in order to give Parliament time to debate them. We need to see how we deal with this sensitive subject. That technology will only become more important and develop further. Yesterday, the European Parliament adopted a non-binding resolution prohibiting the use of facial recognition by police in public areas, i.e. in the streets. It is important that we do not end up in a society of mass surveillance. We do not want a big brother, but in the framework of a judicial investigation and for certain purposes it may be appropriate to use artificial intelligence and certain software. There is an urgent need for a legal framework for this. We must have that debate in Parliament. As far as the COC and the internal investigation are concerned, it reassures us if it has remained only with the facts that you have listed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u13	The European Data Protection Board, which also includes the Data Protection Authority, has clearly opposed the use of facial recognition software. Of course, there are a lot of risks involved. I am pleased that you have confirmed in your reply that this has absolutely no legal framework in Belgium. Before such systems are introduced, a very carefully prepared legal framework needs to be created. It should be possible to use new, more modern means, such as facial recognition software and AI software, for example, to deal with terrorist attacks or terrorist threats. In this respect, we must not miss the train of progress, but we must not slip into a big brother society where everything and everyone is mapped out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u14	Minister, two disappointments. The first is that I do not have the feeling that the working group mentioned by Mr. From Crem at the time, to my colleague Thiébaut, that is a reality and that it allows us to move forward. It is a bit unfortunate that your predecessors have announced information which, in the end, does not seem to materialize in reality. The second is much bigger. The police say they didn't use a system and you're announcing that they used it informally. Informally or formally, it's using a system. For my part, there is a serious concern in the responses given at the time by the police services. Beyond these questions, we will have to correct the shot in the future. As you mentioned, we are currently in a context that does not allow the use of this type of software. It must now be avoided, either formally or informally, absolutely. As you said, these tools can be important in some of the fights to be waged for the protection of our citizens and in the necessary actions of our security forces, but they must be ethically framed. Each party must know in which room it plays and the framework for using this type of software must be clearly defined. I am reassured by your positioning: as it is, it will not be used until the frame is well defined to do so. I agree with my colleague Mrs Platteau that Parliament must give real thought to the society we want tomorrow, and the framework we want to set for the tasks of our police. Do we want a society at the Big Brother or a society of freedoms? We will have to find a good balance that respects the individual freedoms of each and a framework that we will have to define together. This task will have to be entrusted to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u15	Mrs. Hanus is absent. Mr Arens has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u16	Mr President, Madam Minister, I am again being asked by the divisional commissioners, and by the way you too, from the province of Luxembourg, about the increasingly important role they have to play in the problems that are usually the responsibility of the railway police. When I speak of the divisional commissioners, you understand that I am talking about the police areas that are local areas funded by the federal government and our communes. The disappearance of SPC Luxembourg is a fact. It is not even a matter of fear, since my last question on the subject, the team has lost one more member and they are only two more. This lack of railway police personnel in the province of Luxembourg results in the use of police zones by SOC and the police information and communication centre 111 in the event of problems on the rail; however, there are already not enough members of the local police to carry out these missions, and they are not trained to intervene on the tracks. This entails a high risk, the need for training and the obtaining of specific patents. They nevertheless intervene at their own risk in certain serious acts, such as violence and serious crimes, to the detriment of their other missions. Madam Minister, do you confirm that the province of Luxembourg will soon have no railway police? Police zones request that SPC Liège send more reinforcements to the province of Luxembourg. Secondly, they call for police areas to be reinforced in trained personnel so that they can assume these new responsibilities for railway operations. How do you respond to this important and increasingly urgent demand for police areas in the province of Luxembourg? Do you work with the Minister of Mobility on this? For your good information, Madam Minister, yesterday I asked your colleague Gilkinet, Georges of his first name, to pay endowments to the police areas so that they could carry out these missions on the rails. But I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u17	Madam Minister, I would like to zoom out a little bit, but my question is on the same subject that Mr Arens has just mentioned. This summer, the railway unions have again reported several cases of aggression against Securail employees. I have already questioned your colleague, Minister Gilkinet, about this in the past. Mr Arens also mentioned that we had an actua debate on this yesterday. You too bear this policy responsibility. People need to be able to feel safe at work. In addition, people must be able to feel safe on the train and in the station. That is very important if we want more people to take the train, it is a very important aspect to make the train more attractive. The events reported this summer are distressing. You and Mr Gilkinet have therefore been briefed by the railway unions on this issue. My question concerns the steps that this government will take to protect the workers of our public transport companies. Is it true that Mr Duquesne's 2002 circulars still apply, but that there has been no permanentity of the Railway Police in the ten risk stations for a long time? How is it that this circular is no longer being applied, and since when is that the case? What will you do to ensure that a further permanence of the Railway Police will be guaranteed in these stations? I've questioned you about this matter before. Then you said you were working out a reform of the Railway Police. What principles will be at the heart of this? In what way will SNCB also be involved in this reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u18	Madam Minister, with regard to tackling crime and violence, the Flemish interest has always been a pioneer. I am therefore very pleased that we are having this debate, with several speakers and several parties who are paying attention to it and increasing pressure. In order to tackle the problems of violence within the rail system, you also have an important role to play as the Minister responsible for the Railway Police. We have seen for years that the envisaged staff frameworks within the Railway Police are not being filled in. Madam Secretary, what is the reason or reason for the difficulty in implementing the staffing framework of the Railway Police? What measures are you going to take to complete the staffing framework with the Railway Police? Above all, I would like to know how long this will take. In other words, when will the full implementation be a fact? Are the necessary resources available? Finally, if the planned staff framework is fully completed, you believe that it will be sufficient to deal with the current situation of violence in the rail sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u19	As with other public services, SNCB staff regularly face inappropriate assaults and behaviour. It is important to ensure its safety, as well as that of commuters, throughout the country's rail network. It seems, however, that the means given to the security services are not sufficient. There is a shortage of staff and there is also a shortage of staff in the railway police. At the beginning of the year, it was thus learned that the railway police of the province of Luxembourg have only three officers, who will not be replaced when they retire! The resources are structurally inadequate throughout the country, including in Brussels. Recruitments are reserved for mother stations, to the detriment of other stations, such as Namur, where 30 000 passengers per day pass through. Under the leadership of Minister Jambon, it was envisaged to reduce the missions of the railway police, which would only intervene on docks and trains. Stations would be left to local police areas, which makes no sense as they form a coherent whole with docks and trains. What are you planning to do to improve rail safety? Do you consult with your colleague Mr Gilkinet on this issue? Are there commitments in the railway police? How much and for what positions? Will you continue Mr. Jambon's plan to limit this police mission to docks and trains? How do you see the future of the railway police?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u20	Madam Secretary, I have a very simple and short question. I will not repeat the whole introduction here; the other speakers have already explained more than enough. What are your views on the telescopic batons, a suggestion from the trade unions? Is that a good plan for you or not? That is a very short but important question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u21	Madam Minister, yesterday we had the debate with Mr Gilkinet. Nevertheless, I would like to make a few comments. The problem was fairly well explained by the trade unions, who also pointed out that the presence of the Railway Police is a real problem. I have already asked questions in the past about the dismantling of the railway police in my province. However, even in the station of Leuven there is no railway police anymore today. It is right to ask for that presence to be strengthened again. It also points out that there is little visible staff, which gives some the idea that there is more to be done than unfortunately should be possible. Are there any findings you share? Are there any things you'd like to do? How do you experience the cooperation with the local police, which is claimed not to be optimal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. The specialisation of the railway police aims to increase police presence and visibility on its priority area of action, namely trains, tracks and railway infrastructure for supralocal phenomena. It has been the subject of collaborative work between the Federal Police and the Standing Commission of the Local Police since December 2018. An agreement is currently being sought on a clearer division of tasks between the federal and local police. SNCB will of course remain a privileged partner, as will Infrabel and STIB in the Brussels-Capital Region. The SPC Région Est, either for the provinces of Liège, Luxembourg and Namur, continues to provide the basic police function where it is required to do so. In practical terms, for the province of Luxembourg as a whole, the scope of action is to intervene on the facts, to monitor and respond to the phenomena by introducing targeted actions on our priority area of action. The intervention teams will therefore cover the entire territory of the province of Luxembourg by adapting their working hours. They will be directed to the sensitive points of the rail network, in consultation with the zone chiefs. The ultimate goal is to increase the flexibility of the teams in the region, in particular in order to develop targeted actions by integrating the needs of all partners in the security chain. These targeted actions are currently being prepared under the coordination of the Director-Coordinator of Luxembourg. The SSC will participate in the overall security effort on its priority area of action. For example, it has just committed to participating in a collaborative protocol between the federal police and the provincial police areas on road safety to ensure that level crossings are safe and secure. The 2002 circular is still in force. The Railway Police continue to provide reinforced support in ten stations. Although this circular does not contain any permanentity, it does include increased support. Such support shall take the form of on-site shifts to respond to urgent calls or to ensure the safety of travellers during special events. The recruitments to the Railway Police are as difficult as elsewhere. I would like to point out that the overall shortage in the SPC management decreased from 21% in September 2018 to 16% in September 2021. In any case, all possible efforts are being made to promote careers within the Railway Police. For example, in the course of 2020 and 2021, the unit paid particular attention to recruitment through mobility and via circular GPI 73. Since 2019, the management of the SPC has been providing sensitisation sessions in the provincial schools in favour of the Railway Police, so we are becoming increasingly interested in the Railway Police. However, we must be realistic, and the catching up of course takes time. Ensuring safety in the railway sector is a core but not exclusive task of the railway police. The SNCB security service is also involved in the pursuit of these security objectives, in accordance with the law of 2 October 2017 regulating private and particular security. There is no doubt that collaboration between these two departments is ongoing, both at the strategic and operational levels. The recruitment of additional staff for Securail does not fall within my competence. Mrs Goethals, I have noted your question and I suggest that we discuss it later. The telescopic baton is part of the basic equipment, also of the Railway Police. Private companies such as Securail do not have them, but in principle the Railway Police can also use them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u23	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answer, but let me remind you that there are only two officers in the railway police in the province of Luxembourg. Given the vastness of the territory, I realize that our local police are regularly contacted to act on the rails. But you know better than anyone since you're a minister, we're already understaffed in our police areas. When I take the area in which I participate in the police college, we already pay a certain number of police officers only on communal budgets. I really insist both on railway safety and on general safety, I know that it is not easy for you to review the KUL standards, which I am not going to ask you, even if we ask in a bill, but I really think that we must try to strengthen the federal police so that a number of missions that are on the account of local police can be taken over by the federal police. At that time, we will be very satisfied in the police areas because we will have far fewer missions than today. I really insist on this aspect and I would like to be able to meet you – because the debate would be too long – with a few divisional commissioners from my province to be able to talk with you so that you can really realize what we really are living on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u24	Aggression not only occurs on the train, we find that there has been a lot of aggression towards people in uniform lately. Something must be done about this. Everyone must feel safe on the train and in the station, not least the staff. You must take the signal seriously and look for solutions. Your answer was long and I will certainly listen to it again. I find it striking that you say that there are still reinforcements in those ten risk stations. I thought you had once said that the railway police would be reformed, but I had clearly misunderstood that. I think it is important that you, together with Minister Gilkinet and Minister Van Quickenborne, work on all the links in the process and that you consult with the staff representatives. That's what Minister Gilkinet said yesterday. We will continue to follow this up in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u25	Your answer wasn't surprising. To seek increased visibility and make all possible efforts, as your predecessors promised. A step has already been taken in the right direction, but action needs to be taken more often and more quickly than is currently the case. There are also major regional differences in the occupation of the Railway Police. In Liège there is a capacity utilisation rate of 123 % and in Charleroi it is 131 %. In Antwerp, the degree is 78 % and in West Flanders, 52 %. So I ask myself why we can do it in one place and not in the other. There is no doubt that the number of criminal offences is increasing. Last year the number of recorded facts in the ANG was 21,173. That's a hell of a lot. As far as target groups are concerned, verbal and non-verbal aggression towards train drivers is increasing. It is also increasing among the staff of Securail, other platform staff and desk staff. There is also a growing trend of black driving, vandalism and so on. All the numbers are going the wrong way. Flemish Interest ask you once again to step up and gear up. Recruit new people, provide good training and ensure that the safety problem of the railways is put to an end.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u26	Minister, I have heard the reaction of my colleagues. As I said to you, the railway police in the province of Luxembourg have only three officers and they will not be replaced when they retire. There is a need for a change of policy at the level of the railway police. If there is no public investment, you will encourage this kind of incident. It doesn't matter if the police are local or federal, what people want is to be safe. It is up to you to put in place an effective plan, in contradiction to your predecessor's plan, which has led to structural economies. Public investment is needed in this area and the safety of users must be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u27	Madam Minister, as some of my colleagues have also mentioned, you must now begin a dialogue with the other competent minister, Minister Gilkinet, but above all with the actors on the ground in order to be able to take stock of the concrete situation of the needs today. Some colleagues are talking about percentages. I mean the capacity figures that have been advanced, particularly 126% for Liège. Last week, when I came back from a late sitting of this Parliament, I witnessed an attack on the train. I was completely devoid because I couldn't find the help I needed. There was no controller on my train. In any case, it did not manifest itself between Brussels-Central and Pepinster, which represents an hour and thirty of journey. I didn't find him and he didn't come to me either. And when I arrived at my destination station, there was no police officer or agent Securail because it was 10:00 p.m. I hear that full capacity is being filled in the province of Liège, but I, a commuter, couldn't find the help I needed in the face of a very complicated situation. These were acts of violence within a couple, with a baby being mistreated in front of me on the train. This challenges me because, obviously, even if we have a full capacity occupied in a region, it may not be well distributed. Don't we need more agents in some stations and fewer agents in others? Can't agents be more flexible and disperse within the same province? I am thinking out loud with you and these are the questions that come to me. I think there is work to be done because today we are paying for the consequences of a policy taken before you arrive. I know you're not responsible, but I also know you're aware of the problem and I hope you can do what you need.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u28	Mr President, I have received answers to my questions and would like to thank the Minister for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u29	Mr President, I can say the same as the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u30	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have already asked you on several occasions about the relatively recurring shortage of police personnel, but also about your willingness and determination to accompany the Brussels police services, particularly in their capacity issues, in the light of the regional institutional characteristics in this area. The international and specific national capital role in Brussels requires federal support for the six police areas that are already doing very important work. Not so long ago, you told me that attention was being paid to a series of attacks targeted at our police officers, particularly in the Brussels Midi area. This example illustrates the difficulties encountered on the ground as a result of the lack of police officers. You will recall that on 12 July last the intervention service of the Brussels Midi area had begun a strike and that this strike had been organised as a result of the lack of staff and related phenomena, namely the imbalance between rest periods and working periods, the limitation of intervention patrols at night, etc. The objectives at the national level are clear and well known. Recruitment procedures have been revised. Chiefs of corps – this is a very good thing – will therefore be able to integrate these recruitment procedures before the start of training. However, Madam Minister, there is a shortage of approximately 4,700 police officers in all areas of the country. Also remember the number of retirements each year. On 18 September, you launched a new campaign to fill 3,000 posts. It was not only about police functions, but also about Calog functions. I would therefore like you to take stock of the situation today, as we have arrived at the end of the first full year of the legislature. Madam Minister, do you confirm the increase in burn-out in certain areas of the country, particularly in the Brussels Region, and more specifically in Brussels Midi? What is the evolution of requests for support from local areas, whether in Brussels or elsewhere, to the federal police in recent years? Does the revision of recruitment procedures allow for a specific new contribution by the Federal Police to local areas? What is the extent of this contribution? What is the status of the recruitment of the first 1,600 new police officers announced for this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u31	I would like to refer to the written version of my question so that I can replicate later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u32	Minister, my question was to take stock of recruitment and the new selection process. We are almost a year after your policy presentation, during which you announced your ambition to recruit 1,600 new staff. Today, my questions are rather specific. First of all, is it possible to pass some tests digitally? We talked a lot about it last year. I know that test phases had been put in place thanks to, or because of, the covid. Do we have an evaluation of these digital tests? What changes have you made in this new selection procedure? How does collaboration between the federal and local levels take place during the selection phase? You have regularly referred to this great recruitment campaign. How does it materialize today? Do you already have a clear idea of the agenda, the different phases and its financial cost? Finally, could you give us a brief account of recruitment and selection at this stage, which would allow us to know where we are in relation to the objectives we set ourselves almost a year ago?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u33	Madam Secretary, in April I asked you another question about recruitment and selection procedures in the police. You had good news at the time, because you confirmed that the new recruitment concept, which had to allow you to recruit 1,600 inspectors this year, was on schedule. The new selection procedure had yet to be activated and until such time as this had not happened, the aspirants had to be recruited according to the old procedure. The new selection concept eliminates some of the tests. In concrete terms, the Recruitment and Selection Service would offer the police zones or the federal police a pool of aspirants with the required minimum competences. From that group they were able to select successful candidates. This would also increase involvement in the areas and federal units where the candidates would end up. This was very innovative compared to the old concept, in which the aspirants were not recruited directly by the police zones or the federal units. Things used to have to be different. When did the new recruitment concept really start? How many aspirants were started in 2021 according to the old recruitment concept? How many are already covered by the new concept? Do you think it will be possible to reach 1,600 new inspectors by 2021? Does the new selection procedure not ensure unhealthy competition between zones? I've even seen a campaign where the police are looking for Vikings. Are there areas where the new selection procedure produces few new recruits? Do you see any possibility of remedying that? In my next two questions I mainly deal with the theme of diversity. We have repeatedly stressed the need for measures to ensure that the police reflect society better and therefore become more diverse. In reply to my question earlier this year, you were unable to provide any concrete figures, which should give us an accurate picture of the problem. However, a working group looked at proposals for greater diversity among recruits and a better follow-up of developments in this area and examined whether they could be integrated into the new recruitment concept. Firstly, do you have a better idea of the situation today? If the police force is not sufficiently diverse, what conclusions do you draw? Secondly, has the working group which has looked at the problem of diversity in recruitment achieved results and incorporated proposals in this context into the new recruitment concept? My next questions were prompted by a testimony from a candidate of Moroccan origin about his unequal treatment during the training. For example, a saliva test, for which he had applied for, had been wrongly taken by another candidate with a positive result and led to his suspension, which was undone by the Chief Constable after the counter-test by Internal Control and the dismissal of the case. Nevertheless, the school director decided that despite his good results he was not allowed to pass his final exams. Around these small and large bullyings there is at least a smell of discrimination or even racism. Madam Minister, I assume that if the facts have really happened, you will strongly condemn them. But do you also have a plan to deal with such behavior? How do you think you can once again create more diversity in the police force, as there is clearly still work to be done in this area, so that there is also support for greater diversity in the training corps?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u34	Madam Minister, I would like to speak mainly for my region, the Flemish Rand, which has been suffering from a structural shortage of staff for many years. The pressure on police areas is very high, to the extent that they are no longer able to carry out their tasks properly. The current campaigns are therefore extremely important. Madam Minister, what efforts do you intend to make in the field of recruitment campaigns to recruit the intended number of recruits in the Flemish Rand? Complementary to the federal campaigns, some police zones launched additional campaigns. That's what happened in the Flemish Rand. Madam Minister, in what areas do you consider it possible and appropriate to provide additional support for such regional campaigns from the Recruitment and Selection Service? What parts of the renewed concept are in favour of greater involvement of local police? In what way will there be better cooperation? The lead times of recruitment are now extremely long due to the problematic shortages of profiles at the Recruitment and Selection department. The strengthening of these services would consist of 27 profiles, with a considerable budget attached, which is fine. According to the services, a shortage of psychologists is one of the major bottlenecks. With more psychologists, the tests can be completed faster. Very rightly, ten new psychologists were sought to strengthen the service and serve the entire process. Madam Secretary, can you give us an update? Are the profiles filled in? If not, to what extent should or will that still be done? With current capacity, is a reduction in the lead time a realistic way of thinking? How much could the lead time already be shortened in the past year? To what extent does the corona pandemic still interfere with the selection and recruitment of recruits? Is digitisation already more than sufficiently established throughout the whole process?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u35	Madam Secretary, I would like to join my colleagues' questions. The recruitment of additional staff for our police services is one of the main challenges for the government. We are therefore pleased that you are putting your full weight behind this and that you are committed to implementing the ambitions of the coalition agreement and your policy paper. The reform of the selection procedure for the integrated police is therefore a good thing. You announced that the selection has become more efficient. Can you clarify what that means in concrete terms? What changes have been made to achieve this? From now on, a candidate should know within 18 weeks whether he or she has been selected. It is a good thing that the candidates are clear as soon as possible. However, 18 weeks remains a fairly long period. Will efforts be made in the coming years to bring that deadline down even further? We also welcome the fact that a number of tests have been digitised. Can you clarify what tests are involved? You yourself set the recruitment of 1,600 inspectors per year as an objective from 2021 onwards. Will that target be met this year? Finally, I have a question about the recent recruitment campaign. We have all seen the attractive advertising films on television. The campaign is still running, but are there any effects?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u36	Mr President, Madam Minister, of course I agree with all my colleagues in the various questions they have put to you. But I would like to talk to you about the border area with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Don't worry, I'm not going to ask you to grant Belgian policemen the treatment they receive from the Grand-Ducal police. But I will nevertheless, Madam Minister, insist on a fact that sometimes really poses problems for us to recruit young people: it is the cost of housing in this region. In time, the gendarmerie barracks had housing. It really helped. Today, we have already wondered if this service housing system for police officers should not be re-established to attract them to areas where the cost of housing is so high that they do not know how to settle there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u37	Mr President, Mr Pivin, the movement of the intervention service on 12 July is the result of a change of schedule, adopted on 1 April this year. This movement resulted in the delivery of medical certificates. In general, medical absences in the Midi zone reached an average of 18.49 days per staff member in 2021 for the operational pillar. With regard to requests for support from the Federal Police, they are submitted for specific events, not for regular work. In addition, the reinforcements requested through the directors-coordinators can be made up of police officers from other police areas, not just from the federal police. We also note the reinforcement events cancelled with the Covid-19 pandemic, including football matches and prison support. With regard to recruitment, the Federal Police organized a day of information and simulation of the sports event. The Brussels-Midi police zone also participates in the Young Talent in Action event to be held in Brussels in October. A working group including one representative from each Brussels police area and federal services will be established. Its mission will be to find solutions to this problem and to determine how to stimulate recruitment in the Brussels-Capital Region. The federal police also provide support in the organization of open houses or other events, to all areas and services that request them. This support can take the form of a loan of material, advertising on social networks or other. The federal police also form recruitment contact points in each police area, with the aim of achieving better recruitment and greater accessibility to potential future candidates. For the figures of structural support for the federal police, I would ask you to submit a written question. I can confirm that the new recruitment concept entered into force on 14 September 2021. Before that date, 5,805 candidates had already started selection. For 70 candidates, the new concept was launched. I would like to give you an overview of the main changes in the new selection procedure. First of all, it is a shortened procedure. The general selection procedure shall be completed within the 18 weeks following the day of the first test. The recruitment and selection department of the federal police draws up a list of the laureates who applied and gives it to the relevant appointing government, the police zone or the federal service. This government then selects from the recruitment reserve the laureates that are most suitable and can organise a job interview to ensure that the laureates and the unit of destination match. The chief of police or supervisor shall have the final responsibility and shall ensure that interviews reflect an objective result. The zone or unit in question therefore chooses the candidates that fit the profile that the police zone or federal service is looking for. There is therefore also greater involvement in the selection and recruitment of police zones and federal services. They are involved in the selection process. The candidate shall start his training as soon as he is recruited by his future zone or service. In addition, workplace learning and internship also take place in the future zone or service. In the new selection concept, the selection committee at the level of the Federal Police Recruitment and Selection Service has been deleted and a morality committee and quality control is introduced. In addition, there are adjustments to increase diversity and adjustments for candidates with learning disabilities. All new tests for candidates are online, but a number of tests are done at home and others on the spot. On the spot, the cognitive skill test is performed and at home, the following tests are carried out: the personality test, the inventory of behavioural patterns, the situational assessment test and the completion of the motivation questionnaire. To date, so for the new selection process, the average lead time of a candidacy was between 11 and 13 months. The new concept can conclude this within the 18 weeks following the first test, provided that the dossier submitted by the applicant is complete, that all the necessary additional documents were submitted in good time, that the applicant does not mention a period of unavailability to take the tests, that the applicant was not absent from the selection tests and that he or she does not invoke any appeal or re-opportunity during the procedure. So those 18 weeks are the standard term. Recruitment campaigns have indeed been launched, which will run for a number of weeks. It uses both the usual media channels and external channels. The own channels are, for example, the press release, a press event or the renewed jobpol.be website. The external campaign uses classic media channels such as radio, video, printed and online newspapers, as well as social media such as Youtube, LinkedIn, Facebook and Instagram. For the specialised functions of, inter alia, Commissioner and Superintendent with special specialisation, simultaneous campaigns are launched. At present, the number of candidate police inspectors invited to the initial training in 2021 is 1,261. That number refers to the aspirants who are currently being trained, the memberships of October and December, as well as the recruited candidates who have already indicated that they want to start their training this year. However, the figures may still evolve. A number of candidates still have to indicate where and when they want to start basic training. In addition, some selections are still ongoing. Based on today's information, we can conclude that the signals that we will be able to recruit 1,600 policemen this year are positive. Mrs Goethals, specifically for Flemish Brabant, a regional campaign was launched. The federal police are actively involved in various platforms, events and information days in Flemish Brabant. A preparatory process for external candidates is also organised from Flemish Brabant. In collaboration with the police school in PIVO, an information day will be organised in December of this year. It is our experience that past targeted campaigns in Flemish Brabant have brought visible improvements to the integration of police schools during the second semester of 2021. It is still too early to answer your questions about the measurable impact of the new concept on the police zones, as it was not launched until September. It is conceivable that the effects of the new concept can be assessed for the first time in the first trimester of 2022. 2022 shall in any case become a transitional year. After all, candidates are still pouring out of the old concept and of course there are those who register after 15 September of this year. The optimal lead time of the whole procedure will therefore not be fully evaluated until 2023. However, as from 15 September, the first selection will be completed within 18 weeks and a candidate will therefore be able to apply to the units. Apart from that, diversity is, of course, also a focus in the new selection concept. There is no place for racism or discrimination in the police forces. To this end, the police services have also contributed to the drafting of the inter-federal action plan against racism. This plan not only focuses on the fight against racism in society, but also provides for actions to prevent and tackle racism in the workplace. In addition to the reactive measures, the police services are proactively engaged in dealing with diversity. During both initial and continuing training, the theme is brought to the attention. In addition, more support is being sought through communication campaigns. Mr Moyaers, several areas have indeed carried out a number of campaigns. That's not what the new concept is about. Previously they also worked with different gadgets and communication methods. The standing committee could consider this issue. In any case, it is a good thing that the individuality of the zones can play a role. We will have to look at how this individuality can be optimally reconciled with the harmonisation we consider desirable in the recruitment campaigns. Mr Arens, I have noted your request for recruitment in the cross-border area. Maybe we need to think about a specific campaign. I will put the idea on the table during discussions on the concept of recruitment and selection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u38	Thank you for the answers. I will complete my question with more precise written requests on the figures. In terms of personnel, recruitment and training are the core of the problem of police ill-being. You have to be very careful about it. I mentioned the number of 4,700 missing police officers: among them, more than 300 police officers are missing at the DAB level. The DAB was created after the attacks, to relieve military missions, to secure various places in the country. It is therefore extremely valuable: 330 people who are missing at the level of the DAB, it bothers me, especially when I think that we will need them next year to secure the organisation of the trial of the attacks. So I really want to pay attention to all aspects of the recruitment problem. I know that you are in control of this issue and I sincerely hope that initiatives such as campaigns, open days and open days will pay off at the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u39	I strongly believe in the new recruitment procedure. Not only are local police areas involved, recruitment is also much faster, in four months rather than in eleven to thirteen months. In this way, fewer candidates will drop out as well, and that is necessary. After all, the figures are dramatic. In 2020, only the local police zones in Belgium had 4,300 people short. In Flemish Brabant that is minus 16 %, in Halle-Vilvoorde minus 9 %, in Leuven minus 10 %, in Luxembourg minus 17 %, in Brussels capital minus 14 %. Antwerp and Limburg are doing better with minus 5 % and minus 1 %. The next two to three years will therefore be very difficult for the police zones. The 1,261 people who start today will not be operational in the zones for a year and a half. Meanwhile, policemen retire or leave the police to work in the private sector, as happens in every company. It will take five to ten years to complete the corps. In Flemish Brabant, the governor took the initiative in April to roll out local campaigns together with a number of chiefs and mayors. We are doing so because our region is heavily in deficit and because the mobility aspect plays a major role. Citizens of Limburg or West Flanders do not go to Flemish Brabant to work in the police during the day. Competition and a rush on talent are insurmountable. Can you introduce some kind of cliquet system, so that the most deficit zones are given priority today in the placement of the graduate recruits? That is the duty of policy makers. We cannot allow heavy deficit areas to remain in two years' time, with mayors and police chiefs unable to organise basic security, while other corps can operate at full power. A solidarity system needs to be put in place, because there are already plans for a switch-off in many local police areas in the outskirts of Brussels. In the area where I live, we stop putting policemen in the schools because we just don't have them. We're putting less in for neighborhood work because we don't have enough cops. Intervention and traffic are the priorities. We also need to see how, within the next two or three years, when all new recruits are employed, we can effectively support local police areas. You have my full support in your new recruitment campaign. I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for these very specific answers. I support you in this new recruitment procedure because I think it's a good thing. We had to find solutions, be creative in order to be able to make this procedure again but also the profession of police officer attractive. I think we still have a little work to do, but this is a very positive first step forward. You mentioned a figure of about 1,200, I think it's a good figure at this point, a year after you took office, and I think we're moving towards a positive balance sheet because I feel that we're going to achieve the goals we set ourselves. In any case, the signals seem to be green at the moment, so it's joyous. So you know that I support you on this path and I encourage you to continue the work that has been done so far in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very punctual answer. I heard colleagues say that an open day can also be very important to recruit new people. Well, last Sunday, despite the pouring rain, I was able to go to the open day of both the headquarters of my police area and the adjacent office of the relief zone. Despite the rain, the open day was a huge success. It can only help. 5,805 candidates in the old procedure and 70 in the new one, which gives us 1,261 aspirants today, a provisional number that hopefully will increase even further. Of all the candidates who start the selection procedure, one in five actually starts the training, if I understand correctly. I therefore believe that it is important to be able to recruit properly and to motivate candidates to start that training. I note that adjustments are being made to increase diversity. You said that candidates with learning disabilities should also be better advanced. I still wonder what is actually happening to increase diversity effectively. I will put an additional question on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u42	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. It doesn't look bad, we have to be honest about that. Fortunately, there are already 1,261 aspirants. I am also very pleased with the extra effort through the PIVO, because our area is also facing a deficit to tell you, as is the case in the whole of the Rand. I share Mr Vandenput's concern that the aspirants will not be ready for work for another year and a half. So there's gonna be a hole that we need to fill. I share the view that it is best to introduce some kind of formula to allow the most deficit zones to be first addressed, for example by requiring candidates in those zones to do their internship, which means that they should remain there for about six months to one year. That suggestion seems important to me to take. Unfortunately, I haven't really had an answer to my question as to whether the required number of psychologists, a bottleneck at the Recruitment and Selection department, is being filled in. You say that the goal of an 18-week lead time is achieved. I therefore assume that the necessary psychologists have already been recruited and that the tests will proceed as they should. I do not know to what extent that assumption is correct, but if necessary I shall put a written question on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u43	Mrs Goethals, I would indeed like to suggest that you put a written question on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u44	Fine, I will.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u45	The figures show that the policy is working, even though it is still a year and a half before the aspirants are operational. Finally, the campaigns are aligned. Finally, there are results. We'll see them on the field after a year and a half. Several speakers called for the new forces to be classified as a priority in the deficit zones. I understand that question, but candidates are failing, precisely because they want to be deployed on the ground. I call for that to be taken into account. We must not lose qualitative candidates in this way. We need a balance. You will not hear me say that we should not give extra support to areas that are on their gums, but we should not give candidates the right to go there. We must proceed with caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for being attentive to my intervention. I imagine that, like your colleagues, you regularly participate in meetings with your counterparts in Luxembourg. I would like to take this opportunity to invite you to visit my region. We will gladly welcome you there with pleasure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u47	I go to Luxembourg tomorrow, the agenda is already complete, but I keep the invitation in memory.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u48	Question No 55019530C by Mrs Séverine de Laveleye is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u49	Mr President, Madam Minister, at the end of the parliamentary session, you announced your wish to remove the 24-hour firefighters' guards. As you know, on the ground, this decision is not unanimous. According to some public statements that followed, it seems that this project you announced is finally suspended. At the time I tabled this question several weeks ago, the representatives of the firefighters themselves said that the 24-hour "loop" makes it possible to better manage the rest periods while the interventions would be more efficient in these stable periods of double clock tower. In addition, this period organization would guarantee periods of training and training for firefighters. This question is all the more sensitive, it seems to me, since the events of July. The crisis situation and flood management have once again demonstrated the essential and particular work of firefighters. Madam Minister, could you please tell me on what specific and scientific indicators regarding individual and collective management, both physically and psychologically, do you base this abolition project? Which agencies have they studied the management of these firefighting periods and in which emergency areas? What conclusions have been drawn and what results are available? What consultations have been held with zone commanders and fire brigade representatives on this issue? What is the ongoing consultation with representatives of the sector? Do you confirm that this deletion project is suspended? What actions and communications do you intend to take on this issue in the near future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u50	Minister, my first question also concerns the removal of 24-hour firefighters. To avoid repeating what my colleague said, I wanted to know where you were in relation to this proposal. I remember that she would also be in stand by compared to the announcements made in the course of June. I have very specific questions about this. I would like to know the criteria on which you based your deletion announcement. I would like to know where you are in relation to the consultation of trade unions and zone commanders, and whether a typical 12-24 / 12-48 timetable hypothesis was being studied, as proposed in particular by some relief zones as part of a positive alternative to this abolition. I would also like to know whether, indeed, you are in stand-by as regards the removal of 24 hour shifters or whether it is only corridor noises, which are due to the fact that you are working more precisely on the file. My second question concerned attacks on firefighters and the notice of strike announced on September 27, if I am not mistaken. In this regard, my questions were as follows. Firefighters want the prosecution of firefighter attacks to be strengthened. How do you intend to respond to this request? For 2019, 2020 and 2021, would you have any figures on the possible prosecutions that would have been the result of violence against firefighters? How can we achieve zero tolerance such as that to which we have committed ourselves, especially for the police? In 2019, it is known that 20 vehicles of the SIAMU were attacked, including by throwing objects, stones, etc. How can we reduce the numbers of these attacks? Beyond the repressive aspect, I also wanted to know the levers that could possibly be activated in terms of prevention. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u51	Mr President, Minister, my question is more directed towards the fire district of Rivierenland. This has largely to do with the great course event that we had in Leuven a dozen days ago, which also passed the fire station in Mechelen. Volunteers in the fire department are sometimes harder available, so sometimes posts are unable to pull out. To do something about this, the fire zone Rivierenland wants to work with insured posts in Mechelen, Heist-op-den-Berg, Lier, Puurs and Boom. The intention is to have a post ejected after an urgent call within 2 to 5 minutes. For this there seems to be a lot of shifts and in Mechelen there will be a smaller permanence in the barracks. When the World Cup races passed the Nekkerhal, we were treated to a true folk festival that passed through the Flemish country, but the liberal trade union also saw the passage through the fire station of Mechelen as an ideal forum to announce a strike. For the barracks at the Nekker Hall, the trade unionists, using fire hoses, had put in giant red letters "wrong policy." They had sirens moaning from intervention vehicles. The liberal association VSOA has submitted a strike announcement to cease for 72 hours from Wednesday 29 September. They called their people to stay home. If the operational operation of the corps was compromised, the police could take people home. Madam Secretary, is this trend, a threatening shortage of operational personnel, visible in several zones? Do you believe that this will put more and more pressure on the safety of both operational and population members? Do you have a plan of action to ensure that there are sufficient operational members within each assistance area? If, during a strike period, there is a disaster that prevents the fire department from pulling out, then how is the safety of affected citizens guaranteed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u52	As I recalled in plenary on 1 July, there are no plans to amend the Working Time Act. The current regulations remain in force and emergency stations operating with a 24-hour working regime may continue to operate. I also announced that I would like to launch a broad consultation on the problem of the 24-hour working regime in a row. On July 7, 2021, I met with the unions representing the firefighters. The joint press release issued after the interview announced the creation of a working group composed of representatives of the fire service networks unions, the Strategy and Support FPS, the Public Health FPS, the Employment, Labour and Social Concertation FPS and the Interior FPS. The principle of this working group is to ensure the operational functioning of the emergency areas, to ensure the safety and well-being of fire service personnel and to ensure the quality of the services provided. More generally, the working group is responsible for preparing for the future. It will examine whether a 24-hour working regime for fire service personnel is possible and, if so, under what conditions and how it could be maintained or introduced. Of course, each system envisaged must also comply with Belgian and European legislation. A first meeting was held on 22 September, in a constructive atmosphere, under the chairmanship of the Director-General of Civil Security. All partners around the table agreed to collect various data and information for the next meeting, to be held on 27 October. Mrs Song, first of all, I would like to give my full support to the SIAMU team-mates who have once again been victims of aggression in intervention. These facts have no place in our society. They are inconceivable and scandalous, and I strongly condemn them. However, the issues of prosecution and criminal policy fall within the purview of my colleague in charge of justice. For the relief areas, I encourage them to take civil action for the aggression against the firefighters. At the beginning of January, I sent a letter to my colleague, Minister of Justice, asking him to ensure prompt follow-up to legal proceedings in the event of firefighting attacks. However, I encourage every area, where it is concerned by such acts, to file a complaint. To prevent this phenomenon, I recently launched the Respect Mutuel campaign. It aims to strengthen trust between citizens and safety professionals, including firefighters. Finally, in order for the campaign to be successful, it is necessary to establish cooperation with the citizen himself. Through citizen participation initiatives, we are trying to facilitate positive dialogue and build trust. At the beginning of this month, I launched an internal communication campaign specifically for operational agents in the relief zones. This Friday, the second part of this campaign on the phenomena of aggression was launched. As part of this internal campaign, we encourage firefighters and rescue areas as employers to file complaints after each incident. Beyond the filing of complaints, systematic registration of assault cases provides statistics and a clear picture of the problem. This information can then be used to identify the context of the attack and serve as a guide for developing preventive measures and guidelines to combat attacks. As part of the firefighters' risk prevention campaign, on 1 October I sent a letter to each rescue zone, in which I invited them to put in place a policy to manage the attacks. In addition, my services offer training dedicated to firefighters to learn how to manage an assault. These will be highlighted in the context of the second theme of the prevention campaign mentioned above. Mr Moyaers, as far as my services know, the safety of the inhabitants is not at present compromised because the staff would not be able to respond to the calls for help. With regard to the strike in Rivierenland, I have to wait with you for the talks between the union and the administration of the relief zone. However, I am convinced that the necessary measures are being taken within the aid area to ensure the safety of the citizens concerned. One of the major advantages of the fire reform is the scale-up that has taken place, which also allows for interventions from the network of posts, so that safety can be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answers. That's good news! Therefore, no project is in preparation. Compliance with current regulations is being pursued. Having said that, I welcome the work carried out in concert, but I would like to know the schedule of work of this working group. I would also like to know for what period you expect proposals on the working conditions of the areas. I suppose you'll be able to come back with these details.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u54	Minister, I am pleased to hear that there are no plans on your part to abolish the 24-hour guards. I also welcome the establishment of the consultation and the working group that you mentioned. I will come back to you later for more information on the outcome of these consultations and the working group. As far as my second question is concerned, I thank you simply for the answers. For your good information, I have put a similar question to your colleague from Justice who will probably bring me other information that you cannot provide me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u55	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u56	Question No 55019589C by Mrs Jadin is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u57	Madam Minister, the OCAD's activity report has already warned against an increase in right-wing extremism on the Internet. Since 2020, potentially violent extremists have been added to the common database. There's been a massive rise in potentially violent extremists. The annual report of the Committee I points in the same direction. Islamic extremism is often hidden away, while right-wing extremism is less hidden with all kinds of possible influences, including directed at young people. The Committee I makes a number of suggestions. It suggests that the government and the National Security Council should clarify what are priority areas in this context and that a definition of right-wing extremism would also be needed. When do you expect to complete the ongoing update of the Plan R? Does this pay particular attention to tackling right-wing extremism? What steps will the government take to address the extreme right-wing threat on the Internet? Will additional prevention for young people be used, in cooperation with the Communities? What steps are you taking to improve cooperation between police, intelligence services and public prosecutors? Will the government pursue a legal definition of right-wing extremism?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u58	The Plan R has been updated by the Extremism and Terrorism Strategic Note adopted by the Consultation Committee on 8 September. Within the framework of the Plan R, the structures already covered the different forms of extremism, but when the plan was adopted in 2015, the threat was mainly based on Islamic extremism. The strategic note today covers all forms of extremism. In this area, too, prevention is now being used more than in the past. The priority follow-up to the fight against right-wing extremism is contained in the strategic note which sets out how the services should cooperate in a multidisciplinary manner and at different levels in order to track the most problematic entities within the phenomenon and to reduce the risks posed by such persons. This is one of the most important, if not the most important, axes to combat right-wing extremism in Belgium. The multidisciplinary approach means that measures can be both proactive, preventive and repressive, or also aimed at social reintegration. The strategic note takes into account the online dimension of the threat, but it is clear that Collegial work can be carried out on these principles. To this end, we can work with social media companies in the context of managing the algorithms that create the soundboards or simply with regard to the content. We can also work on primary prevention, possibly through media education, and developing critical thinking. Of course, the competence for this lies with the Communities. The federal government is now pursuing a stricter policy on the removal of content on the Internet. Through police operations within the federal police, the central management of DJSOC has the i2-IRU cell that detects illegal content on the Internet related to propaganda, terrorism, radicalism and violent extremism and refers to the different platforms with the demand for removal. The cell also provides searches for available elements on the Internet for the benefit of the integrated police and the partners such as intelligence services and judicial magistrates. In addition, the status of hate propaganda is used by the OCAD to identify persons who spread extremist and terrorist propaganda on social media and/or in the physical world. Social contact and group dynamics still play a very important role in the radicalisation process. Through the multidisciplinary follow-up provided for in the strategic note, all the services concerned aim to continue to give priority to the phenomenon of right-wing extremism. In the first instance, this follow-up is aimed at addressing entities that are scaled up as vectors of radicalisation or violence. This is done through the common database and the follow-up to the respective local task forces, where the exchange of information is under way, as well as the joint discussion of the measures to be taken. Those entities can be considered the top of the pyramid. Apart from the entities that have a statute in the common database, it is not obvious to have an exhaustive view of the size of the group of extremists in our country. At best, there are figures on individuals who have shown a certain degree of willingness to act, but this is always a matter of caution and an imperfect instrument to make a sound assessment. There is therefore good cooperation today between the intelligence services and the police, who meet regularly to discuss events, groups, persons and the content of the phenomenon. Today, moreover, there is also a definition of extremism contained in the law on intelligence in 1998. This definition is also used in the context of the approach to right-wing extremism. That is a directive to determine whether there is extremism from the right or from any other angle.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u59	Madam Minister, the legal definition is an important starting point for organising legal action and serves as a legal basis for this. I have two more suggestions. Firstly, the common database is an important tool, but the Crossroads Security Bank, recommended by the Committee of Inquiry into the terrorist attacks, could be an additional tool, especially as regards the exchange of information and cooperation across all the services you have mentioned and others. Secondly, you spoke about the role of social media companies. Think also of what we have heard about the puddle of a whistle-blower about a social media company which is not insignificant. This deserves an international approach. It is not a national phenomenon in terms of responsibility and accountability for those companies and their algorithms.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u60	Mr President, thank you for your flexibility on the agenda, which allowed me to come from my other committee so that I could ask my question. Minister, it has now been more than six months since the Chooz 2 reactor was shut down because of zirconium, the metal that forms the fuel sheaths, severs and falls into the tank. The spokesperson for the Nuclear Safety Authority (NSA) explained a few weeks ago that the potential risk of this phenomenon in operation is a risk of leaking affected fuel crayons. Even more worrying, two fuel crayons then broke. The shutdown of the reloading reactor, which was expected to last only one month, was therefore extended until 31 August. We can hope today that the situation is under control, especially since the ASN indicated that there had been no leakage despite the corrosion. This is obviously excellent news. However, in order to protect the sheaths, the restart will be only 90 per cent of the capacity and with the advice of the Institute of Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety and the Nuclear Safety Authority, which will arrive in mid-August and late August respectively. Minister, what are the conclusions of these two reports on the new Chooz 2 operating protocol? Do they give full guarantees for the safety of the residents of the Chooz nuclear power plant?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u61	Mr President, Mrs Cornet, as I mentioned in your previous question on the Chooz nuclear power plant, it is above all important to mention that nuclear safety is a national competence for which each national safety authority is responsible. In the case of France, this is the Nuclear Safety Authority. About Chooz's last arrest, the ASN communicated on September 6th via its website. In its communication, the ASN explains its decision by stating that, following a sample examination of the results of the checks and work carried out during the shutdown, the ASN gave its consent on 13 August to the restart of reactor 2 at the Chooz nuclear power plant. This agreement took into account, in particular, EDF's proposed strategy for the selection of fuel assemblies to form the core of the reactor and the compensatory measures proposed by EDF to control the corrosion kinetics of fuel pencil sheaths. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN), the competent authority in Belgium, maintains its confidence in its French counterpart. Although the AFCN cannot express itself on matters outside its jurisdiction, it nevertheless considers that, while the ASN agreed to the restart, the safety of the facilities was always guaranteed and, therefore, also the safety of the residents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u62	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that you confirm that there is no nuclear risk, which is good news for the residents of Namur province who are very close to this plant. It is still a question of atypical corrosion, of tubes that break. You will therefore understand the astonishment and fears of these citizens. I hear the AFCN maintains its trust. However, the NSA reports do not report controls. In addition, it seems to me that you are referring to a communication via the website, which leads me to believe that there is no direct communication between the ASN and the AFCN, which is rather surprising for an incident of this magnitude. In any case, I invite you to continue to collaborate and dialogue with the nuclear authorities of our neighbouring friends who have facilities close to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u63	Mr President, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your question as well as for the method of working. I-Police is the police's important digital transformation project. It is also the biggest IT implementation journey of the police for the coming years. Its funding is now ahead of the budget conclave, so I cannot and will not go into it now. You asked about the size of the costs of the i-Police route and the initial estimate from 2016. In 2016, when this project was launched, the costs of i-Police were calculated on the basis of the replacement of the ANG and the replacement of the basic data banks ISLP and FEDIS. The scope was then estimated at €90 million. However, this limited scope was embedded in a broader vision and in the publication of a framework contract project, which later would buy additional functionalities in addition to the basic replacements. A modular cutlery has therefore been chosen from the outset. The findings of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on terrorist attacks subsequently highlighted new phenomena such as cybercrime and the growing share of digital information exchange on different platforms. The large-scale research into Sky ECC is an immediate example of this. The Committee of Inquiry also reiterated certain shortcomings which had to do with the dispersal of information and the distinction between information from administrative and judicial police. On this basis, the Committee of Inquiry found it essential to make greater changes, so that an integrated information image can be created with maximum protection of privacy. It is precisely for this reason that the scope of i-Police was extended on the one hand with more performing tools to collect the hidden data and, on the other hand, there can also be an extension of data analysis applications to analyse, interpret and connect the exponential growth of digital information, so that they can be offered to researchers in a workable form. Another reason for extending the scope is the publication of the 2016 Law Enforcement Directive, the EU Data Protection Directive within the police context. Since it is not itself subject to the GDPR Directive for rational information processing, that specific Directive should be taken into account. That is why there is also a need for major structural adjustments in central data management. These can only be efficiently integrated and implemented in a modern technological platform, which also requires additional design from the suppliers. Moreover, the scope today takes into account a number of necessary renewal projects within the integrated police. It was decided to wait for i-Police not to do any unnecessary duplication of work in the period just before the award. Those functionalities were also included in the evolution of the award in the framework contract to be ordered. The elements I just mentioned mean that the budgeted cost over eight years of i-Police exceeds the initial estimate. We stress that the extension of this estimate is not due to the progress of the procedure, either to a poor initial estimate or to a poor implementation. After all, implementation will only start after the award and for this reason has clearly not resulted in any hidden costs. As I just said, this budget expansion has to do with side paths, which are necessary to enable i-Police, to get to the ground and to be able to make it a modern and futureproof concept. For the integration of Focus with i-Police, the necessary budgets are included throughout the eight-year period. This integration will be possible by internal actors, in particular the current organisation of the Antwerp Police, but also the ICT service of the integrated police. Moreover, it is intended that the manufacturing organisation will provide a development environment in which other police forces in Focus can also implement certain applications and allow interconnection. The environment can also be used to allow police applications to be developed by third parties, for example software companies that are selected through a market procedure and can therefore connect to i-Police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u65	Mr President, Minister, I understand that you are not yet able to say everything about funding, because you are in full negotiation in the nuclear cabinet. I should like to congratulate you on that. It's not an unimportant file. I'm a little scared, and many with me, that part of that cost will end up back on the local shoulders. These are additional costs that the local police zones can no longer bear. I'll follow this up, and I look forward to seeing what you can pull out of the fire.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u66	Minister, the April 26, 2021 circular on identity cards with a period of validity limited to one year with temporary impossibility to provide fingerprints states that if the slightest fingerprint cannot be provided due to a physical disability or illness, municipalities have the possibility to issue an identity card without a fingerprint with a period of validity limited to twelve months. It seems to me curious that a person with a disability who is unable to provide fingerprints must renew his or her identity card annually, whereas a valid person must do so only every ten years. Minister, who is the mission to say if the impossibility of providing fingerprints is temporary or permanent? Is the municipal employee competent for this? What happens if fingerprints are permanently unavailable? For a person with a disability, such as severe and degenerative arthritis, is there a possibility of not having to renew his/her identity card every year? "It seems that reading the data of the new eIDs poses some problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u67	- What is the agenda for the possible update to be made?"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u68	Madam Secretary, I will certainly not go over my whole question. I will simply ask the specific questions. Do you share the view of the Flemish Association of Officials and Officials Civil Status that it is up to the federal government to thoroughly inform citizens about the new identity cards? Are you ready to organize an information campaign on the new identity cards? If you do not wish or would not consider this new information campaign, what additional steps will the FPS take to address the problem and address the concerns of the organisations in the field, such as the Flemish Association of Officials and Officials Civil Status? How can the organisations concerned be better supported in this respect? Finally, the roll-out of the new identity cards will take a total of 10 years. How will you ensure, in the course of the process, that problems arise less or no more?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u69	Mr President, I refer once again to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u70	I should like to point out to Members that, if you refer to the questions put in writing, this cannot be combined with the reading of part of the question. It's either one or the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u71	Mrs Song, fingerprints are digitized at the initiative of the municipal authority by means of ad hoc sensors. The obvious impossibility of providing fingerprints was left to his discretion. In case of doubt, a medical certificate dated less than one month must be produced. An identity card or a foreigner's card without fingerprints is issued to persons whose fingerprints are permanently physically impossible to trace. This is the case, for example, for people with disabilities, such as severe arthritis. An identity card without a fingerprint is then issued for a period of ten years – this period is 30 years for a person over 75 years of age. Where none of the applicant's fingers may temporarily be physically fingerprinted, an identity card or foreign card without a fingerprint shall be issued for a period of 12 months, in accordance with European and national rules. The problem of identity cards encountering difficulties in reading the chip is twofold. Firstly, the citizen must update the middleware so that he can still read the electronic identity card. Secondly, the developers of many eID applications need to be informed of this. The federal government has already communicated with the various target groups long before the launch of the new secure chip and will continue to do so in the future. For example, a specific website and a forum with all technical information were developed for the developers of e-ID applications a few years ago. The professional associations Febelfin and Fednot, as well as the municipalities and their IT suppliers, have also been contacted, so that everyone is aware of the update and these organizations can contact their members. In addition, we also sent direct communication to nearly 110 application developers for the electronic ID card. These communications campaigns took place in the summer of 2020, several months before the launch of the new smart card in April 2021. The Strategy and Support FPS was also asked to disseminate communication to its contacts through its own channels. We notice that communication about the new contact chip does not seem to have reached all the organisations and that there are still problems with reading the contact chip of the card. Therefore, the services will continue to focus on communication, both with regard to municipalities and with regard to developers of eID applications. A campaign of great importance to citizens is not taking place at this stage because the maps are gradually being replaced. This means that at present only a minority of Belgians have an identity card equipped with the new chip. In order to properly inform citizens, we plan to have permanent communication during the months and years that follow. The federal government has also already posted a link to the update of the middleware on various websites, such as the federal government's login portal. Finally, we are, of course, counting on the cooperation of the municipalities that are our partners in this project. Before the launch of the new card, communication was already made with all municipalities as well as with the IT suppliers. The aim is to support the municipalities in their communication to the citizen by making available to them concrete information which they can disseminate through their channels (website, information sheet of the municipality, etc.).). The citizen must perform the available update himself as he does with any application. At the same time, our services are working on the development of a possible automatic update of the middleware.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u72	Madam Minister, thank you for your information on the particular case of persons with disabilities and the renewal of identity cards. I will not fail to pass this information on to the bodies that have asked me about it. I am pleased to hear that campaigns have been carried out, that many contacts have been made, including direct contacts with developers, and that the SPF is on the matter of communication management. As stated, we are currently in a first phase. We will have to adapt together and collectively. I count on the competent services to carry out this mission so that everyone receives the information and these problems no longer persist.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u73	For me it is clearly an en-en-story, of the FOD, the services, the cities and municipalities. Furthermore, I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u74	The answer was clear and I have no further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, with regard to the use of highly enriched uranium in Belgium, and this issue of security risks, reference should be made to the Royal Decrees of 17 October 2011 on nuclear safety. They state that a graduated approach is required for nuclear facilities. The higher the risk to a facility, the greater the safety and the greater the measures put in place. At SCK CEN, with regard to the handling of the equipment concerned, measures have been put in place to comply with the requirements of the royal decrees. As far as the process of converting low enriched uranium is concerned, it is managed by the SCK. Information on this process, timetable and waste management may be requested from this institution. The PSAN will closely monitor the process through its role as a nuclear safety authority. Since the end of April 2020, medical radioisotopes have been regularly produced from low enriched uranium at the Radioelements Institute in Fleurus. This transition continues step by step with the exclusive use of uranium as its purpose. As for the question of monitoring radioactive leaks from nuclear fuel crayons following the Taishan incident. You will find many answers to your current questions in the parliamentary questions you had already asked my predecessor in 2019 and 2020. As already stated by the AFCN, unsealed fuel crayons are found in many nuclear reactor cores around the world. So this is not an unusual or worrying fact, as you mentioned. The unsealed pencils are removed from the core of the reactor at the end of the cycle during which the inseam appeared. The situation in the reactor core in terms of pencil leakage is therefore reset to zero at each cycle. The number of unsealed crayons has been significantly reduced in recent years compared to previous years due to improvements in the design of combustible components. The crayons cannot be removed from the swimming pools as long as they are unquenchable. In view of the dismantling of nuclear power plants, Engie Electrabel has therefore in recent years set up a programme of repairs to unsealed pencils in order to make them leakproof with a view to evacuating the swimming pools. As AFCN has mentioned in previous responses to parliamentary questions, the number of unsealed crayons remains small compared to the total number of fuel crayons. I can also confirm that Electrobel has not discovered any new crayons since 2013. As far as the comparison with the Taishan nuclear power plant is concerned, to our knowledge this event in China had no impact outside the power plant. Unsealed pencils are operating deviations. These deviations are anticipated from the design of a power plant. If a defined threshold is exceeded, the power plant shall be shut down. In other words, the design of our facilities, as well as the procedures in place, avoids the impact of unsealed pencils on safety, the environment and the public. Another issue related to the operation of Tihange 1. First of all, I would like to point out that the limits on the heating of the Meuse water and the temperature of the discharged water are set by the Walloon Region and therefore do not fall within my competence or those of the AFCN. Whether or not to use the large cooling tower and reactor unit is an operational choice that has no impact on the safety of the nuclear reactor. I can confirm that nuclear facilities are designed to operate with or without the use of atmospheric refrigerants, or even with a mixed regime. As far as nuclear safety is concerned, there is therefore no limit to this use. The potential impact this will have on the thermal discharge of water into the Meuse is therefore not monitored by the AFCN, but is the responsibility of the regional environmental authorities. I therefore suggest that you address these questions to the competent minister of the Walloon Region. For more information on the thermal discharges from nuclear power plants, I also refer you to answer No. 8,076 which my predecessor has given you. You also asked about the Doel 2 reactor. As AFCN clearly communicated on its website on 15 July, during the night of 14-15 July 2021, the Doel 2 reactor was put to a preventive shutdown following a hydrogen leak into the alternator. Any type of power plant contains an alternator. It is also important to note that in a nuclear power plant, the alternator is located in the non-nuclear part of the power plant. The rotary motion of the steam turbine allows the alternator to transform energy into electricity. Hydrogen is often used to cool the alternator. I stress that a hydrogen leak in an alternator is not specifically related to the operation of a nuclear power plant. It can also occur in other types of power plants. The safety of the Doel 2 alternator is monitored by various measures. The results of these measurements, as well as the alarms attached to these measurements, are followed from the control room. During the night of 14-15 July, the operator noticed a rapid increase in hydrogen consumption in the alternator, indicating a leak. In accordance with the procedures, the operator decided to manually shut down the reactor in a preventive manner, which resulted in an immediate and drastic reduction of potential risks. An automatic shutdown was not necessary, since the parameters followed did not reach the values necessary to trigger an automatic shutdown. Since Electrabel shut down the reactor under the conditions laid down in the procedures, any degradation and related risks should not take place. After the shutdown, the operator checked the alternator, identified the leak and repaired it. It was a connection to a pressure measurement. The security authority has, of course, followed all this closely. A hydrogen leak in the alternator has already occurred in the past on several Belgian reactors. The operator is therefore well prepared for such incidents. With regard to your question on the distribution and validity of iodine tablets, I would like to point out that questions requiring a great deal of numerical data can be submitted to me in writing. You will understand that it is not possible to provide, in this oral format, all the requested and encrypted information. However, I give you some answers. As you know, federal authorities are making iodine tablets available to citizens and communities in pharmacies. The collection of iodine tablets is free and voluntary. We recommend possession of a tablet for people living in emergency planning areas and families with children, adolescents and/or pregnant women outside emergency planning areas. For people over 40 years of age, taking tablets is less appropriate and requires prior medical advice. Outside emergency planning areas, federal authorities recommend possession of tablets for vulnerable people, but not for people over the age of 40. Federal authorities are making every effort to protect citizens by offering them the opportunity to benefit easily and free of charge from tablets. In the case of a drug, the federal authorities have made the strategic choice to organize the provision by pharmacies. As to whether new iodine tablets will be distributed to communities, it is the responsibility of communities to have a sufficient stock of tablets, to update them to ensure their distribution to people in their communities. With regard to the sustainability of the 2010 campaign tablet stock available to Civil Protection (Crisnée and Brasschaat), an effectiveness test was carried out by Sciensano in the first half of 2021. The validity of iodine tablets was extended until May 2022. In accordance with the Nuclear Emergency Plan, a communication campaign on nuclear risk is organized periodically. Such a campaign is expected to take place in 2023. In addition to information campaigns, ongoing information is available on nuclear risk, including via the Internet. With regard to radioactive discharges at sea, in accordance with the OSPAR Treaty, most North Atlantic countries continuously monitor the quality of their territorial waters. Belgium, for example, provides continuous radiological monitoring of its territory and territorial waters. Each year, the AFCN carries out, in cooperation with the Belgian oceanographic research vessel Belgica, inspections throughout the maritime area and carries out a number of radioactivity measurements on samples taken at sea. The results confirm the absence of an impact on the radiological state and the marine environment, due to the release of national and international facilities and radioactive waste disposed of at sea. Belgium, which is represented by AFCN experts, actively participates in the activities and various multi-year projects of the Radioactive Substances Commettee of OSPAR, which aims to reduce the quantities of radioactive substances of human origin in the North Atlantic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u76	Minister, thank you for your answers. If I heard you correctly, the validity of the iodine pills that were distributed ten years ago was extended until 2022. What after 2022? Will the AFCN or the Department of the Interior redistribute iodine tablets after the expiry date? If you can't answer me right away, I'll reintroduce a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u77	I invite you to reintroduce a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u78	Mr President, Minister, first of all, the French and British Interior Ministers agreed in July on new measures to combat illegal migration. More police officers will control French beaches, and the UK has promised France more than 60 million euros to fight migration. Have you had similar conversations with your British colleague? Were funds also granted on our Flemish coast? If not, what are you waiting for? If so, what means? Secondly, the British Minister of the Interior wants to discourage people from crossing the Channel by introducing higher prison sentences for smugglers and illegal migrants. Are you prepared to increase the penalties for illegal migration in this country as well? Thirdly and finally, a record number of migrants tried to cross the Channel from France to the United Kingdom in August, as reported by the British Ministry of the Interior. More than 800 people, spread over 30 small boats, tried to make the crossing on Saturday, August 21st. On the same day, the French authorities were able to stop almost 200 people spread over 10 boats. The previous record was set on August 12th, not so long before. Nearly 600 people then tried to sail. So far, more than 12,500 migrants have tried to cross the Channel in 2021, compared to 8,000 migrants across 2020. That's an increase of more than half. According to your partymate, the West Flemish Governor Carl Decaluwé, the additional migrants from Afghanistan must be taken into account. A large part of these refugees are on their way to the United Kingdom, according to the governor. It often happens that the crossing is made from France, but also from our coast and the port of Zeebrugge. That is why the governor urges the federal government, the Flemish government, and Europe to invest in thermal cameras along the Flemish coast. Has the West Flemish governor already contacted the federal government about this? What is the federal government's view on this thermal camera shield? Is the government willing to invest in this camera shield? Will the government discuss this with the Flemish Government and with Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u79	Mr President, Mr Vermeersch, as I have pointed out on several occasions, Belgium is in permanent contact with the United Kingdom with a view to combating transmigration to the UK and the illegal smuggling networks that organise this migration. By the way, we do the same with France. Our country has a double priority. On the one hand, preventing the departure of illegal migration to the United Kingdom and, on the other hand, dismantling the smuggling networks that organise illegal migration from our country or neighbouring countries. Relations with the United Kingdom are political, administrative and operational. The latest important meeting to coordinate cooperation between the United Kingdom and our country took place on 12 July between my administration and representatives of the British Home Office. During this consultation, which was also attended by the police forces responsible for immigration control in both countries, agreements were reached on further operational cooperation, but also on support, both financially and through staff, which the United Kingdom can offer to our country in the fight against illegal migration to that country. The UK representatives indicated that an additional budget is available for this, in addition to the amounts already allocated to the federal police and port authorities in recent years, in order to better protect the port from intruders. At the meeting on 12 July, it was agreed that the Home Office would continue to examine with the shipping police where additional material support would be desirable, taking into account the additional priorities. With regard specifically to the security of the port of Zeebrugge, these talks are held with the governor of West Flanders and the port authorities. My services, together with the governor, are also in contact with the Home Office and with the UK Border Force for the study of a proof or concept for testing a large range thermal camera that could be installed in De Panne. Following a similar experiment from the West Coast police zone that took place in the same place in 2020. The United Kingdom is prepared to finance this proof of concept. Such a camera could serve a double purpose. For example, it would be easier to detect movements of small boats at sea, which would allow faster intervention. In this way, accidents at sea with these boats can also be better prevented. In addition, suspicious movements on the beach, which indicate that transmigrants prepare the crossing from our beaches, could be noticed more quickly. I therefore believe that an investigation into such cameras can indeed be part of our policy to combat the activities of smuggling networks. Since these cameras have a very wide scope, we must ensure that they can operate in accordance with the applicable legal rules. I am thinking in particular of GDPR legislation. In addition, a number of operational aspects, such as management and operation, need to be examined in advance. Therefore, the governor's services were asked to compile a complete dossier, including an opportunity assessment of the project, a legal analysis of the outstanding points regarding the legal framework and a roadmap for the realisation of the project. With regard to the possible increase in prison sentences, I would like to refer you to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u80	Madam Minister, I do not hear any new elements in your reply. I do not hear any concrete amounts and only confirm existing initiatives. It is clear that while England and France are beginning to take illegal migration seriously, Belgium is lagging hopelessly behind trends and developments. As a result, illegal migration moves from the French coast to our Flemish coast. In the meantime, while France is even using soldiers to guard its beaches, it is mopping with the crane open for our policemen. This can no longer be done for the Flemish interest. For us, the illegals who roam the Flemish coast and elsewhere in Flanders must be traced, because a country that tolerates illegality on its territory cannot call itself a state of law. Illegality is and remains for us a form of crime that requires a firm approach. Those illegals should not only be arrested, they should also be locked up. Not only the Flemish Interest, but also the local mayors are asking parties for a closed center in West Flanders, from which those illegals are effectively expelled. Today they get an A4' with the friendly request to leave the territory. That's not serious. A firm return policy must be the final piece of any credible migration policy for us. Forced repatriations are therefore necessary to stop the suction effect to our Flemish coast. We must make every effort not to create Calais on our North Sea.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u81	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u82	Colleagues, the resumption of security missions by the police took place in several phases, as you may know. All relevant police services were involved in this process and were informed in advance of the Defence's final withdrawal schedule. The timetable has also been set in consultation, taking into account police requirements. Under the auspices of the Crisis Centre, police areas were requested to prepare an operational risk analysis on all points to be monitored, taking into account the level of threat, environmental characteristics and all complementary security measures that have been in place since 2015. Security measures shall be reviewed at least monthly by the Crisis Centre on the basis of the threat analysis prepared by the OCAM. During the police reform, an important part of the federal police capacity was transferred to the local police. Each police area still receives a very substantial contribution annually in the form of a federal allowance. This allowance covers not only the corresponding staff costs, but also the execution by the police area of specific tasks, such as the execution of security orders. Within the current legal framework, subsidising the Antwerp police zone would set a precedent and undermine the current police model. On the subject of correspondence with the police zone of Antwerp, we do have an outstanding debate on solidarity. I had an open conversation with representatives of the Jewish community on 23 August. We agreed to see each other again to see how security is currently proceeding. The conversation will take place this month. I cannot, of course, anticipate the outcome of the consultation, but I am always at my disposal to answer additional questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u83	Madam Minister, I continue to regret that the federal government has not been able to respond to the Jewish community's demand to ensure the deployment of either the federal police or a budget. You are talking about creating a precedent if the police area of Antwerp were to be further subsidised. Well, you can. We can set a precedent for a community below level 3 of terror. A precedent is not created lightly, but it is possible to do so in the case of heavyweights. The attack on the Jewish Museum in Brussels was not so long ago. So, yes, one can set a precedent here. Fantastic and nice would be to make a distinction here. The fight against terror we are all engaged in. That is not a purely regional or local issue. We could show at federal level that we are doing something about this. Yesterday, the European Commission announced a plan to combat anti-Semitism at European level. One of the crucial elements there was the release of a budget for the security of sites that may pose a threat. The OCAD has said that this is the case for the Jewish communities, not only in Antwerp but also in Brussels. That is why I think it is very important that we continue to pay due attention to this phenomenon. There were attacks in our neighbouring countries. I asked another question about that. In Germany we were able to avoid an attack at the very close. In France, there is a high level of preparedness. The police here also found explosives in people's homes. Those are all worrying things. I hope that if you meet the Jewish community later this month, you will be able to answer their questions positively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u84	Mr President, I thank the Minister for her answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u85	Some time ago, in response to a written question, I received some figures on the non-compliance with the temporary home ban. In 2020 no less than 24 infringements were detected in the province of Antwerp, in Limburg there were 21. If I add the figures of the parquets, it is not surprising that in those provinces the figures are the highest: the parquet of Limburg accounts for 60% of the files of temporary house ban and the parquet of Antwerp for 30%, or 90% of all judgments of temporary house ban. In the province of Antwerp there are more infringements of the temporary house ban than in Limburg. Can you give me an explanation for that? I asked the Minister of Justice a similar question. You can also shed some light on this. Since Limburg and Antwerp are the frontrunners in the imposition of temporary house bans, do you notice any effect on the reports of and possible convictions for intra-family violence against the regions where temporary home bans are pronounced much less commonly? Why is the measure applied so little in other regions? Finally, there are figures on non-compliance with a house ban. What happens if an unsub violates the restraining order? What measures will the police take in that case?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u86	Mrs Jiroflée, it is impossible for the federal police to explain the figures based on the information in the ANG. More extensive studies of the evaluation of the measures are therefore required. These include scientific insights, case management, police action and prosecution policy in the various judicial districts, data that cannot be derived directly and immediately from the ANG. This is necessary in order to provide you with an adequate response to your questions and to guide policy. All actors as links to the safety chain should be involved. External partners should also play a part in this. As regards your question about the reasons why the measure is being applied less in some regions, and the consequences of breaches of the ban, I must refer to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u87	Madam Minister, my final question is indeed for the Minister of Justice. You say that further research is necessary in order to provide an adequate response, but the main reason is, of course, to improve policy. I therefore hope that you will give the order for that thorough investigation. In any case, I will ask you in the near future whether anything from the investigation you seem to announce has already emerged.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u88	Question No 55020380C by Mrs Song is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u89	Mr President, I have another question in 49. Would the minister agree that I ask my two questions now?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u90	No, ask your first question only!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u91	All right! Minister, last July, the Public Health FPS informed the local authorities of suspicious actions regarding the presence of so-called "medical" groups during events and demonstrations. Among other things, there is the issue of "Street Medic Of Belgium". These teams have very similar outfits to emergency medical assistance teams. However, the Public Health FPS does not recognize its interventions in any way. Minister, could you tell me what communications have been exchanged between the Public Health FPS and the Domestic FPS on this subject? Is the regulation of the practice of nursing and health professions respected in the course of the actions of these teams? Has a precise analysis of these activities with the population been carried out with the support of the police and, if so, by what services? What checks on these teams have been carried out by the police in recent months that explain the need for such communication? Is a CCU-targeted vigilance on the Internet and social networks for these activities? Had any arrests had to be made or did any persons have to be heard by the federal police or local police services?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u92	There was no contact between the Public Health FPS and the Internal FPS on this subject. An alert was probably given at the local level by the FPS Committee on Urgent Medical Aid Public Health. In this regard, I invite you to address my colleague in charge of public health. It was found that the group is not recognized by the Public Health FPS. No violations have been reported to date. The fact that the uniform is similar to that of recognized services could potentially constitute an offence and give rise to a complaint. The analysis of the activities of this NSO is not part of the police's task unless a complaint has been filed. In this case, the resulting police investigation would fall within the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice. We are not aware of any physical checks carried out by the police against members of Street Medic Of Belgium in connection with administrative police missions. The Street Medic Of Belgium group is a legally constituted ASBL whose mission is to organize and provide first aid for sports events or not. These emergency posts are mandatory in the organization of certain events. Following an internet consultation, it appears that another group called Street Medic reported having been present at the Cambre Wood Shows. This grouping is distinct from the Street Medic Of Belgium grouping. Street Medic was born in the United States in the 1960s. The representatives of this movement are essentially classified to the far left. Some work in the medical sector in parallel with their political commitments. But most of them focus on self-training and knowledge-sharing. Trainings to disseminate this practice are regularly held during social movements. Street Medics usually choose not to be too visible, especially in order to avoid police repression, and not to participate in the professionalization of first aid by distinguishing themselves from other demonstrators. DGSOC, a federal police department responsible for domain name blockages, has never received a request to block the sites concerned. These sites do not contain or broadcast hate messages and therefore do not take into account a reference at the platform level for voluntary withdrawal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u93	Madam Minister, thank you for the answers you provided to me and the few clarifications you gave me. I will therefore question the Ministers of Health and Justice on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u94	Since July 2019, it is legally possible to have the bourgeois state officially adapted from 'the truly divorced' or 'widower/widower' to 'unmarried' after a divorce. For example, it is not necessary to be confronted with a broken marriage when one receives an official document from the government. The general rule is that the civil status is no longer mentioned on documents. However, the exceptions will be determined in a royal decree. This implementing act, which must establish a list of exceptions, has apparently not been adopted two years after the entry into force of the law. A question from Mr Clarinval to former Minister of the Interior De Crem showed that the implementation of the law poses problems. I quote your predecessor's answer: "The implementation of the law of 2 May 2019 poses effective problems. Implementation seemed to be contrary to the requirements of the European General Data Protection Regulation or GDPR, in particular the principle of minimum data processing. Moreover, the law of May 2019 allows citizens to replace the words 'out of the real divorce' or 'widower/widower' with the word 'unmarried'. The King must determine the modalities for that request. In the light of the GDPR and the principle of minimum data processing, an entry that is not strictly necessary should be omitted. This paragraph therefore seems irrelevant. I have asked for legal advice on this matter." The last sentence is important here. Have you been able to look into the legal advice that your predecessor has requested? Are there any implementation problems? What is the status of this file? Will there be a list of documents for which the communication of a citizen's civil status is necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u95	Mrs Jiroflée, my administration has carried out an analysis of the current legislation and concluded that the current law is not feasible. I will therefore shortly be preparing a draft law which will be able to meet the legislator's objective. After all, it is not possible to draw up a list of certificates because there are almost no standardised certificates. A certificate is actually no more than an extract from the population register and can contain all the information requested by the citizen. There are some models of certificates, such as a certificate of family composition, but these are not laid down by law. The certificate may therefore vary from municipality to municipality. Moreover, the citizen may request that a certificate be drawn up according to his needs. The draft law in preparation aims to reverse the mechanism of the law. In the future, the civil status should no longer be mentioned, unless it is a certificate for which it has been required by law or at the explicit request of the citizen himself. If the civil status were to be mentioned, it would be the civil status mentioned in the population register. Only an amendment to the Civil Code can ensure that the civil status is rewritten. The certificates of the population register must not deviate from the data contained in the register resulting from an act of civil status.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u96	Mr President, Minister, it is painful for the people who were waiting for it. Apparently, there are some of them, which is evident from the questions I'm getting. People who really have a problem with this are really waiting for it. That's really annoying. I note, however, that you want to remedy the problem. Can you give me a timing or can I give people a probable timing for discussing the intended bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u97	Mrs Jiroflée, that is too early at the moment. However, you can count on us to work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u98	Madam Secretary, that's good. I'll get back to you later. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u99	Mr President, Minister, at the committee meeting of 15 September last, Minister Vandenbroucke insisted that more and more powers should go back to the Länder. The vaccination, the coronapas and the tests are all preventive actions that fall within the competence of the Länder. However, as long as the federal phase runs, the responsibilities and powers are not very clearly aligned. Madam Minister, when will the federal phase end and when will the Länder get their full powers back?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u100	Mr President, Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u101	Mrs Sneppe, the Consultation Committee of 20 August started the process to prepare thoroughly for the possible abolition of the federal phase and the modalities of the post-federal phase. The federal phase will be lifted when policy coordination at federal level of the emergency is no longer required. In taking that decision, account will be taken not only of quantitative indicators in the field of public health but also of a sufficient level of preparation as regards the necessary follow-up measures and cooperation during the post-federal phase. As regards the division of powers between the Federal Government and the Länder, the Law Department of the Council of State has repeatedly pointed out that each government is responsible for combating a public health crisis within the limits of its own substantive powers. There is therefore no question of giving back powers. Consequently, the power of the federal government to ensure policy coordination of an emergency situation in the context of the federal phase does not in any way mean that the Federal State can take over the powers of the Communities and the Regions, nor that it can impose obligations on the Communities and the Regions on the way in which they exercise their own powers. The exercise of federal coordination powers is confined to the coordination of the activities of the various authorities in charge of crisis management. In accordance with these principles, there has been continuous consultation between the federal government and the Länder since the beginning of the federal phase, in particular within the Consultation Committee. In this way, the various authorities of the country were able to take the necessary measures to combat the epidemic on the basis of their respective competences, in a coordinated and constructive manner. Mr De Smet, the Act of 14 August on administrative police measures in an epidemic emergency was to enter into force no later than the 31st working day from the 1st working day following publication in the Belgian Monitor, in accordance with Article 16 thereof. The deadline for the entry into force of this Act was 4 October 2021, not 24 September 2021. The King, however, had the opportunity to advance the date of entry into force by a deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers. Following the enactment of the Act, the partners agreed on the need to analyse the evolution of the pandemic figures during the summer and the school year and, if necessary, to have the necessary time to prepare the new regulatory framework if the conditions for the epidemic emergency, as defined in the Act, were to be met. The Government has therefore asked the competent authorities for an analysis of the health situation with a view to determining whether the conditions of the epidemic emergency, listed in Article 2, 3° of the Act, are met. As noted at the last Consultation Committee, the opinions of the RAG of September 1, 2021 and the Office of the Commissioner of the Covid-19 of September 14, 2021 found that these conditions were not met in the light of the positive developments in the management of the pandemic in our country. It was therefore not necessary to advance the date of entry into force of this Act. Subsequent opinions of the RAG of 29 September and of the Office of the Covid-19 of 1 October have reaffirmed that the conditions for declaring an epidemic emergency, in accordance with the Pandemic Law, are currently not met cumulatively and that the Pandemic Law cannot therefore be applied. It goes without saying that health developments and the question of whether or not to declare an epidemic emergency are regularly reassessed. To answer your second question, the mechanisms provided for in the Pandemic Act will apply if the conditions for an epidemic emergency are met and it is therefore declared. Apart from an epidemic emergency, the usual mechanisms for Parliament's control of the Executive are of course still in place. Finally, to answer your last question, the Consultation Committee of 17 September invited the ministers and their departments to take stock by the end of October of all the provisions that will have to continue to be insured after the repeal of the federal phase. The measures to be maintained or adapted in the future will be adopted by the different entities, each in their areas of competence. If the conditions for an epidemic emergency are to be met in the future and new police measures are needed at the federal level, they will be adopted in accordance with the framework of the Pandemic Act. Mrs Ingels, the measures currently in force to prevent the further spread of the coronavirus have, as always, been decided by the Consultative Committee. The previous Consultation Committee of 17 September decided at that time, on the basis of an in-depth analysis of the health situation, that certain facilitations could be implemented and that other measures still had to be taken. Whether such measures should be renewed, adapted or lifted will be evaluated at the next Consultation Committee on the basis of the epidemiological situation at that time. As confirmed by the Legislative Section of the Council of State in its opinion of 23 June, even after the entry into force of the pandemic law, in certain cases the civil protection and civil security laws may still be invoked, in particular where the conditions are not met to address an epidemic emergency within the meaning of the pandemic law. Of course, these measures must always be proportionate, appropriate and necessary. As you know, the need for national policy coordination is one of the cumulative conditions for announcing an epidemic. For this reason, the pandemic law stipulates that, as soon as the epidemic emergency was declared, the federal phase should also be declared if that had not yet happened. In other words, it is perfectly possible to declare or maintain a federal phase without an epidemic at that time. As stated earlier in my reply, the end of the federal phase is currently being thoroughly prepared. This has been discussed at the various Consultative Committees held since August. The phasing-out of the federal phase and the transition to a new phase of risk management are prepared both administratively and legally so that the transition to a more local management of the health situation can take place in a successful and smooth way. This will be further discussed in the Consultative Committee to be held during this month.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u102	Mr President, Minister, I have a few reservations. You're still talking about an emergency, but it's long gone. Of course, proper preparation is needed. However, in several countries we see that the restrictions on freedom are all taking place and normal life is re-established. I wonder when that will be the case with us. If we listen to experts other than just the home virologists, we are told that we will have to learn to live with the COVID-19 virus as we learn to live with various other viruses, such as the flu virus. The epidemic situation is completely different than it was a year ago. Maybe we should let go of the fear created to return to normal life. As far as powers are concerned, you say that there have been no excesses of powers. I might be able to join you in that. However, the division of powers was not entirely clear. Even the politicians around the consultation table did not always know who was responsible, let alone that this was clear to the ordinary people. I think the time is right to leave the federal phase and place the responsibilities more with the federated entities so that a policy can be tailored.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u103	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I take it from this, since the law came into force on October 4, that if epidemic aggravation still had to be there, the answer will now be through the application of the Pandemic Law, and thus through the possible activation of an emergency phase. Thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u104	Madam Minister, I understand that there must be a transitional period, but it does not make any sense. I am glad that at the moment it seems that we will not immediately have to declare the epidemiological emergency, I do not misunderstand, but something is not right. If there is no need to declare the emergency, it is not really normal that we are still in the federal phase, with multidisciplinary crisis management. Would it not be an option to make the management of this health crisis monodisciplinary again, under the responsibility of the Public Health Office for the curative section and the Länder for the preventive section? With possible additional control of mayors on their territory, I can understand that. However, I do not see why all the disciplines still need to be around the table in this crisis. It's a strange fact. The pandemic law is finally there, even though it is a bit strange, but it is now in early October and somewhere it is very strange and not at all logical what is happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u105	Madam Secretary, working by appointment with the police forces was one of the corona measures that may need to be phased out now. This method may have advantages in some areas, but in some police areas it was almost exclusively used in corona period, except, of course, for urgent interventions. For example, a few stories came to my attention that victims who were actually in immediate danger, for example in the case of intra-family violence, I know of a woman who was afraid of her husband, were instructed to make an appointment to report or file a complaint the following week. Such facts are of course of a totally different order than complaints because, for example, a tree near the neighbour is too close to the lot border. How many and which zones only work by appointment? How is the extension of the scope of the declaration evaluated, as it was done during Corona? Does that remain an option after corona? How long will you allow the measures to drag on? Maybe it's time to reverse some things here and there, depending on the service.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u106	Colleague, it is difficult for me to give an overview of the number of areas that offer to work with an appointment, because each police area is autonomously competent to offer the service under the supervision of the police college or the mayor. However, I would like to stress that this is a service and that it is never an obligation for the victim or the reporter of the crime. In addition, urgent assistance can always be requested through the call number 101 and each police area must organise a number of police posts which provide a physical reception 24/7, in accordance with the legal instructions for the basic task. In some police areas, this will be possible in any office 24/7, while other areas may be more centralised or per district. Most police areas will provide a physical welcome in most of the posts during the day. Each police area can and will make its own analysis of which combination of physical reception point and appointments can best serve the citizen. Moreover, many zones have introduced this possibility to better target victims or reporters to specialised services, such as youth and family police services or victim assistance. For many victims, this service can lower the threshold, because a classic reception post can sometimes be intimidating or terrifying. Scientific literature also indicates that this might counteract secondary victimisation. In fact, the offer of agreements is separate from the online declaration option. This online declaration option was the first reason behind the creation of the first digital police point in 2006 in order to register crimes that often cannot be prosecuted in order to get a better picture of the phenomena in question or because the citizen needed proof of declaration. At that time, the College of Attorneys-General had indicated that all offences eligible for simplified minutes could be eligible for an online declaration. In fact, bicycle and moped thefts were mainly indicated by this road, and to a lesser extent also certain damage and graffiti. Plans have been on the table for a long time to broaden the online declaration option to lower the threshold for declaration. Citizens could have several reasons not to report it in a police station, if only because of lack of time. The covid situation has accelerated that movement or taken it in speed. The original plans were to draw up a clear list of crimes which would be worked out one by one for the best possible declaration, so that citizens' police would get the most important information and so that security could be built in by type of crime so that any urgent actions could be carried out on a temporary basis. Covid reversed this and forced the police to find a quick solution to safeguard the security of citizens and policemen by avoiding the necessary contacts. However, at no time during the covid period has a citizen been unable to make a physical declaration. The physical reception is, in principle, the basic form of reception which is complemented by those other contacts and means of declaration. In application of the Police Victims Directive, reception staff are asked to pay particular attention to those who express a particular demand for help and protection. If a person applied physically during covid, the same steps as outside the covid times were taken, but of course with the necessary personal protection measures for both the principal and the police officer. In the meantime, further work is being carried out on developing the permanent form of Police-on-web, with the current list of crimes that can be identified in the covid window being structurally embedded in Police-on-web. The offences in question are examined one by one by the Integrated Police Working Group. So there will be a web form for each type of crime. The College of Attorneys-General also indicated when launching the covid counter that the police areas should handle the declarations within 72 hours at the latest. In practice, however, it appears that the areas can deal with these declarations much more quickly. For the new crimes, we are not only trying to increase the ease of use of the principal, but first of all to reduce the dark number. That is why hate crimes will also be listed from 2022, so that we can get a better view of this phenomenon. The first priority, therefore, is to provide the list of crimes which could now be identified through the covid counter, so that this temporary point of contact, as you rightly pointed out, can be eliminated, while maintaining this additional service for the citizen and providing a better view of the phenomena.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u107	Madam Minister, as long as we are talking about an additional service, I fully agree that it could help to reduce the dark number here and there. I'm sure it is, but it's up to you to make sure the police zones don't let it go too far. The stories that reach me are really about the abuse of the fact that the covid crisis mainly caused people to work by appointment and sent back home someone who indicated that she was in immense danger. I believe that you should stay awake and above all ensure that the distance between the citizen and the police does not continue after this period. This will in any case be prosecuted, or hopefully not, if everything is resolved and if everything is completed again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u108	Mr Demon has given his question No. Okay, let's postpone 55020613C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u109	Madam Minister, it was a noble goal of ex-Minister of the Interior Jambon to set up a security force, the DAB, at the time to ease the workload on our police forces, it is a corps that would deal with, among other things, the surveillance of courthouses, embassies, nuclear power stations, airports and railway stations. Last year, Minister of the Interior De Crem replied to a written question about the implementation of the security force, that at least 450 security officers were still to be found, 13 Commissioners, 50 Chief Inspectors and 14 administrative staff. We're one year later now. Meanwhile, the soldiers have been taken off the streets and we have been told that soldiers would make a massive or certainly hundreds of transfers to the DAB. Last year it turned out that only 37 soldiers were working at the DAB. An additional problem has been identified. From West Flanders, employees of the Justice Security Corps have made the switch, but they have minimal police authority. The police have sent a request to the West Flemish police school asking if these staff members can follow some training courses to increase their knowledge. Madam Secretary, you are probably familiar with the problematic situation in West Flanders. Are you going to respond to the police's request to provide more training opportunities? What is the current status of the staff framework at the SAB? In the meantime, how many soldiers have actually made the switch? Finally, how will you deal with the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u110	Colleague, let me first outline to you the staff of DAB. Today, DAB already employs 1,269 people, 41 of whom are military. 331 staff are therefore still to be recruited in order to reach the target of 1,600. The Staff Regulations provide that a police inspector and a police chief inspector are to be admitted to the selection for transition to the middle and officer framework, respectively, if they have at least 6 years of framework authority. The security coordinators do not meet this condition, because they are not middle managers but rather a very specific and deafening framework, in particular that of police security coordinators. From a purely hierarchical point of view, this framework is situated between the middle framework and the basic framework. The powers of police security coordinators are therefore limited. The provisions on the powers of police security officers and assistants, as set out in the law on the police function, shall also apply to security coordinators. There was no specific internal promotion for the people of this sui generis framework and no internal access was provided for training which could give them the general police powers of police officers. There is, of course, no obstacle to applying for a full-time post by external means.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u111	Madam Minister, I am sorry that no more elegant solution has been found. If the only solution is to apply externally, I find that regrettable and I find it dangerous. Soon the great terrorist process will start, and it is important that, at such a time, in times of terror, the crucial places in our country can be adequately secured. In addition, it removes some workload from the police, giving them breathing space to perform other police duties. I think we should invest in training and make the statute more attractive in order to secure the necessary recruitment of the 1,600 security agents in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u112	Question No 55020643C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u113	Ms Song, Article 4, § 10 of the Royal Decree of 3 July 2018 including various measures relating to the members of the operational staff of the Civil Protection provides that a staff member who has been selected may waive his selection before 1 January 2019. In that case, the candidate shall be replaced by the candidate following the classification referred to in paragraph 7. As soon as he has renounced his selection, his appointment as an ex officio member of Civil Protection, pursuant to Article 5 of the same Decree, is no longer possible. If some former Civil Protection officers, who did not wish to take part in the examination organised in 2018 or who participated in it but who did not take part in the new civil protection, wish to return to this service, I invite them to participate in a future recruitment organised in accordance with Book IV of the Royal Decree of 29 June 2018. Some former officers have followed this procedure and one of them has recently been invited into service. Subject to the success of the medical examination, he will soon join his former colleagues. The judgment of the Council of State to which you refer does not rule on the appropriateness of the staff as set out in the Royal Decree of 3 July 2018 including various measures relating to staff members. The Council of State has annulled the provision on the maximum number of jobs available under the Civil Protection Reform because of insufficient motivation. It follows from this judgment of annulment that all the successful candidates should have had the opportunity to choose a job in the new Civil Protection. The Council of State finds that a person who has given up employment, when he has been told that he is not classified in a useful order, has not validly renounced that employment. This person did not make his choice knowingly, because he thought that he could not be saporous as long as he was not in order. This person must therefore be called upon to make a valid choice, since his choice of time is deemed invalid by the Council of State. The judgment of the Council of State does not call into question the situation of those who have decided not to submit the examination or who have failed the examination or have given up an informed job validly. In other words, the Council of State does not consider that one has the right to change one's mind, but only that everyone can make an informed choice. Those who did not have this opportunity at the end of 2018 received it following the annulment decision of the Council of State. A total of four people were involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u114	I thank the Minister for her answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u115	Dear Madam Secretary, The German police managed to prevent a terrorist attack on a synagogue during Yom Kippur in the city of Hagen. In 2019, during Yom Kippur in the German city of Halle, a shooting took place at a synagogue, with two deaths and several injuries. The unsub confessed afterwards that he was acting out of anti-Semitic motives. In France, the Interior Minister Gérald Darmanin earlier this month, because of the very high level of terror threats against Jewish institutions, had advised all prefects to take measures to strengthen security during the month of September in which several Jewish holidays fall. De Franse minister had het volgens AFP over "the very high level of the terrorist threat".
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u116	On 8 September this year, the attaché of the internal security service of the French Embassy in Brussels informed the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police of the instructions of the French Minister of the Interior to the prefects, the French police forces and the gendarmerie nationale. The general threat level in Belgium has recently remained the same, namely level 2, and is defined by the OCAD, which autonomously provides for the analysis of the threat level. The OCAD permanently monitors the threat to Jewish interests in our country. If necessary, this may lead to an adjustment of the level of threat to Jewish interests, with the corresponding communication to the competent policy makers. On 19 August this year, at the request of the Antwerp police zone, the OCAD carried out a threat analysis for the Jewish celebration period from 28 August to 29 September. The OCAD has estimated the threat level for that period and for all Jewish interests for the whole country at level 3. On 10 September, the OCAD provided a French translation of its assessment of 19 August, maintaining the level. The last evaluation of the OCAD on Israeli and Jewish interests in our country on 12 May already identified a threat level 3. So that level has been maintained for the Jewish holiday period. DJSOC/Terro has been in contact with German colleagues about the foiled attack in Germany. There is no evidence that such an incident would occur at a Belgian synagogue, nor is there any information from Germany that would indicate a threat from there to Belgium. In 2020, the government decided to end Operation Vigilant Guardian this year as of 1 September, leaving the military out of the street. The protection of the population, in this case the Jewish community, is a task that belongs to the tasks of the primary police care of the local police. The local police were informed in good time that they would have to take over all the assignments for which they could count on the assistance of the Defense Department. Meanwhile, the police had the opportunity to adapt to the new reality and invested in new techniques, equipment and armament. However, ending a military operation does not mean ending the protective measures. They are taken over by the police, guaranteeing the same level of protection. The National Crisis Centre provides for various measures for the Jewish community, such as the submission of a threat analysis to the OCAD at special events. Moreover, the fight against terrorism is not limited to the protection measures implemented by the local police. It is the result of a permanent effort and integrated cooperation between different partners in the security chain, including local and federal police, the police, the intelligence services, the OCAD, but certainly also the federated entities for the preventive section, as recently confirmed in the Strategic Note extremism and terrorism. That strategic note explicitly provides for the exchange of information between all relevant actors and an active follow-up of certain persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u117	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I hear that there was perfect contact from Paris to clarify that there was also an increased level of terrorist threat in France. I still find it reckless that this government does not want to provide additional federal support for a community that lives below terrorist level 3. That level of terror, according to the OCAD, means that an attack is possible and likely. For the Antwerp police, it's very difficult to do that security assignment on her own. If the Antwerp police do so, it will be at the expense of the other police duties. The fight against terror must be fought at every level, both at federal and local level. I would therefore like to know who will see to it in the future. You say that the same level of security as under the guard is guaranteed by soldiers. However, I can tell you that this is not the case. There are far less visible patrols. Last weekend, I witnessed an incident in a synagogue myself. A person who is not part of the Jewish community walked into a synagogue with a Palestinian arafat scarf. It was innocent, because the man stated he's a refugee from South America and he wanted to come and meditate. Well, that wouldn't have happened at the time of the security mission by soldiers, because that man wouldn't have gotten in. It's not supposed to point the finger at someone by saying that there should have been local or federal police officers, but it's a fact that that man has entered the synagogue. I live in that neighborhood. Even when I drop my children off at the school, I notice much less visible safety. Perhaps there is invisible security, perhaps the security services do their job, but with the whole Jewish community I notice a remarkable difference in visual security. The security of the community is certainly affected by that. Perhaps you could ask your colleagues at local level to remedy that. The Jewish festivals have been over since last weekend and since then the presence is noticeably less strong. I hope that you and the local or federal police will be able to provide additional resources, so that we can do something about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u118	I agree with everything Mr Freilich has said. I fear that my questions have fallen through the loopholes, because I have not received an answer to them. I'll re-apply them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u119	Question No 55020875C by Mrs Platteau will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u120	Minister, as we know, the issue of intra-European cooperation between national police is essential in the fight against crime. Various forms of crime and organized networks often disregard borders. The border areas are thus territories which, because of their geographical location, favour the development of certain forms of regional, national and international crime, inter alia, related to the offences of violation of residence, theft in homes and cars, theft of cars and illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. On 17 July, the House of Representatives adopted a resolution which I had with several colleagues and which aims at a structural improvement in police cooperation between our country and France. Following the adoption of this text by the House, what steps do you intend to take with regard to the various requests made to the government? More generally, are different initiatives on the agenda to improve structurally this cooperation between the Belgian police and that of our neighbouring countries, and more generally at European level, particularly in the flow of information?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u121	My colleague, the government has taken note of the requests made in the resolution adopted by the House of Representatives on 17 July last concerning cross-border police cooperation between France and Belgium. I intend to invest without delay in the implementation of various measures aimed at the structural improvement sought, in partnership with the police services and all the bodies concerned. Thus, approaches are already being considered at several levels. The Chamber's resolution is, as you know, based on the recommendations made by Committee P, following the monitoring investigation into cross-border cooperation between Belgium and France for police areas in the provinces of Hainaut and West Flanders, which it conducted in 2018. However, a detailed plan of action to respond to these recommendations and to improve cooperation was drawn up at my request, in close consultation between the federal police and the local police. This action plan, which was approved by the Integrated Police Coordination Committee on 18 May this year, describes the concrete actions that the Belgian police will take until 2022 to implement these recommendations in various areas. To answer your second question, yes, initiatives to improve cooperation in a structural way are well implemented. As far as Luxembourg and the Netherlands are concerned, I refer in this connection to the efforts that have been successfully made by the police services of the Internal SPF with a view to concluding a new agreement on police cooperation, known as the Benelux Agreement, with Luxembourg and the Netherlands. As regards Germany, bilateral negotiations have been under way in recent years with a view to revising the Belgo-German agreement on cooperation between police and customs authorities in the border regions of 27 March 2000. The aim is also to strengthen and extend cooperation with our various neighbouring countries. Furthermore, at European level, this time the European Commission has announced that it will finalize its legislative proposal to improve international police cooperation within the European Union, called the EU Police Cooperation Code. Belgium clearly and strongly supports ambitious aspirations to further facilitate the work of police officers in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u122	Madam Minister, thank you for the quality of your response and for the initiatives and steps already taken to respond to the recommendations contained in the resolution. I also thank you for the structural improvements that have already been decided upon and implemented on the ground. As a member of the Benelux Parliament, I am obviously pleased with everything that has already been drawn up and implemented with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Netherlands. This is a laboratory that can serve as an example for Europe. You take back the initiatives encountered with Germany. Madam Minister, on behalf of all the police areas which are on a common border with France, I insist that you should be able to pursue and, above all, try to put into practice, as soon as possible, the various steps which will make it possible to improve further the information and cooperation between our Belgian and French police services. As you know, this case is of particular interest to me. I will not fail to follow him very carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u123	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Langenhove's 55020894C was postponed. Mrs De Wit is not present for her question No. 55020961C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u124	Mr President, Minister, I have already questioned you a number of times about the Bob Campaign. I'm doing the same thing today. Just before the summer, at the start of the European Championship football, the summer bob campaign started. The federal police and VIAS have already communicated the results. 191.397 drivers were reported to have been checked, of which 6,279 were found to be positive. Once again, the number of police controls has remained very limited, although there is an increase by summer 2020. However, the goal once set by federal road police of 420,000 checks per year and the ambition to control one in three drivers are far away. This is understandable because of the additional health measures that have also had to be taken over the last few months by COVID-19 and the additional tasks that the road police have been assigned to the checks on the corona measures, as you have already mentioned to me in an earlier reply. However, it is still necessary to consider how we can reconnect with the ambition, which is crucial in order to drastically reduce the number of road accidents in our country. The figures for the last few months do not give any indication of such a reduction in the number of accidents. The opposite is true. That is why I have a number of questions. How do you evaluate the summer bob campaign of 2021? How many checks were carried out by the federal road police and how many by the local police? What lessons do you take for the winterbob campaign of 2021? Will the federal road police play a greater role during the winter months? How has the number of alcohol controls by federal road police evolved over the past five years? How will you ensure that, in the short term, we can reconnect with the process of further alcohol controls? Not all local alcohol controls are still registered. What effort will you make for this? The Permanent Commission of Local Police (VCLP) is a requesting party for a simplified registration, whereby the data can be automatically exported from the breath test and breath analyzers. Do you see that as a solution? If so, what will you do? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u125	Mr President, Mrs Buyst, first of all, it should be noted that the previously stated objective of having 420,000 drivers checked by the federal road police for driving under the influence of alcohol on an annual basis applies to optimum manpower and technology resources, which is not currently the case. The current target is 240,000 controls. If one lesson can be learned, it is that targeted control actions to steer under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs remain a necessity. It would be expected that the measures still in force to reduce the spread of the covid virus would have had a positive impact on driving under the influence. However, this is not true from the results, since they are very similar to the results of previous years. The evolution of the pandemic calls for the implementation of controls in the forthcoming year-end campaign to be more closely aligned with those we knew before the outbreak of the pandemic. Of course, federal road police conduct alcohol checks all year round. That is a priority and it is also anchored in the day-to-day operation. During certain periods of time or campaigns, such as the Bob campaign, federal road police use a lot of extra resources to control drivers. Also during the Mobility Week or actions organised from the European level, the federal road police deploy additional staff for road safety. Apart from the exceptional corona year 2020, between 2016 and 2019 the federal road police checked an average of 243,297 drivers per year for driving under the influence. Both local and federal police will continue their efforts to improve road safety with targeted control actions in order to achieve the federal government's objective of checking one out of three drivers per year. These controls are also in line with a number of priorities such as speed, use of a mobile phone and the non-use or misuse of the safety equipment. The various competent authorities also regularly organise awareness campaigns on the subject with the support of various road safety experts. In addition, in order to deal more efficiently with traffic infringements, the aim is to automate the processing of fines. We will look further at the VCLP's question for a one-time view.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u126	Madam Minister, thank you for your clear and comprehensive answer. Increasing the chance of getting caught is an important key to tackling the problem of driving under the influence. We have to do everything we can to do that. COVID-19 indeed makes everything more difficult and complex. Let us hope that the pandemic is under control so that we can reach normal numbers again during the winterbob campaign. You say the normal number is 240,000, but the federal government agreement states that we want to push up the odds. It is therefore a good thing to automate and look at the VCLP's question. At the moment, the perception is that there is far too little chance of being caught and some people in our country continue to drive under the influence. I would like to strengthen my demand for zero tolerance, because today the newspaper says that the European Parliament also requires zero tolerance for alcohol and drugs in traffic, as they are still a factor in one in four road accidents. We also need to get back to work on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u127	Question No 5020998C by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u128	Mr. President, Madam Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u129	Mr Cogolati, a few days ago I provided you with a complete and detailed written answer about the risk of flooding in Tihange (see your written question no. 755). You received the answer on October 4. As also mentioned in this written response, the natural risks of flooding or torrential rains are taken into account in the safety of the Tihange nuclear power plant. If you would like more details on these files, I strongly recommend that you consult the various nuclear test stress reports that are available on the AFCN website.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u130	Mr President, Madam Minister, I must say that I am a little surprised by your answer. Indeed, this summer, on July 14 and 15, I filed an urgent written but very brief question. I did receive your reply on October 4. The three oral questions that have been tabled are really much more detailed and raise very important questions, which are not from me, but rather from the residents of the Tihange nuclear power plant. They are asking themselves quite legitimate questions. The answers cannot be found in stress tests. Believe me, I've analyzed them from end to end! I know almost every stress test by heart since 2011. There's really nothing to worry about. I am a little surprised to find myself in front of you after three oral questions. I don't know what to do, drop them off again or write an email to the firm. I repeat, the questions are important. An example: "What is the reference flood today?" It is known that, during its construction, the Tihange nuclear power plant could withstand a flood of up to 2,200m3 per second. It is precisely the flow that was reached during the floods of 15 July in the Meuse at Tihange. I think it is entirely legitimate to ask what is today the reference flood in the regulations, in the authorisations given to the Tihange nuclear power plant. That's the origin of the questions! I very much hope that we can find a way to answer that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u131	In the absence of Mr Senesael, his question No. 55021016C becomes moot. Question No 55021042C by Mrs Eva Platteau and No 55021282C by Mrs Julie Chanson have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u132	My Office, my colleague, is currently studying the various options in this procedure before the Council of State. The following criteria have been taken into account in the calculation of this staffing. First, part of the allocation is distributed across all police areas in proportion to the share of each police area in the base allocation. A financial incentive was granted to police areas that had completed a regulatoryly finalized and operational merger. A party is assigned to the police areas that have hosted, in their territory, after the reform of the police, prisons or closed detention centres for minors, in order to enable them to cope with the additional workload associated with them. A part is also allocated to the police areas of the Brussels-Capital Region to compensate for the increase in negotiated public space management missions, following the increase in international events in the capital. In addition, as part of the fight against cross-border crime and, in particular, to combat drug trafficking, a grant is granted to police areas with ports on their territory and which have developed a specific action plan in this context. Finally, part of the allocation is used to correct material errors in the payment of the amounts from the Road Safety Fund and the subsidy in the context of the pre-pension non-activity for which an objective entitlement exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u133	Mr President, Madam Minister, that is exactly the answer I needed to avoid joining the procedure before the Council of State. Thank you. Things have the merit of being clear. There will therefore no longer be any protest on the part of the zone managers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic597x.u134	There are no more questioners. I propose that the work be completed today. I thank all those present and I also thank the Minister for her comprehensive answers.
