ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u2	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u3	Colleagues, there are dates that remain engraved in our memory. March 22, 2016 is undeniably one of them. It was with horror and dismay that we learned that day that barbaric terrorism had hit our country after having hit our French neighbours hard. Suddenly, everything that occupied us with so much strength and conviction seemed somewhat secondary to us in the light of the news that was revealing itself to us. We all remember what we were doing when the violent explosions devastated Zaventem Airport and Maelbeek Metro Station. We still remember the horror and unbelief felt at that time. Because of the scale of the attacks, the targets against which they were directed, and the way they were carried out, our country was plunged brutally into a climate of unseen terror. On that day, the terrorists were targeting tolerance, justice, the right to diversity and freedom of expression, fundamental values of democracy. I was deeply touched by the sense of duty and the courage shown by the aid workers, the policemen, the medical staff and even ordinary passers-by when they were confronted with this horrible, pointless and blind terrorism. Colleagues, on this fifth anniversary of the attacks of March 22, 2016, the scars are still very deep and if they can fade over time, they will never disappear. Terrorism remains a global challenge, as the recent attacks in Paris, Nice and Vienna have reminded us. It is our duty to do everything in our power to live in a safer world where living together is the norm. Every broken life is a tragedy. Words are absolutely inadequate when so many people lose their lives or are seriously injured. My thoughts go out to all the families and friends of the victims of the attacks. My thoughts also go out to the wounded, who carry the trauma in body and mind, and to all who were confronted from far or near by with those attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u4	Madam President, I can only agree with the words just spoken and with what they wake up in each of us: a mixture of emotions, sorrow, emptiness and reckless flight. On Monday, at the official ceremony to honour the victims of terrorist acts that took place as part of the commemorations of March 22, 2016, the words of the writer Irving Washington were quoted: "There is a sacredness in tears. They are not the mark of weakness, but of power. They speak more eloquently than ten thousand tongues. They are the messengers of overwhelming grief, of deep contrition, and of unspeakable love ". Those words summarize the promise we made to ourselves on 22 March 2016 and to all innocent people, partners, husbands, brothers, sisters, fathers and mothers, daughters and sons of those who left us that morning or were seriously injured. If we succeed in making presence, empathy and love our answer to that hatred, we would have won. Five years later, I am fully convinced of this. Let us keep that promise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to observe a few moments of reflection in memory of all the victims of this blind fanaticism and murderous madness.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, on 22 March the European Union unanimously approved sanctions against a number of Chinese authorities for persistent violations of the human rights of the Uighur Muslim minority in Xinjiang. China immediately issued retaliatory measures against, in particular, fellow Members of the European Parliament, the Lithuanian Parliament, the Dutch Parliament and our assembly. These measures are unacceptable and are contrary to the freedom of expression of our Members of Parliament. The Conference of Presidents has adopted my proposal to initiate a common approach by the parliaments whose members are affected by these Chinese sanctions. Such intimidations that Members of Parliament are targeting are unacceptable. Yesterday, I sent a letter to the Presidents of the European Parliament, the Lithuanian Parliament and the Second Chamber of the Netherlands proposing that they send a letter to the President of the National Congress of the Chinese People containing a joint statement strongly condemning these sanctions. Some have already expressed their support. Freedom of expression, parliamentary freedom and the defence of human rights are the pillars of our democracies. We will never compromise with these values.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u7	Madam President, on behalf of the government, I would like to express my explicit support and solidarity for our colleague Samuel Cogolati. Dear Samuel, on behalf of the government, I would like to express my support for the recent decisions of the Chinese government that I strongly reject. This is a serious attack on our freedom, on our freedom of expression and on our system of democracy. I also delivered that message yesterday in the Advisory Committee on European Affairs. I would like to take the opportunity to bring that message, in the name of the government, here too. [[Applause]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u8	Prime Minister, thank you. We shall proceed to the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u9	Prime Minister, yesterday's decisions by governments are a terrible blow to all citizens. They are a huge failure, a waste, after all the false promises made by governments in recent months. Some decision-making parties challenge what they have decided as quickly as possible. It is no longer a concertation committee, but a protest committee, whose behaviour is inspired by mistrust. Such an attitude is serious and pathetic! However, there is still more serious. For the past three months, we have been witnessing a race against the clock between vaccination and variants. Yet we still have to see as many failures and delays. Why are 500,000 doses still in the refrigerators? Why are 200,000 doses still not given 15 days after delivery? Why is the administration of the second dose of Pfizer after 35 days still not applied to protect more fragile people faster? Why do we always see so many failures in convocations? Why withdraw doses from some hospitals, thus preventing them from immunizing their most seriously ill patients? Why do you insist on prohibiting general practitioners from immunizing their patients? Why is Belgium slow to deploy a massive strategy of rapid tests and self-tests to the entire population? Why has it not ordered monoclonal antibody treatments under the European order, knowing that this treatment reduces the risk of hospitalization and death by 70% (which is crucial for very fragile patients)? So these are examples of failure, Prime Minister, which show that Belgium does not deploy 100 per cent of the effective weapons against covid-19. This is unacceptable and inexcusable one year after the start of the crisis and after 22,000 deaths!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u10	Madam President, Prime Minister, German experts believe that a heavy lockdown does not have the desired effect. At the moment Mrs Merkel refrains from a strict Easter break, enter one. However, you promised to avoid a new lockdown by testing and tracing, by vaccinations and targeted measures. However, you have failed. This third lockdown is a threefold failure to say it with the words of the chairman of your liberal coalition partner. Not only is the citizen tired of the measures, he is tired of getting blamed on Heads of Government who have been working for over a year with unconstitutional, raving rules, a year of incompetence and broken promises that undermine the support for the measures themselves. The hairdressing and contact jobs you close the day after tomorrow are much better organized than your vaccinations. Your Health Minister himself stated that shops are not a high risk. Then why are you taking them more seriously? Again for a so-called shock effect? The signal you want to send will plunge 3 out of 10 civilians into deep financial misery. Do you really think someone will believe that a short lockdown will provide a solution if we have been living with a temporary curfew for more than five months? The only short pain this crisis can overcome is a vaccination shot, Prime Minister. When do you provide a shock effect in the vaccination policy? Do you give me objective data today that shows that the problem lies effectively in contact professions and shops? Do you, like Mrs Merkel, come to apologize for your failing policies and broken promises?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u11	Madam President, Prime Minister, desperation is the feeling that now prevails among many people. I fully understand that. There was perspective given and the realm of freedom was close, but we were overtaken by the speed of the British variant of the virus. The doctors and hospitals are alarming us. They really deserve our support. We forget that sometimes. All sectors are hearing from themselves, but it is the care personnel who are in the first line. We need to slow down the spread of the virus. We owe this to those who have been working their asses off for over a year now. I would like to draw your attention to two points. From the start of the crisis, the mental well-being of our people is an important principle for us. People still have to be able to come out and travel in their own country, including by public transport. To what extent is this a starting point for you in the Consultation Committee? I would also ask you to pay attention to those who are vulnerable when the schools close. During the first lockdown we noticed school retardation in children who are not lucky enough to grow up in a strong family, not to mention domestic violence. This is not your competence, but I would like to ask you to convey that message very clearly. Colleagues, just as many people are having a hard time, just as parents are looking for solutions when schools are closing, and just as the small self-employed are abandoning, the unity of command is in disarray. There's an open-and-shut argument between politicians. That's the last thing this country needs. I find that a sad and embarrassing picture, and I would ask you to close ranks. Does everyone have to agree on every corona measure? No. We, too, do not think it is obvious to reduce the outdoor bubble from 10 to 4, and we also wanted to avoid the closure of the schools. However, it is not simple. Each Consultation Committee shall be a balancing exercise (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u12	Mr De Vriendt, your speaking time is over. Your last words and your question will therefore not appear in the record.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u13	Madam President, Prime Minister, in addition to the covid cases and other disease symptoms that we find today, hundreds of people are also in poverty, mental depression or loneliness. Although not everyone has been affected by this sanitary crisis, I think it is only a matter of time before it does. In the last three weeks I have asked three specific questions in plenary. My first question was to correct the moral compass, with special attention to young people. My second question was to make the measures viable and feasible and to take account of health aspects in all areas, including social and mental. Thirdly, I asked that our 11 million-dollar team should not lose to perspective that is potentially unfeasible. Prime Minister, it is not easy for me to stand here today, that is not evident. I have a great deal of respect for the members of the government who have to decide, because I know that it is not obvious. However, I am also one of the people, and I know from that perspective that the people have been waiting a year to grab back the loved ones. Young people have been hearing since January that perspective would come into sight. It's just that I'm having a hard time. If we can only allow temporary relaxations to go into lockdown every time, then we have to stop doing so and then we have to look at other forms to fight the virus. In my view, there are two ways of combating this, two effective tracks to follow. The first track is the limitation of contacts, which we are already doing, but the second track is achieving a vaccination rate of 70%. We really need to make sure that we can move forward on this. The regions are ready, the vaccination centers are open. Prime Minister, how many vaccines are still unused in our country today? Why don't we use them? When will we be able to use them to reach a vaccination rate of 70% and finally talk about real relaxations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u14	Madam President, Prime Minister, a week ago, here, I asked you to take action on this third wave that few of us still dared to name. A hard week later, it's finally done. What a week! A week of compromise, political games and power relations. And above all, it's a waste of time! We believe that these measures, even late, even unfair ones, are unfortunately indispensable and necessary to relieve caregivers. But in order for these measures to take place, so that our people's membership does not collapse, there are two conditions. The first is a minimum of cohesion and solidarity. Of course these measures are harsh. They're hard to explain. They're hard to take. They're hard to defend. But what is ruining people's support is to see some of your partners gun these measures rather than bring them together. In this regard, Prime Minister, I would like to ask myself a question: is the MR still part of the federal government? Or, then, would there be two MRs? One who sends three ministers to the Consultation Committee and takes on these difficult measures and the other who manages Twitter accounts and does not take on. It's still boring and it's not very normal that some of the opposition voices like mine sometimes find themselves doing more pedagogy on these measures than some of the voices of your own majority. The second condition, of course, is a clear acceleration of the conditions for exiting the crisis. The efficacy of vaccines shows this. We will one day emerge from this pandemic. That's for sure! It is therefore our duty to ensure that this confinement is the last. There is obviously the possible acceleration on tests, self-tests, and then there is vaccination. Prime Minister, you will be going to a European summit later. I would like, for once, the European Union to really hit the table with regard to suppliers. Of course, there are logistical problems, but the big problem with vaccination is the supply. Mr Prime Minister, are you going to contribute to the European Union punching on the table in relation to a number of pharmaceutical laboratories and increasingly laborious and sometimes suspicious deliveries? Should Belgium not consider, like some other European states, ordering out of contract from suppliers such as Russia, if its Sputnik vaccine is ever approved? This would help to obtain additional doses of vaccine and get out of this situation as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u15	Prime Minister, 175 new infections, 10 new recordings and, unfortunately, an hourly death, and the figures are only getting higher. The virus has been raging around the country for over a year now. Everyone's tired of it. I understand that frustration and disappointment among the people, but these hard figures are the reality. We can do two things from a political point of view. Or they take it and they solve it. Or one can talk people to the mouth. It is just now so important to explain why these tough measures are needed, why it is necessary to be stricter now, so that we can soon fully open our schools and our restaurants and break that standstill. Colleagues, I only hear parties here that sometimes come with other things. They say: maybe the terraces can open during the Easter holiday? They come up with 300 new ideas to relax at a time when the figures are only rising. Or worse, parties that take the decisions in the Conciliation Committee but do not then have the courage to defend them. Colleagues, words matter. People crave that freedom and they cling to the promises, even if they're false promises. If these false promises cannot be fulfilled, then, of course, acidification will occur. This means that there is less faith in politics. Prime Minister, not those false promises, but the vaccines are the way to freedom. You will have an important European consultation on vaccines. I would have liked to have heard from you what you expect from that meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u16	Madam President, Prime Minister, I listened to your press conference yesterday. Once again, you and your ministers have had the nerve to say that if we were to find ourselves in the situation we are in today, it was the fault of the citizens who did not respect the rules. That's amazing! While yesterday, you should have said one thing, that is, if we were in this situation, it was your fault. It's your fault! It is your governments that do not manage the situation. Say it! Take the microphone to a press conference. Start your press conference by saying, "We've loosed. We can't do it. We promised you freedom, she's not here, and it's because of us." What would it cost you to say that? It would be good, because, minister, no one understands it anymore. And the small attempts made by the MR via Georges-Louis Bouquez are lamentable. Triple failure: "It's not my fault. I'm not in government." Do you really think people will believe you? Do you think that in the Horeca people did not understand that Georges-Louis Boucher decided himself as well? Stop taking people for ass, please! The situation is far too serious and people don't understand anything about your communication anymore. What is it? Primary schools are closing, nursery schools are still open. It's well known, the virus stops at the kindergarten door. Who invented this rule that we had to sit on the side of the glass on SNCB trains? It's known. Coronavirus is afraid of the windows of SNCB trains. On the other hand, the windows of the TECs, STIB, do not scare the virus, which can continue to circulate in these vehicles where we linger like sardines. But it is known that the SNCB windows are turning the virus. Stop it, Minister! It's not serious. We're closing the stores, unless you make a phone call right before. Now you can go home. Clusters are 40% in companies. We decide to close the faucet and move from 10 people to 4 outside. But you're not serious! This is not credible, Prime Minister. I now ask you to make a really credible speech and to take matters into your own hands because it is wrong in the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u17	Madam President, Prime Minister, the period is not easy for anyone. Not for us, not for other Western countries. We didn't have the culture of the virus. Unfortunately, we are learning it hard. In the face of this situation, governments are doing what they can, with cutting-edge measures that destabilize. There is not always a perception of logic. Sometimes it's hard to understand. There is not always a scientific objectivation. Finally, this leads to erratic management. But it is collectively that we must shoulder the discontent of the population and the trades concerned. Some colleagues sometimes react, and this is controversial. I just heard it again. But we cannot at the same time want a citizen's parliament and tell the Members who represent the citizens to close it. I don't want hypocrisy. It is better to say loud and strong and defend the one who suffers, rather than hide and do it from behind. That being said, Prime Minister, there are prohibitions on the exercise of a profession. Support measures are being taken. We have just taken this week: the bridge right, the double bridge right, the exemption from charges. That's good, that makes it possible to live. However, this does not cover the fixed costs of those who cannot work. Pierre Wunsch, the governor of the National Bank, reminded him: what is needed is the policy of the decision-maker. The decision was made to close down activities, and the Regions were referred to support them according to their means. I remember a Flemish party president saying, "Now we're going to see where wealth is." That kind of reasoning is outrageous! We must stand in solidarity. The federal government, the federal state, must support it. Prime Minister, I want to ask you two questions. What means and communication are available to rally citizens to the measures that are being taken? And above all, what additional support for the costs (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u18	Prime Minister, we are celebrating a birthday today. It has been exactly a year since we all had to stay in our quarters, checked with drones and monster fines. We have been faced for a whole year with the morbid malpractice surrounding the residential care centers, the malpractice surrounding the purchase of mouth masks, the failing policy around the test kits and the contact tracing, a blunderbook full. Prime Minister, for a year we have endured a series of absurd measures, half and whole lockdowns, and curfews. We put our education at a disadvantage. We ruined retail and catering. You have become the perfect traveler of molochs like Amazon. We have been listening for a year to the whirlwinds of half and whole experts, who could never shake anything out of their mouths except that we had to go into quarantine. It's always the people's fault. You have no pandemic strategy, Prime Minister, except this one from quarantine. Einstein once said that doing the same thing over and over again and expecting another outcome is the definition of madness. In the meantime, you're also Prime Minister of Lousy Promises. You close the barbershops as the number of infections in the schools increases. You always promised the light at the end of the tunnel, but it was always the lights of an upcoming train. This lockdown is yet another emergency brake of your failing policy. There is only one solution at the moment, Prime Minister, and that is vaccination. But even that's a mess. In the United Kingdom, 800,000 people are vaccinated every day. That's the same as for two months in our country. I have only one question: when will there be a redeeming strategy instead of a policy of padding and wetting and false promises?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u19	Madam President, Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to say that it is good that you are present in the Chamber today, just as it was good yesterday that you came to the Federal Advisory Committee on European Affairs immediately after the press conference. Of course, your place is also in Europe, because Europe has an agenda that is important for the future in the resolution of this pandemic. At the moment, your place is in the Chamber, so we can question you. That's the spirit. Secondly, our country has been able to control the virus in recent months. Without any gloating, I would like to refer to the Netherlands, Germany and France, the neighbouring countries. We have managed to keep it under control thanks to the people who have effectively respected the measures. We must not disappoint these people today. Thirdly, reaching a consensus in a federal country is not easy. Ask Angela Merkel. Each government, every sector and every party comes out loud with their own aspirations. The relief brigade was never far away. It is noisy when it comes to relaxing, it becomes a lot quieter when those Members are specifically asked what they place in place of the current policy. Prime Minister, if things are difficult, we rely on political leadership. You are the chairman of the Consultative Committee, you must carry out what was decided there. What people do not understand is that ministers and party leaders distance themselves from decisions of their own government. I call that irresponsible behaviour towards those who bear responsibility. Prime Minister, was there a complete consensus between all the governments yesterday? If there was that consensus, will you implement, defend and implement the decisions of the Consultative Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u20	Prime Minister, the measures that you took yesterday are hard but necessary to keep the prospects for young people and schools, for the Horeca, but also for all the other sectors that have been under arrest for so long. For these, it's tabula rasa. It's hard for all these businesses that are already facing a cruel drop in customer base, hard for all those who had just reopened, hard for the people who, for more than a year, have been making enormous efforts and suffering. Today, it is not a question of pointing the finger at a particular sector. Today, what is needed is to limit contacts. We need to make a final collective effort, I hope, and focus on the vaccination campaign in order to have new perspectives. If we want to play together, we first need a concerted strategy and it is concerted. You have taken into account the opinion of the experts. You also took into account the hospitals that asked for strong measures. If we want to play together, we also need a strategy that is understood by the team as a whole, and here it must be recognized that the exit of the Concertation Committee has given rise to some sometimes discordant information and flouting. If we want to play together, we must not let some play against their own side. Only a few hours after the announcement of the decisions, hear a former minister and party president say all the harm they think when their formation is those who make the decisions, sorry, but it is a cruel lack of loyalty, solidarity, political sense and also respect for their own ministers. Prime Minister, can you now clarify the measures announced yesterday concerning, in particular, the suspension of courses in education? How will you continue to provide financial support to the affected sectors? How are you going to recover the membership of the population? Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u21	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the people are becoming cynical, even sarcastic. I have just read a statement by Mr Van Gucht that the figures might stabilise next week. I got a text from a friend asking to wish you luck, because your press conference already got the first results. That's absolutely spectacular. Another friend had the impression that for days a precision bombardment of panic bombs was thrown down, hoping that the ban commands could then enter civilian country, because perhaps the resistance was broken after days of preparation. That feeling is shared by a lot of people, and that's not because they deny the disease. There are indeed covidont connoisseurs, but there are very few of them in this House, I think, and we certainly do not. We are talking about medicines, not about the disease. It's about whether the drugs you take out of the locker will help. I've been asking that here for weeks, and I think that's what the people are looking forward to. Does a night clock help? Could you give me an answer to that? Have non-essential stores, as it is called, increased the corona virus in recent weeks? Would you answer that? Or do you like a quack take a few extra pills from the locker, because there will be one that works, one never knows? But these drugs also have side effects and they cause cynicism and sarcasm to the population. Hence my repeated question: will you now tell the people that the measures you are taking help, why they help and what problems they are solving? The debate is not about the disease, the debate is about the medicines used.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u22	Madam President, it is clear that we are at a very decisive moment in the fight against the virus. I thought it was important to be here and I thank you for allowing us to start an hour earlier, so that I can also be present at the European Council. A number of questions have been asked about vaccination, but I will have them answered in more detail by the Minister of Health. However, it is clear that the production of vaccines is a very important issue at today's European Council, as I have said on several occasions. The European Commission and the Member States must ensure that the agreements concluded with producers are respected and consider how we can be more proactive in facilitating the production of vaccines. This will be one of the important speeches I will make at the European Council this afternoon. With regard to the decisions taken and the way in which they were taken, last week after the plenary session, I decided, on the basis of disturbing signals, to speed up the consultation committee's meeting. The cluster analyses mainly revealed virus outbreaks in schools and in the workplace. In fact, on Tuesday, at the beginning of the week, I had already had discussions with the employers to see how we can ensure that the obligation to telework can be met and what we can do to ensure that working on the work floor for those who cannot telework is safer and, for example, more tests can be carried out on the work floor. On Thursday evening, moreover, the federal nuclear cabinet had already come together and the consensus was that we should be particularly vigilant and that we should monitor the situation day after day. At that time it was not clear whether we were sitting on a rising plateau or rather in a situation where things would speed up. That is why the Consultation Committee of last Friday took a number of decisions. Firstly, a number of facilitations which had been envisaged were postponed and, secondly, a number of decisions already taken in some branches of education were generalised throughout the country. The Consultation Committee had also instructed the Ministers of Education to carry out the following task – I quote the note which was drafted at the initiative of all governments: "In view of the acceleration of the increase in the number of contaminations and outbreaks in education, the Committee instructs the Ministers of Education to submit, by Monday" – i.e. on 22 March – "a detailed and comprehensive plan to reduce as much contamination as possible and as quickly as possible the number of outbreaks." That was the decision taken by the governments together at that time. On Monday and Tuesday, however, it became clear that the situation was getting worse. That is why I asked for the Consultative Committee to be convened as soon as possible on Wednesday morning. I also asked our experts to give advice on the methods we could use to stop the continued linear increase. Tuesday evening, I already had a digital consultation with the prime ministers. Everyone felt the sense of urgency, everyone was convinced that a cooling-off period was needed and that that period should be a solidarity effort, in all branches of our society. Yesterday, the whole Consultative Committee took the decisions that are now known. All the governments of our country have been associated. After the meeting of the Consultative Committee, I heard all the Prime Ministers say that the decisions taken were necessary. They defended those decisions, which is also the case after a meeting of the Consultative Committee. Of course, these decisions came at a time when we had hoped to be able to make other decisions. We had hoped that we would have taken the turn towards perspective. Clearly, this is a disappointment. But this disappointment is not only felt in our country. All of our neighbouring countries are forced to take measures that they did not think should be taken a few weeks ago. The face of the pandemic has changed, it is clear, and that is the main reason for these measures. We are not talking here about the fact that citizens have or have not fully followed the rules, the pandemic has changed because the variants are now dominant and more virulent. This disappointment must not distract us from what is really necessary. If we see an accelerated increase in hospitalisations, we know that there is only one solution, that is to limit contacts everywhere as much as possible. Whether in the workplace, in shops or in schools, everything must be done to minimise contact. That is the basis and substance of the decision taken yesterday in the Conciliation Committee. Do everything to make sure that contacts are restricted. It is logical for competent ministers to look at the way in which this is organised. However, make sure that we avoid getting in touch with each other. I have also heard all the Prime Ministers defend the measures in this way, namely that they will ensure that there are as few contacts as possible. The Consultative Committee acted accordingly. It's decisions that are needed to break the third wave right now. I have no doubts about that. All of us together, all governments together, but also all citizens together, will be able to break the third wave. If we have learned one thing this year, if the current pandemic has taught us one thing, then it is that the pandemic does not tolerate politics. What the pandemic needs is crisis management, maneuverability, adjustment and coolness. This means that if the situation changes, it needs to be adjusted. This means that sometimes plans have to be put away when the situation changes. I have no shame to confess that I do not hesitate to change plans, if necessary, if the situation has changed fundamentally and our people are in danger. That is also what the people expect of us. This also means that the management of the pandemic is sometimes a lesson in humility for all of us. However, I will do what is necessary to protect our people. The pandemic has also taught us that we can only control such a situation by working together. If everyone brings their share and we provide a collective and solidarity effort, then we will reverse the figures. It is certain that such an effort is not easy, but if we all stand together, we will succeed. If the Consultative Committee had not reached a consensus yesterday, it would have been not only about vaccination centres but also triage centres in the coming weeks. In those centres, doctors should choose who gets another bed and who doesn't. Most beds would be occupied in the meantime because too many covid patients would have been included. I am therefore pleased that the Conciliation Committee has been able to reach a decision by consensus. I cannot imagine that there would be someone here who would want another decision to be made. It is true that making decisions in our country sometimes requires angelic patience. It sometimes takes time when the situation would like us to act quickly. I attach great importance to that consultation. I attach importance to listening to all governments in order to reach a joint decision. I would therefore like to express my thanks to all the Prime Ministers for the efforts and the courage that were needed yesterday to reach a decision by consensus. I attach importance to consultation, but I also attach importance to the fulfilment of the agreements and, afterwards, to the joint defence of the decisions we have taken. In my view, that is the only way forward. This is also what we are required to do: make the necessary decisions, listen to each other and defend the decisions together and implement them together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u23	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. You're calling for membership. You're calling for trust. How do you want citizens to trust you and trust your governments when, in your government, parties of your majority denounce the measures that are taken, when parties of your majority play it electoralist, when parties of your majority here again, today, talk about erratic management? Prime Minister, yes, this management is erratic, even the majority recognizes it. This will not bring us out of the gravissim situation in which we find ourselves. This will not allow our fellow citizens to regain their freedoms tomorrow. This will not allow us to finally have a much more effective vaccination. Indeed, has the face of the pandemic changed? Yeah, he's changed, but we've known since January that he's going to change. We've known since January that variants will dominate the landscape in a few weeks. So we're in the current situation. Since the beginning of January, I have been making proposals on vaccination: to space the two doses for Pfizer, to administer a single dose for patients who are positive for covid-19, knowing that this would give them a correct immunity (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u24	Mrs Fonck, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u25	You chose not to apply them even though it was scientifically validated. We're just gonna start looking at it. We've lost valuable time. I hope that this will now be implemented quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u26	Prime Minister, a great deal has been said here about people lying and false promises. I'll quote a few false promises. Then I'm not even talking about the coronabarometers that were announced and we've never seen. I am talking about literal promises from your policy statement of 1 October 2020: "I say clearly here: our country, our economy, our companies, they cannot cope with a new overall lockdown." On 31 January, you said, "If the hairdressers open, that's for good." Today the hairdressers are still safe, Saturday they are no longer safe. Those are all explanations in which you lie to people. In the meantime, I think this has become the mascot of your government. (The speaker showed a Pinocchio) That's what you've become good at, lying to people. You're wrong, the core isn't restricting contacts, the core is vaccinating, testing, tracing, all this government is failing in. Do you think after a year you can tell someone that a short lockdown is going to provide a solution? No one believes you anymore. Your coalition partners no longer believe you. They fight on the street. The citizen doesn't believe it anymore. I don't even think you believe it anymore. This is for you, the Pinocchio Prize. You're the champion of lying to people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u27	Colleagues, the corona crisis is too serious and too painful, Mrs Pas, to perform a cheap spectacle here and play political games. It's your choice to deal with it that way. Colleagues, Prime Minister, no one takes the corona measures for his pleasure. Nobody. No one has a magic formula to get out of this health crisis very quickly, not even the opposition. You must explain to me, Mr De Roover, that yesterday you agreed to the measures in the Conciliation Committee and that you are here today nothing but critical and negative. You'll have to explain that to me, because people don't understand that. Soon you may have an opportunity to explain. It is true that we must now insist on compliance with the measures. That is now crucial to bring down the numbers. But indeed, how do we want people to comply with the measures, when they see politicians rolling on the streets? If the usefulness of the corona measures is constantly questioned by politicians themselves, how on earth do we want people to have greater support? Anyone who sits around the table in the Consultation Committee and agrees with the measures should not come back and complain to the public afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u28	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. It is true, we have a virus that we unfortunately have no control over. But when I hear some of you in this House, I fall into the ground of substitute shame. I am here as a new Member of Parliament, and I must say that I find it regrettable how we are dealing with the Prime Minister here today, who is trying to get the crisis under control. Prime Minister, you are about to have an important meeting. I wish you every success in that. We are counting on you, because we really need the vaccinations to get out of here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u29	Prime Minister, you are right on one point: the variants have won the race against vaccination. The problem is, we know this is going to happen and we know this race is going to be lost for months. Since January, not only a series of experts, but some of us have explained that this is inexorable. This was going to happen less quickly than in Britain, which had left its bars and restaurants open, but we all knew that as soon as the British variant was in the majority, the risk of exponentiality would be there and that we would have a pandemic in the pandemic. Nevertheless, in your government, we had invitations to make promises to hairdressers, restorers and all the others, and that is what we are paying for today. That's amazing! The same happened in March and October last year. Every time, our country imagines that, by magic, the reality that strikes all our neighbours will eventually save us. Every time, we're wrong and it ends up catching up, even harder than the others. Vaccination is the key. There is a need to mobilize the population by setting clear goals. Why not make a commitment to mobilize all wills so that, for example, all over the age of 60 are vaccinated before the summer or, in any case, at more than 50% or 60%? If you give this kind of horizon, you will give the impression that the sacrifices we all make will be worth it. We're missing something like that. We lack a date, even a date of mobilization, even a theoretical one, to say that vaccination is accelerating and that what we do is worth it. I believe that this kind of commitment and mobilization should be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u30	Prime Minister, it is good that you stress the importance of solidarity so strongly, but that important message does not seem to have arrived everywhere. Politicians have an incredible responsibility when it comes to choice, results and acceptance of measures. Mrs. Pas, the virus is our enemy. Let us not use the Easter break to make things worse and get carried away in a political game. (Protests from Mrs Barbara Pas) I am also sorry to have to say that here. In any case, let us use this period to fight together in solidarity and to ensure that we can defeat the virus. It is the responsibility of everyone in Parliament to put this above political profiling. This is what people expect from us, that we accept our responsibility. That's also what they can count on us for. I'm counting on you, too, colleagues. I am counting on us to fight this battle together and show solidarity. That's very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u31	Prime Minister, yesterday your government ministers said that the mistake was once again with the citizen, and today you say that the mistake lies in the variant of the virus. Why can't you now admit that your policy of recent months has failed? There's obviously a link. You can see that for yourself, can't you? You come here today again to exert emotional pressure and declare that in hospitals people will be faced with the choice of who gets which bed. That is exactly the choice they had to make in Italy a year ago, and where are we a year later? For the same choice. That shows only the failure of the policy. That is why we must come up with solutions. We come up with solutions. First, general testing and tracing. We're too weak in that. Secondly, testing in companies, in the meat industry and in other industries. That's what's missing out there. Thirdly, delete the patents of the pharmaceutical industry. How is it that production chains exist in Europe and in the world, that the molecules are known but not produced? How can we in our society allow patents to put such a brake on the production of vaccines? Fourthly, the quarantine fee should go to 100 %, because people should not choose between at least 30% loss of purchasing power or go into quarantine. These are the four solutions that you need to apply today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u32	Prime Minister, I spoke of erratic management because it is management through learning, testing and error. We do what we can because we don't, like some, have infuse science, and it's not enough with a snap of fingers to get the solution. There are always people who have things to say and who know better than everyone else. But here, together, we try to move forward and solve the problems. It is clear that we must stand in solidarity with each other, but also with the sectors that are closed. It is essential to help these sectors to cover their fixed costs. This is our responsibility. The crisis is a revelation of personalities – we see people expressing themselves. It is also a sign of how our structures work. And it must be recognized that it is not always ideal in our country. We should, moreover, reflect on this. As far as Pinocchio is concerned, I know the story. In this story, some wear a hat with donkey ears. Well, I give it to them!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u33	Prime Minister, I am not going into your theory. Our country is world champion in the number of victims per 100,000 inhabitants, despite three lockdowns. Other countries, such as Sweden, have never imposed a lockdown, and there was not half of our casualties. I'll give you the answer. We started an hour earlier because you have to go to the European Council. When you get there, take Charles Michel, the President of the European Council, by hand and take the train. You sit at the window, not to be punished, and you lead to Leiden. There are 4 million vaccines waiting to be injected. Then you will come back, you will perhaps bring other people from the European Council and you will be heading for Italy. There are 27 million vaccines waiting. If you come back here, make sure that the vaccination continues, because that is the only solution. If she continues, I invite you to a terrace on the coast. Mrs Depraetere, you may come with me, because I have just heard that you have some frustration. But make sure, Prime Minister, that the basic issues have been done, and that is inoculating the people. After a year of mispolicy, it is time for something positive to be said.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u34	Prime Minister, you confirmed that there was a consensus in the government yesterday. All governments subsequently joined the Consultative Committee, the federal government and the state governments. I think that is extremely important. It is now essential to implement effectively the consensus you reached yesterday. You promised. I regret what happened afterwards. I may still be part of the classical school, but a minister who sits in a government agrees with what his head of government has put on the table: their ministre assume ou il démissionne. That might be the classic school, but there's no other way. As far as party chairmen of the majority are concerned, I understand that a party chairman wants to weigh on policy. If one wants to sit down at the table to make decisions, there is a simple possibility for this: their predecessor is the member of the monter dans le gouvernement. However, a government has its own mission, party leaders have a different mission. We will not mix these two with each other. Prime Minister, I admire the courage with which you say yesterday and today that you will implement the package of measures, because it is necessary in the public interest for public health. Go on, do it and don't look back.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u35	Prime Minister, first of all, in the face of the pitiful spectacle that some of us are offering today, I would like to tell you, once again, that our entire group is behind you and behind the government because we know that you are taking the difficult steps, certainly unpopular but courageous because they are necessary, to get out of this pandemic. To those who say that this new lockdown is a triple failure, I tell them that this triple failure is firstly to question the decisions that they themselves make in Codeco; secondly to divide to try to win individual points; thirdly to undermine the collective membership of the population. I'm sick of these political games! Damn those crazy horsemen! These measures weigh not only on Belgium, which is working, but on all. And I address myself to these frantic tweeters: what do you say to those who have not worked for months? What do you say to those who see the patients walking in front of their eyes and who have to tell others that they cannot be treated for lack of room? What do you say to our youth and seniors who suffer and feel alone? It is no longer a question of accepting that some people oppose each other's sectors, people to each other. The measures are difficult and painful and we will not be able to get out of them without solidarity. It is time that some people's political schizophrenia stopped. I tell them once again: one team, one captain, one voice!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u36	Mr De Vriendt, like Mr Dewael, you belong to a school. You belong to the school that suits the government, which believes that Parliament exists to bow humbly to the government when it enters, and to bow humbly when it leaves, and that it should not play any of its own role or ask a critical question. That is your view of Parliament, not mine. I thank you for that. Prime Minister, you had a prepared text. Twelve questions have been asked. I do not have the impression that you have deviated one jot from your text, which was drawn up by your cabinet this morning. Whether we ask questions in Parliament or not, it will not affect your answer. That's actually unworthy. When serious questions are asked here, you do not answer them. I cannot therefore reply to your prepared text. I would like to pay tribute in the remaining time to Flemish Minister Ben Weyts, who, thanks to his actions in the last few months and his refusal to stop teaching, has been able to avoid a huge disaster for our youth. Much honor to his manly behaviour in that regard. Finally, one of your coalition partners is constantly sticking sticks in the wheels of your policy. Another coalition partner is changing his name. Make use of that, Prime Minister. Use Conner Rousseau's enthusiasm and make your government slogan: go with the syringe!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u37	Madam President, Minister, I would like to talk about telework. The vast majority of employers do their utmost to ensure a safe working environment, which also makes sense. After all, it is in their own interests to do everything in their power so that they can continue to work. The KU Leuven Research Institute for Labour recently announced that 42% of the jobs in our country lend themselves to telework. At the same time, it has found that as many as 58% of workers in our country are teleworking. This indicates that there is more teleworking than should be. This also indicates at least very strongly that many employers and employees are doing their best to meet the requirement of teleworking. Nevertheless, anyone who adheres neatly to the rules is now charged with additional administration for registering the mandatory telework in the company via an app, which would make it easier for the government to control the mandatory telework. In addition, the data on which you base yourself, in order to say that there is a problem with compulsory teleworking, are not very relevant. For example, you referred earlier in committee to traffic data and Google Traffic Data, which do not distinguish between commuting, freight traffic and non-essential movements. Is the measure of the extra administration that you impose on all entrepreneurs in proportion to the so-called problem you want to solve? I have a few questions about this. Firstly, are you prepared to discuss this with the entrepreneurs themselves, in order to look for alternatives that do not impose additional administrative burdens on entrepreneurs? Secondly, what does the government intend to do with the data collected, even after the corona time? How will the actual use of the data be monitored? Thirdly, and not unimportantly, will the government as an employer also be obliged to register telework in the same way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u38	Madam President, Minister, we must be honest, the impact of the Easter break is enormous. Once again, sectors must close, even those that had just opened. Shops are also forced to work by appointment. Those are tough choices, which are unfortunately necessary in view of the figures. A great deal of effort is required in all areas, including employers. Greater commitment to teleworking is essential. That makes sense, too. It is good that there is increased attention to telework, both in the private and in the public sector. However, that is not easy, and we must admit that very honestly. We realize that it is starting to weigh very heavily on the workers, they need contact in the workplace. It is not obvious for employers to get all this organized properly. Our group also supports the control of telework, which is necessary. However, I would like to emphasise what Mr Verhelst said a few weeks ago, namely that we cannot organise a witch hunt for employers. Many companies are struggling and everyone is doing their best to organise the telework as well as possible. However, we must not lose out in additional red tape. I hear you're working on an application for employers to pass on telework. I also read that the data must be transmitted from tomorrow through the RSZ application. Minister, I have a number of questions about this. How exactly does the application work? Is the privacy of the employees taken into account? Does the procedure create an additional administrative burden for entrepreneurs? In what way were companies informed during this short period of time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u39	Madam President, Minister, as we know, telework – although mandatory – is becoming less and less respected. It is enough to see today the traffic jams at peak times, as well as the trains and buses crowded in the morning. And we understand very well why: it is long, and even very long! However, such a measure is essential if we want the efforts made in recent months to pay off. It is one of the keys designed to limit contamination and finally see the end of the tunnel. Many workers are willing to make these efforts, because they know that staying at home means limiting the number of contacts and the risk of contamination, lowering the numbers, improving the overall situation and providing opportunities for everyone. Similarly, telework is a means of supporting those whose sectors are closed and who are desperately waiting to return to work. It is also at this price that everyone will be able to return to a normal life. For some, it's particularly painful. I am thinking of the parents whose children will also be at home next week, the isolated people for whom the workplace is the only contact and who, despite everything, participate in this solidarity effort. Still, these people must be able to stay at home and be given the means to do so. Indeed, too many employers are still putting pressure on their teams. In the current circumstances, it is difficult to say to his boss: "Today, I am staying at home." Minister, the questions are very simple. How will you strengthen control to remind that the basic rule remains the primacy of telework? What inspections do you intend to organise in the workplace to ensure that those in the workplace are really essential?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u40	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, last January, I was already asking you about the legislation in force concerning telework and the covid crisis, which did not take into account a whole series of criteria. Telework at home was a term that did not exist in legislation, nor was it mandatory telework. At the same time, a collective labour agreement was concluded by the social partners. It was a very good thing, but as I was already telling you at that time, it doesn't fix everything. This does not, in particular, regulate all the provisions relating to well-being at work, which were not taken over, or taken over in a very vague manner. Today, the day after the Codeco, where the measures are reinforced as we have heard, telework is more important than ever. It is strengthened and indispensable. These questions come back. Are there any measures in the government to ensure this well-being at work, which is required, moreover, by the Labour Code? Then let me bounce back on the news. Today you are announcing a strengthening of telework controls in companies, whether public or private. You're talking about a form to fill out, mentioning the number of teleworkers. I would like to know on which criteria these targeted controls will be based. How will they be targeted? Is it based on the number of people who telework, or on the size or nature of the business? I have one last question about fast business tests. We know that the question has been under discussion for a few days. Is there any progress on this, and is there a protocol? Will an opinion be sought from the social partners? So many questions that arise today more than ever. Above all, the tension in companies should be avoided. Employers also find it very difficult to deal with this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, telework at home is mandatory in all companies, associations and services for all staff members, unless it is impossible because of the nature of the function, the continuity of the management of the business, its activities or its services. I am quoting here from the ministerial decree of 28 October. Since 28 October 2020, telework at home is therefore an obligation; an obligation that is an integral part of the strategy to combat this pandemic. In fact, teleworking reduces contacts within companies, within public services, among colleagues, as well as contacts during public transport trips. This is an important element in reducing contact and thus contamination. I know it's hard, but mandatory telework really has to be respected by everyone. The health of workers, and the expansion of the population as a whole, must be protected. This is a collective responsibility, also in the interests of the health of our economy. Since 17 December 2020, the inspection services have carried out almost 14,500 checks specifically related to compliance with telework, whether in private or public services. Yesterday morning, in the Luxembourg regional press, a check was reported in a large Luxembourg intercommunal. This is evidence that controls take place both in the private sector and in public administrations. On the basis of these checks, and not just traffic figures or data, in particular from certain mobile or navigation operators, we have unfortunately found that we have faced almost 19% of public or private employers in breach of this teleworking obligation. This is why yesterday the Conciliation Committee decided to take additional measures, with an electronic registration system for workers who cannot do telework, a strengthening of controls and a tightening of penalties, especially in case of recidivism. For the electronic registration, the RSZ will put an instrument online on its website tomorrow evening. Employers from the private and public sectors will have to fill out a form there. I think it is important that the instrument is as simple as possible. Only two data are requested. Firstly, the number of employees of the company per business division. Secondly, the number of employees with a non-teleworking function. This data must be transmitted once a month. This tool, this application, will allow inspection services to have an overall view of telework figures, whether in the private or public sector. This will also enable inspection services to have an immediate clear view of the importance of teleworking within a sector or within a company and, finally, to be able to better target control operations on enterprises or public services which are clearly exaggerating with face-to-face work. This is for the first phase, the current phase in this still acute crisis situation. However, the purpose of the registration system, with the positive development of the health situation, is also to gradually enable workers who have been on telework for a long time to return to work. It is a fundamental question of balance, well-being and also of the management of enterprises and public services, and of being able as and when the health situation changes, to allow the presential return, one day, two days, three days a week, within companies. This tool also has this vocation to frame the gradual return to business for workers. This seems to me to be an important element in this search for balance, well-being at work, both in business and at home for the time being. Mrs Reuter, this is part of this shared desire, I think, to be able to fight this pandemic quickly and take into account the well-being of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u42	Minister, you are talking about well-being at work. People need social contacts, also to do their job well. However, most employers and employees do indeed comply with the mandatory telework. More and more people are also suffering from telework. Your only answer is an app to record that telework. This will not promote well-being, especially in the mental field. You also claim that 40% of the infections occur in the workplace. It is then very strange that no additional measures should be taken just in those places where teleworking is not possible. You're making it hard enough for people to work. I do not advocate any additional measures at all, but it does illustrate that this app is actually the exponent of this government's failing corona policy. I very much regret that. You need to make it possible for people to work. Well-being at work also means mental well-being and not extra administration for employers who already comply with the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u43	Minister, I realise that it is not easy. You emphasise very strongly that there must also be as little contact as possible in the workplace, which is very important. It is, of course, a concern of everyone. I know that you, together with the Prime Minister, have also addressed the employers' organisations. I'm sure that's a positive thing. I would also like to thank you, giving in the information will be easy and easy to use. I repeat the message that there must be no witch-hunting on our companies. By this registration they indicate that they are very committed to telework. This is important for tackling this major health crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u44	Minister, thank you for your full answer. It is true that we have all been shot down by the announcement yesterday of new measures. No one's applause. No one takes these measures with a smile. We feel like we'll never see the end of the tunnel. Today, more than ever before, we must call for solidarity and for the sense of the collective. Lack of solidarity seriously affects health. It is also this lack of solidarity that drives workers to strike. I would like to tell them here that we understand and support them. The effort must be collective. If we can telework, we have to. Employers must shoulder their responsibilities. They must apply the rules, but also support their workers who are at home because they have no other choice to avoid the risk of contamination. To conclude my speech, I am tempted to say that I am speaking on behalf of the 11 million Belgians who all together want to get out of this crisis. We're counting on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u45	Minister, thank you for your clarification. It is true that since the beginning of the management of this crisis, it is a work of balance between the measures to be taken to defeat the virus and the freedom and well-being of the population. It's the same for telework. The balance between telework, which must be strengthened in order to combat the virus, and also the well-being of Belgium, which works and continues to work under conditions that are not always easy. I was telling you when I was questioning you a few weeks ago. For many teleworkers, telework is done on a kitchen table, in poor conditions. Attention must also be paid to this and to the mental health of this working Belgium. It's a good work of balance. I really urge the government to continue to pay close attention to both this working Belgium and the employers who continue to face heavy burdens. We must ensure that this balance is maintained so that everyone can find themselves there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u46	Madam President, Minister, many parents are in her hands because of the decision of the Consultative Committee to tighten up certain measures. Youth camps are only allowed to continue with 10 instead of 25 members. The Easter holiday is being brought forward by a week, since the schools are closing, and now it is also being called on not to take the children to kindergarten or childcare. Parents therefore suddenly have to find solutions for their children. Fortunately, there is the possibility of taking the so-called quarantine leave, a form of temporary unemployment due to force majeure in the corona pandemic when the school or the crib is closed. Both in the committee meeting and in the media, you have confirmed that parents can also use and apply for quarantine leave if a youth camp is cancelled or if their children are no longer able to go to camp. Your answer in the committee on Tuesday reassured me, but now I am not anymore because of the testimony of a representative of the Family Association on the radio this morning. Someone contacted the RVA because the kid can't go to youth camp. The RVA reported very nicely that the camp has not been cancelled, but that the child can no longer go because there are only 10 participants, and called it a pity. That, of course, is not the intention, Minister. Parents have no solutions because we have to take health measures. We should therefore be able to take quarantine leave. The schools close a week earlier than planned. Many municipal authorities provide for additional care or emergency care, some schools as well, but that will not be enough for everyone. In such cases, too, CD&V believes that parents who have to work and take care of their children at the same time should be able to take the quarantine leave. Minister, do you agree with our view that parents should be able to take quarantine leave in such cases? We mean that in cases where a camp has been cancelled or cannot continue, or with fewer children can continue. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u47	Mrs Lanjri, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u48	Madam President, introducing temporary unemployment force majeure corona for all sectors is one of the first measures I have introduced. It is indeed the duty of the government to protect workers during this crisis. At the same time, I introduced temporary unemployment specifically for children who have to be quarantined. The Law of 20 December 2020 allows parents to use the system of temporary unemployment when their child cannot go to school because the school or class closes or quarantines. After consultation with our administration, the FOD WASO and the RVA, we believe that the cancellation of a camp can be equated with the closure of a class. This also applies to childcare or other reasons. An employee will thus be able to exercise this right when proof is provided that the camp has been cancelled by the corona measures. This can be done by e-mail, by letter or by a certificate from the organisation. It is, of course, important for parents to be financially supported when they are obliged to take leave as a result of the crisis. All this information will be available on the website of FOD WASO and the RVA in the next few hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u49	It is true, Minister, that we need to offer solutions when tight measures are being taken and parents can only stay at home to provide care for their children because there is no longer care or because the children can no longer go to camp because the groups have been reduced to ten. I also hope that the information that will be on the website is very clear. This measure applies not only when the camp does not proceed, but also when children cannot go because the groups have been reduced. Now that schools are closed and the municipalities do not have enough care to take care of all these children, proof of the municipality's absence of care should suffice. I hope you are quite clear that the RVA is also applying the spirit of the law that we have approved in this House. We should also be able to support parents in these cases in order to prevent children from going to grandparents, because they are not intended to be infected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u50	Madam Minister, the difference between Europe and China became painfully clear this week. Both speak out sanctions, but the objectives behind these sanctions can no longer be different. It is good that the European Union sends a strong signal that the repression of the Uighurs is not tolerated. It shows that Europe stands for human rights, and it also confirms that the European countries do not let themselves be broken up. China is now coming up with a counter-reaction. That may seem the same, but it's not. The counter-reaction is a cynical attempt by China to limit the free speech, to force politicians, even in this Chamber, to look another way. I hope and believe to speak on behalf of the entire Chamber when I say that no one can restrict our democratic freedoms. Mr Cogolati, I therefore express my express support for you. We have no lessons to learn from a country that oppresses people, from Hong Kong in the southeast to the Uighurs in the northwest. Sanctions, Madam Secretary, are not enough. They are good as a signal, but a real solution requires a structural, strategic approach. That's the only way we're going forward. Madam Minister, you have already indicated that you will continue to follow this up with your European colleagues. How will you ensure that it is not just a matter of sanctions, but that we take a structural, strategic approach towards China at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u51	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I must confess that when I tabled this question last week, I did not expect what was going to happen this Monday at all. Individual sanctions have been imposed against my family and me, denying me access to Chinese territory, Macao, Hong Kong, but also prohibiting me from dealing with Chinese entities or people. Let's be clear! These sanctions do not affect me personally in my daily life. They don't scare me. They are nothing compared to what millions of Uighurs must suffer. I'm thinking of Uighur women forcibly sterilized, Uighurs locked up in concentration camps. I'm thinking Tibetans. I am thinking of the young demonstrators for democracy on the streets of Hong Kong. What China has targeted is not military interest. These are not major economic interests. It is the heart of our democracy. It is our most fundamental freedoms that have been targeted through these sanctions. That is why, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I really want to thank you very sincerely and from the bottom of my heart. You were the first in Europe to react and strongly condemn these sanctions. Madam President, I would also like to thank the Prime Minister and all colleagues for their very warm signs of solidarity. It is true that there can be differences between us, and that is normal, that is what makes our democratic debates rich. That is why we also cherish this assembly. It is here that, as democratically elected parliamentarians, we are fighting for these fundamental values. We will never allow other countries, even powerful ones, to trample on them. The Chinese Communist Party (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u52	Madam President, on Monday 22 March 2021, EU Foreign Ministers indeed voted on a new list of sanctions under the EU human rights sanctions regime. The list has been drawn up on the basis of objective and verifiable elements and reflects serious concerns about the situation in Xinjiang. With this decision, the European Union sends a very clear message, as you rightly pointed out: we are not prepared to accept violations of fundamental rights without reacting. As you know, China has reacted through retaliatory measures that I will not call back. At any rate, we see that it is our freedom of expression that is being targeted, our Parliament and its elected representatives – to the very heart of our democracy. As you know, Mr Cogolati, since I publicly tweeted and we talked online, you have all our political support – but also personal. I have indeed published a notice. We also called the Chinese Ambassador in Brussels to formally repeat this message. Our position is clear: human rights are universal rights. They must be respected and protected at all times and everywhere. We are determined to defend our values and call on China to engage in a constructive dialogue on human rights and to avoid escalation in the interests of all of us. We will, of course, continue the discussion with our European partners. I'm being asked what to do outside of the sanctions. I believe that we must continue to work on dialogue, bilaterally or multilaterally, through the discussions that our representative Borrell may have with China, the Commission or other institutions. I had a discussion this morning with Secretary of State Blinken on relations with China. In the discussions they had in Anchorage, they also put this point on the table. So we're not the only ones. This dialogue must continue while firmly marking our ability to act when things are not moving in the right direction. As regards our investment agreement at European level, an agreement in principle was reached at the end of the year. Belgium was one of the first countries to express in a working group the extent to which the whole question of respect for the fundamental rights of workers should be taken up in this opinion. This agreement is the subject of a legal grooming and the committee which deals with it at European Parliament level has suspended its work precisely in response to Chinese retaliation following the decisions we took on Tuesday. As far as the Belgian position is concerned, we have already made a strong statement on this subject and we will continue to see how things are going. I do not hide from you that what has happened recently will have an influence on the position we will adopt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u53	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Let us be honest, if Europe or Belgium does not press ahead now, it will have consequences. We must show that we do not ignore human rights violations. That must be done for us with a structural solution. We need to work on a strategic policy towards China. My movement also advocates a ban on products made in forced labour, and a clear duty of care for companies. The EU-China investment agreement must be reviewed for us. If necessary, we must dare to go further with sanctions for human rights violations. If that is not possible at European level, then at Belgian level. My group has prepared a legislative proposal so that the government has the instrument, a Belgian Magnitsky law. Madam Minister, the deterioration of freedoms must be stopped all over the world, because democracy dies in silence and the dictatorship over-wins.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u54	Minister, thank you for your clear and uncompromising support. I don't think anyone here pleads for escalation. On the contrary, we are advocating a clear and frank dialogue, without denying our most fundamental values, which of course include human rights, social rights and environmental rights. Thank you for reminding us that we cannot, on the one hand, advocate freedom and, on the other hand, sign an investment agreement without binding guarantees against forced labour by the Uighurs. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u55	Madam President, Madam Minister, as you know, on the night of Friday to Saturday Turkey came out of the Istanbul Convention, a Council of Europe convention that simply aims to combat violence against women. This is a unilateral decision taken by Turkish President Erdogan. Since Saturday, Turkish women have been on the streets to denounce this decision and demand recognition of their rights. I would like to take this opportunity today to show them my full solidarity in this fight. They are all the more mobilized as this decision was taken in a context of extreme violence against women in Turkey. Observers counted up to 300 femicides in 2020, to talk only about this type of crime. This decision makes Turkey the first country to leave the Istanbul Convention, which, of course, sends a very bad signal. Indeed, several European countries have not yet ratified it and some, including Poland, are already announcing that they will leave it. The European Union itself has not yet acceded to it, which has been blocked by several Member States. This is a very bad signal especially in this period of pandemic when we see that the crimes to which women are subjected are exploding all over the world, in Europe, but also in Belgium. I want to say and say again, the situation in our country is far from perfect and it has worsened further during this period of crisis covid-19. By 2021, there are already no fewer than eight femicides. I only focus here on cases of extreme violence. I am not talking about the number of calls for help that are multiplying. Madam Minister, you have said that you regret this decision, but given the seriousness of the stakes for women's rights, I think more answers are expected. Minister, what answers are you going to give Turkey? Have you made contact with the ambassador? Are sanctions envisaged? When will the European Union finally accede to the Istanbul Convention? What steps has Belgium taken to ensure that the European Council's response is strong? Basically, what is the message to European countries that would be tempted to do the same?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u56	Madam President, Mrs de Laveleye, thank you for your questions on a subject that I put at the forefront of many discussions, both at the multilateral level – I did it again at NATO this week – and bilaterally. I immediately expressed our regret at Turkey's withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention, which prevents and combats violence against women and domestic violence, all the more so in view of the increase in this type of violence in that country. But you did well to remind us that it is not just Turkey. Violence against women is unfortunately global, and it also exists in our country. We must therefore make sure that we take the necessary steps and take the decisions that make us, too, improve in this area. It is also true that attacks on this front are increasing. You talked about Hungary and Poland. This is a truth that we have to face in a European Union. Turkey is not one of them, but our Polish and Hungarian partners are. These are subjects that I also discussed very clearly at the beginning of the week, as we had a rather busy international agenda. We had a Foreign Affairs Council and a European Affairs Council. I immediately spoke out to denounce this and reiterate our commitment. Reiterating commitment is good. You have to say it, then you have to do it. At the level of foreign affairs, one of the tools is the financing of support actions through the Council of Europe. I have asked that these support actions be focused on women's rights especially at a time when other States decide to lift these protections. Is there any other way to do this? We are working with Turkey on a positive agenda at European level. We said that we were ready to take the sanctions; I am thinking here of the process of escalation of tensions in the Mediterranean, for example. We found that Turkey had shown goodwill and had worked towards de-escalation in the Mediterranean. That is why we have said that we may be able to put ourselves in a positive pattern provided that this situation becomes perennial and that it is not a one-off, to avoid sanction, in a dynamic where such considerations are and will be put on the agenda. The ball is now in Turkey's camp.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u57	Madam Minister, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u58	I'm finishing, Madam President. We are following this very closely. It is not a diplomatic way of saying that we are doing nothing. On the contrary, ma'am, be assured that I am this personally very close!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u59	I ask you to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u60	Thank you, Madam Deputy Prime Minister. It was really important to take the time for this debate today. I listened carefully to your answers. I know that we are on the same page to point out that women's rights are not rights that are chosen à la carte. These are fundamental human rights that affect 50% of us. We simply cannot accept that countries close to us, with which we have many trade and diplomatic agreements, can trample on them. A lot of discussions are at stake. You recalled several of them. We expect this kind of decision to have consequences. What is happening outside our borders must not distract us from the efforts that still need to be made at home. You stressed that, too, and I thank you for that. Your government, at the initiative of Secretary of State Sarah Schlitz, is moving forward, but everyone's attention in the government needs to be strengthened. Combating violence against women must be a top priority in Belgium and internationally. For Turkish, European and Belgian women, you have our full support for a strong response to these challenges.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u61	The images of the chaos in the stations and in the trains to the coast during the last crocus holiday are still fresh in our memory. We saw overcrowded stations; both in the station hall and on the platforms there were passengers who wanted to take the train close together. Also on the trains the passengers were sometimes too close together. However much the staff of SNCB, the train escorts and the Securail agents did their best to ensure compliance with the corona measures, they were virtually powerless to control the large influx of travellers. The mayors of various coastal cities repeatedly expressed their dissatisfaction with the fact that their city was almost flooded with visitors. There too, the large mass of tourists could not be controlled. They urged SNCB to take action on several occasions. They asked to be sure not to put in any extra trains or to transport extra passengers to their cities. It can hardly surprise: SNCB remained deaf to that. After these mayors had been on the complaining wall for over a year, they had to end up threatening to shut down stations. In addition, you were subpoenaed as the competent minister. This has resulted in consultation and a number of new measures, but they still have to prove their worth; a final judgment will be reached on Monday. A measure is already known. From the Easter holiday onwards travellers who have a tourist destination, i.e. tourists, will be obliged to sit at the window. If they don't have a tourist destination, they can sit somewhere else. Then the corona virus is far less dangerous. What do you think of this measure? How will you enforce it? What guarantee can you, as the competent minister, give that conditions such as during the crocus holiday do not repeat themselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been fighting the pandemic for over a year now. It's hard for everyone. We all crave more freedom. Since the beginning of the pandemic, trains continue to drive workers who are unable to work telework to their jobs, to take students to school or to take ordinary citizens to the desired destination. I would like to express my thanks to the staff of SNCB for this. They have always ensured that trains continue to run, even in the depths of the crisis, with respect for health measures. SNCB has been taking various measures for months to ensure that everything is as safe as possible for everyone. The government also accepts its responsibility. In view of the fact that the virus is circulating more, of the evolution of the pandemic and of its impact on hospitals, the Consultation Committee took additional measures on Friday 19 March 2021 to avoid the crowds on trains with mainly a tourist destination, such as the coast. The measure referred to came at the request of the Coronac Commissioner. It enters on 3 April 2021 and runs until the end of April 2021; it does not apply on school days. My cabinet is in close contact with SNCB and with the cabinet of my colleague for the Interior, Mrs Verlinden, in order to work out the measure as well as possible. It is certainly not an easy measure to implement, certainly not for train escorts. We'll do our best. However, I would like to point out in particular that it is important that the train continues to run. That's crucial. After all, mobility means freedom, which I, as Minister for Mobility, am committed to. I want to defend that freedom as best I can for everyone, including anyone who wants to go to the coast for a day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, even though I find it strange. In the government statement and also in the discussion of your policy plan, you expressed the ambition to encourage more people to take the train. For that, you would make public transport more attractive. What have I seen since? SNCB first raised its prices. Then you had to go to the point of contact, and now you're gonna have to go to the bottom, because you're gonna have to ask travelers not to take the train to the sea. Maybe go back to the car? If they're gonna take the train, they're gonna have to sit at the window. This is completely contrary to the stated ambitions of your policy. Mr. Secretary, I almost feel sorry for you, and you stand there and you look at it, and from the Easter holidays you sit there, on the window, and you look at it. Flemish Interest calls on you no longer to undergo everything, but to accept your responsibility and finally to develop a concrete, efficient and vigorous train policy that guarantees the train traveller safe and comfortable public transport, including in these corona times.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u64	Mr. Minister of Finance, many workers are particularly concerned today. More than one million of them suffered temporary unemployment last year as a result of the Corona crisis, resulting in a substantial loss of their gross income of 44 per cent for an average wage. In addition, there is the problem of taxation. It is true that the government has reduced the occupational discount from 26 per cent to 15 per cent as a percentage of this temporary unemployment. So that's good news right now. However, it turns into bad news in the long run. Indeed, on the tax sheet, this temporary unemployment income will be aggregated with the wage. This is where "the painful" will be presented, Minister. According to FGTB figures, nearly 600,000 people will be affected by such a tax supplement, which can reach EUR 1,500. The solution is simple and consists of imitating the right bridge which is in a way the unemployment of the self-employed. In other words, this income is taxed separately, without including it in other resources. In this way, the worker on whom 15% is charged will not have to pay any additional tax on his temporary unemployment. When I asked you about this in committee, you told me that the government would notify. That's the same answer you gave the press. And then we see that the government finally decides to refuse such a tax exemption to these workers. In short, "the painful" will be presented to them! Minister, in the context of the Corona crisis, the government has provided billions. Why do you impose the double penalty on these workers: a loss of gross income and a tax supplement? How do you justify the difference in treatment between the bridge right, which is the unemployment of the self-employed, taxed separately, and the unemployment of the employees, which will be globalised with the other income?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u65	Mr Van Hees, the rate of the occupational discount on temporary unemployment benefits has been reduced from 26.75 % to 15 % from May 2020. The reduced professional discount was introduced at the beginning of the crisis in order to address the problem of low-income taxpayers, as reported by the media at the time. I would like to point out that the decision to move to a reduced professional discount has been adopted almost unanimously by Parliament. At the Commission meeting, as well as after, it was made clear that the reduction in the professional discount does not mean a reduction in the total tax. The professional discount is always charged against the total amount of tax owing, which means that it is therefore possible that the taxpayers concerned may pay a higher amount or recover a lower amount at the time of the enrolment of the tax return. It is therefore with full knowledge of the facts that Parliament has decided to proceed with the reduction of the professional discount. Mr Van Hees, you also refer to the calculations made by the Socialist trade union FGTB and published in the press recently. These calculations indicate that the taxpayers concerned should pay between EUR 1 000 and EUR 1 500 in additional taxes. I haven't seen these FGTB calculations, but the social secretariats have already done their own calculations. They achieve results completely different from those of the FGTB, especially for the lowest wages. I therefore regret that such erroneous information is being disseminated. This only causes unnecessary concern to the taxpayers concerned. To conclude my speech, I would like to stress once again that not all the taxpayers concerned will pay an additional tax to the PPI following the application of the measures taken at the professional discount level. In other words, this measure is therefore neutral in terms of overall taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u66	Minister, may I also ask you to be attentive to speaking time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u67	Minister, you're amazing! You're breaking open doors! Of course, everyone knows that the professional discount is an advance on the tax payable. Here, the question was clear: in view of the exceptional circumstances, how is it that you do not give employees the opportunity to avoid a tax bill this year or next year? That is the demand of the FGTB and all the workers concerned. How come you give tax gifts to multinationals through the replenishment reserve? You even give tax gifts to invest in shares. This is what we discussed in committee today but, on the other hand, people who have suffered a loss of income because they are temporarily unemployed will receive an additional tax bill. You don't take that into account. It's just amazing, Minister! I can't imagine it! Moreover, there is discrimination between unemployment for the self-employed – for whom they have the right to be taxed separately – and unemployment for the employees. Why this discrimination between them and employees? You don't answer that. In committee, you did not answer me on this point. Today, you don't answer either. You deny this discrimination. That's amazing, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u68	Minister, a few weeks ago you praised the European procurement policy of vaccines. I do not know if you would do that today, because after more than three months of vaccination campaign we have not yet vaccinated 10% of our population. Now we're facing a third lockdown, but we could have avoided it. Our 65-plussers could and should have been vaccinated. Where are we today? We have few vaccines and we do not know how much will be added and when it will happen. You have signed these contracts, although they have been forgotten, but you have not read them and you have not negotiated them. You do not even know where the vaccines are produced in Europe and how many they are. Yet that is your competence, your responsibility. You said we could even shoot you. Mr. Secretary, where will you get extra vaccines? Will you conclude new contracts with producers or other countries? Are you going to look in the Netherlands, in the "Dutch mystery factory" as The Financial Times calls them? That is where 5 million vaccines are produced each month, and you and Europe knew nothing about it. The 30 million vaccines ready to be sold in Italy can come from the Netherlands, but you do not know. In fact, that is as many as the number that Europe has received so far in order to vaccinate Europeans. This is pure amateurism. You received an offer from the SII, the Serum Institute of India, to purchase one and a half million vaccines from AstraZeneca, but you rejected it. Why did you do that? Why didn't you show leadership and send in an inspection team to see if we could use those vaccines here?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u69	Minister, testing and vaccination are the main weapons at our disposal to overcome the pandemic, restore our freedoms and enable everyone to emerge from sometimes dramatic situations in terms of physical and mental health, economic and social well-being. Let us acknowledge that the vaccination campaign is slow in most European countries. At the current rate, some say we could vaccinate until 2024 to cover the entire population. When it comes to vaccination, we have a moral and ethical obligation to be effective, effective and fast. Minister, what is the schedule for deliveries in the coming weeks and months? What is the current status of vaccine stocks? What actions will Belgium take at this afternoon's European summit to increase our supply and ensure compliance with production and delivery agreements? Finally, I recall the involvement of general practitioners in the vaccination strategy. She seems essential to me. Fragile people should be able to be vaccinated quickly by their treating physician. The option of creating a register of vulnerable people based on the transmission of health data by private insurers, often linked to political parties, does not seem to me to be the way forward. This system of convocation is also ineffective in terms of adherence to vaccination. The use of professional immunizers such as general practitioners and professional distributors such as pharmacists is a useful and necessary alternative, respecting individuals and their right to the protection of their privacy and personal health data. Minister, when and how are you going to get the pharmacist and the doctor more involved in the vaccination strategy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u70	Madam President, Minister, what is this vaccination strategy? Is there even a strategy? I'm starting to think that there's no strategy at all, some kind of wet fingering. According to Prime Minister De Croo, all 65-plussers would have been vaccinated by the end of May. Stop spreading such messages. Meanwhile, the smallest child knows that yet another deadline will not be met, not at this pace. The lead time remains too long, leaving almost 600,000 vaccines in the freezer today. I can't explain that anymore. As I prepared this statement, the message came in that the central system of reserve lists is slowing down. That too goes wrong. The turtle strategy of Belgium and the whole of the European Union not only causes more deaths, but also affects our economic and social recovery. If we continue to vaccinate at this rate, it will take until the end of 2022 to build up sufficient immunity. In the meantime, you and the rest of the government decide to close society once more, to encourage people to persevere. I can't explain that either. "Even" has been going on for a year. Perhaps you should include an explanatory dictionary in the next measure, so that people know what you mean by "keep up a bit." We constantly hear "we will switch, we will accelerate," but given the rate of vaccination we are vaccination today, I have great doubts about that. Minister, what about vaccination? Where's the strategy? Where's the real gear? When is it really going to be switched?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u71	Minister, yesterday the third lockdown was announced. All our freedoms and rights are once again on lockdown, even though there are means to combat the pandemic. I'm thinking testing, tracing and vaccinating. About a year ago, on 14 April, we discussed the PVDA-PTB resolution here in the Chamber asking not to patent the possible corona vaccine. At that time, colleagues said that we were far too early, that there would be voluntary cooperation. It was even said that we were thinking about doom because we would accuse the firms in advance of putting profits above health. Since you were Minister of Health, I have questioned you on several occasions. Each time you answer me that lifting patents is not the solution. Meanwhile, the clock is ticking and we're months away. What happened this week in the field of profit? A few million vaccines are in a hangar in Italy waiting for the highest bidder. There are parallel circuits. Vaccines are offered at a higher price, including to our country. It's clear today. The longer we wait, the longer we stay in the pandemic. The realm of freedom is in sight, but the problem is that we gave the keys to that empire to Big Pharma. Minister, what are you going to do in Belgium and what is Europe's position? The WHO recently discussed the lifting of patents at world level. What do we hear there? Both Europe and the US keep their hands above Big Pharma's head and block any progress. The Prime Minister has just said at the European Council that he will raise the issue of the production of vaccines, but he is actually talking about (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u72	Mrs Merckx, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u73	Madam President, the virus has been testing our stamina for over a year. It's testing our patience and our unity. We are now indeed in a race between a new and more contagious, more dangerous variant of the virus and the vaccinations. It is our responsibility, together with all of us, to reduce those infections and at the same time to ensure that the vaccination campaign succeeds. When I listen to you, Mrs Depoorter, I have the impression that the virus is also testing our sense of realism. You say you'd have vaccinated all 65-plussers. You would have. Would you have produced the vaccines in your pharmacy? What the hell is that? Where would you have gotten the millions and millions of vaccines that are currently coming from companies and being produced there? How would you have done that? When I hear you, I think that with Mrs. Depooster, people always vaccinate faster. I'd like to believe it. I also find it odd that you say that I could have bought 1.5 million doses of AstraZeneca in India. I did get an e-mail from someone who claimed that this could be done. The company AstraZeneca has said that this kind of offer is malicious. Do you think I should accept a crooked offer? Do you really think so? Are you serious? Do you think I should accept a crooked offer? We don't. We are working together at European level to provide the population with vaccines. I just want to tell you where we are. At the moment, we have given 12 percent of the adult Belgians a first dose, 5 percent has already been fully vaccinated. More than half of the 85-plussers received a first dose and a quarter was fully vaccinated. This is progressing. So I find it a little easy to say that we could find those vaccines to have vaccinated the whole group of 65-plussers right away. The problem we face is the same as the problem in other countries. Science has proved to be very strong, but companies are producing at the rhythm in which they are producing and, moreover, we share that annoyance with many countries and with the European Commission, some companies have made promises that they are indeed not fulfilling. So do not underestimate the pressure we are exerting, together with the European Commission, on a company like AstraZeneca to serve plain wine. I was asked what the delivery schedules are and I can give them. That's a lot of detailed numbers. For the rest of March, we expect this week to have already been supplied with 176.670 doses of Pfizer, usually 179.010 doses of Pfizer next week. From AstraZeneca we expect this week to be delivered 28,800 doses and we have promised 250,000 doses for the rest of March. From Moderna we expect 96,000 doses this week. In the month of April we expect Pfizer 1,074.000 doses, of Johnson & Johnson.............................................................................................................................................................................................. From AstraZeneca and Moderna I cannot say anything for the month of April. We have general commitments, but we know the problem for the second quarter. So I can give you a lot of detailed figures, but what we cannot do is produce vaccines ourselves in our kitchen. We cannot do that, and anyone who thinks this is possible must prove it. As regards the role of general practitioners and pharmacists, I refer, Mr Bacquelaine, to the debate we have had in committee. Medical organisations have been involved in all the preparation of the campaign, as part of the working groups that have worked within the Vaccination Task Force. General practitioners are also invited to communicate the identity of their vulnerable patients with co-morbidities in order to invite them collectively to be vaccinated. We discussed this issue yesterday. In our view, this is a good approach to speeding up. As I have already told you, in a later phase of the campaign, general practitioners may be called upon to play a more direct role. This is an eventuality that I do not exclude. By way of conclusion, know that yesterday morning, the Interdepartmental Conference of Ministers of Health decided to request a new opinion from the Higher Council of Health in order to know how the experts, the vaccinologists design the course of the campaign, after the vaccination phase of the elderly and patients with co-morbidity. This will provide an opportunity to reopen a debate on the prospects for specific groups in the context of the vaccination campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u74	Mr Minister, although you have exceeded your speaking time, I have allowed you to continue because the subject is of great importance, it seems to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u75	Minister, there's nothing worse than a professor preaching a science that isn't one. There are 2 million over 65s in our country. That factory in the Netherlands produces 5 million AstraZeneca vaccines per month. Flanders is ready to put a hundred thousand shots in the arm every day. Hundreds of thousands of vaccines are delivered per week. On twenty days in Flanders we can inoculate all those 65-plussers. Then, Minister, we would be working efficiently and preaching the realm of freedom. You ask me if I will make the vaccines in my pharmacy. You're pulling it a little into the ludicrous. Of course I won't make them in my pharmacy. But I'll find where to find them. As a leader, I'll find out if the vaccines in India can't be good. Because the paracetamol we're taking is from India. The pacemakers we implant are also from India. Then why not the vaccines?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u76	Mrs. Depoorter, telling people something in these circumstances is bad. We cannot buy bilaterally from AstraZeneca vaccines. That's contractually excluded, and it makes sense. We can only negotiate with AstraZeneca in the framework of the European contract. Ask yourself, instead of reflective people of something that isn't true. It's fundamentally unethical what you're doing. It is nonsense that we in the Netherlands could buy AstraZeneca vaccines. It's bullshit you're telling me!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u77	Minister, do you know what I think is unethical? That is a government that tells people that there is an effective vaccination campaign going on and that it is working. That is a government that is constantly hiding behind that European story, when when the contracts had to be concluded, they were not read, they were not looked at, they were not asked for results. You know as well as anyone that these contracts are based on legal quicksand. You know very well that you could show leadership by looking for yourself and negotiating for yourself. That is what you are expected to do, much more than sit here and talk to the European Commission after one year and do something. No, Minister, you are not right. SII is a subsidiary of AstraZeneca. You could have looked into whether those vaccines were effective and whether we could have gone ahead with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u78	Mr Minister, the period we are living in is, unfortunately, conducive to some habituations of a lack of fundamental principles. It is a problem that we all have to deal with, it seems to me. It seems to me that there is sometimes a certain banality of measures which are incompatible with the rules that we traditionally apply. The establishment of lists of vulnerable patients on the basis of information provided, without the knowledge of such persons and without their consent, by mutual societies and private bodies seems to me to be part of this kind of incompatible measures. When you have to deal with the summonses that people will receive because they are on vulnerable lists when they don't know, it will be very complicated. I warn you against that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u79	Mr. Secretary, you'll get angry, but not red. If I were in your place, I'd show a little shame. Not the population needs a lesson in humility, but the government does. Because of you, there were no mouth masks and too few tests. You forbade quick tests and self-tests. You had and have no plan. You lock society for the third time because you're making a mess of it. So stop kicking people's consciences, because they have been following your measures for a very good year. You referred the corona barometer to the trash can, but people's anger barometer is about to explode. Stop these bullying measures and do your job: testing, tracing and vaccinating.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u80	Minister, you are very keen when it comes to responding to certain Members of Parliament. Perhaps you'd better show your teeth when you're at the table with the pharmaceutical industry. However, I have not heard about this. You have repeated that the companies are doing what they can. That's not true, the vaccines are in a hangar, the highest bidder can get them. Only 43% of the current production capacity is used. You say we can't make vaccines in the kitchen, but nobody's asking. It requires high technology, which is also available in Belgium. GSK, for example, is such a big industrial player. Have you ever asked that company to produce the vaccines? Apparently, it's too much to ask to answer that question. Setting up production capacity takes two to six months. For a year now, and since you have been Minister, I have asked that question, but you have not answered it. I will also continue to ask questions about the lifting of patents, because it is the only solution to get rid of this pandemic worldwide. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u81	Mrs Merckx, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u82	Madam President, Minister, a few months ago you made a series of promises. In particular, you promised that INAMI would intervene in the cost of personal protective equipment for caregivers. All caregivers who do outpatient care are concerned, but also revalidation centres or medical homes, to name but a few examples. For the September to November 2020 tranche – already a short time – the premiums were planned for the month of March. And then, a few days ago, fell an update. I quote: "Concerning the protective equipment, since the Royal Decree relating to this period has not yet been published, the payments will therefore not take place by 31 March as planned." This royal decree is your job. Minister, do you confirm to me that you did not take this royal decree in time? Why and how do you justify this delay, the failure to take this royal decree? If that is the case, I find that this again marks a lack of respect for the women and men who, for a year now, have been at the front to fight covid. You know how much personal protection equipment is the only weapon they have long been able to protect themselves, who have been particularly affected, with a seven-fold greater risk than the general population of being affected by the virus. I'm waiting for your explanation, and so are they. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u83	Ms. Fonck, we have defined three periods for this financial intervention in support of caregivers. The first took place from early May to the end of August 2020, and its payment was executed. The second phase began in early September and ended at the end of November. The original target was to pay by the end of March, but you are right to say that this date will not be met. The information was shared with health care providers at the March 15 Health Care Committee and will be explained in more detail next Monday. The reason for the delay is a negative opinion of the Finance Inspectorate about the Royal Decree. My services have analysed this negative opinion in depth and provided the necessary arguments to ensure that we can provide financial assistance to health-care providers, as this is a real priority. The case was then forwarded last week to the Secretary of State for the Budget. The urgency will be invoked for this measure, so that it will be possible to depart from the usual procedure with regard to the opinion of the Council of State, so that the royal decree can be published in the very short term. This will normally allow us to execute the payment in April. I would point out that we did not wish to do so without a regulatory basis, in order to avoid problems for the health care providers themselves. In short, the delay is real, but we think we can say that the payment will be honoured in April.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u84	Minister, I must admit that I am still rather puzzled by your explanation, for a twofold reason. The first was that there had already been a royal decree for the previous period which dealt with exactly the same subject, with exactly the same intervention in relation to the personal protective equipment on the cost. There is therefore no justification today that all of a sudden the moon is discovered even though the decree already existed. There's a second reason. Excuse me, but it covered the period from September to November. It's four months later. It took you four months to take a royal order, to go to the Finance Inspectorate, to find out that the Finance Inspectorate was supposedly not in agreement and to possibly correct and/or legally validate this royal order. In short, all this is very nice, but what I see is that, in relation to your commitment, it poses a real problem with regard to the political credibility and respect for the promises of this government. On the other hand, I find that this is a question that once again undermines trust and respect for caregivers. Really, I regret it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u85	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u86	By letter of 21 January 2021, the chairman of the sp.a.m. group announced the change of name of his party as of 21 March 2021. By letter dated 21 January 2021, the Chairman of the sp.a. Group notified a change in the name of its Party with effect from 21 March 2021. From then on, the party will no longer be called "sp.a." But Vooruit. So the party is no longer called "sp.a" but "Go ahead."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u87	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 March 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 March 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u88	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u89	Madam President, I will report briefly on the work and, if you will allow me, immediately add why our group will soon be supporting the draft law. In the committee, Minister Van Quickenborne, who is responsible for the North Sea, explained the draft. The basis of the draft is the UNESCO Convention for the Protection of Cultural Heritage Under Water. In Belgium, the treaty was given a first legal follow-up in 2013. This law will make that follow-up more complete. The Minister explained the amendments and the provisions contained in the new law. The draft law shall take into account the opinion of the Council of State on the area covered by the present legislation. During the discussion, three members made a presentation to express their appreciation for the draft law, in particular Mr Kurt Ravyts of the Flemish Interest, Mrs Kim Buyst of Ecolo-Groen and myself on behalf of the then sp.a. Mrs Verhaert also explained, in particular, an amendment aimed at extending the law to fossils of, for example, mammoths and mountain elephants, which could also be found in the North Sea. Finally, Mr Raskin asked a question about cooperation with, among other things, the regions. The Minister replied to that question by referring to a protocol between the governor of the province of West Flanders, the DG Scheepvaart, the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences, the VLIZ and Onroerend Erfgoed Vlaanderen. After the discussion, the draft law, including Mrs Verhaert's amendment, was unanimously approved by the committee. Madam President, I would like to conclude my report. I would now like to explain on behalf of our group, if you will allow me, how we have looked at the draft. Of course, the draft law has its history in the UNESCO Convention, which dates back some time. In two steps we come here today with a law which, in our opinion, is quite extensive and applies to everything that is underwater in our North Sea. Today it is mainly about the artifacts that have been around for over a hundred years. As a result of enlargement, you will of course understand that a number of shipwrecks linked to the First World War, which has been behind us for over a century, are automatically covered by this protection. Because of the specific nature of the wrecks that lie there and also because they sometimes perish depending on the nature and the building materials, it is important to provide this protection. It is estimated that in our North Sea there are some 280 wrecks of mainly ships but also of aircraft from 17 different countries. Two thirds of the wrecks are linked to the First and Second World Wars. Why are these important artifacts? That is because, well described, it is small time capsules that are packed by the conditions, being the amount of water that is around it and the conditions at the bottom, and which give an interesting cultural-historical view of the construction of those ships and the technology that was used at the time. The draft law protects them against, among other things, certain types of fishing such as tug fishing, dredging and other activities at sea. This prolongs the lifespan of those capsules. For us there are a few other reasons why we can support this bill. Many of these wrecks form a seaman's grave. It fits our civilisation and society that we have respect for that. That's what we're taking with us. In addition, it is striking that many of these shipwrecks today form small ecological zones that even serve as a shelter or nursery for animals. I am also aware that these shipwrecks will not save biodiversity in the North Sea. However, this finding provides an additional justification for that protection and for the use of more stringent protection. Finally, the soil of the North Sea is, for various reasons, a fairly bare soil. These wrecks are interesting locations for divers and diver tourism. For all these reasons, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats wishes to express its support for this draft law. I would also like to thank all the scientific institutions that have enabled us to map these artifacts properly for their work. A great deal of scientific research has been done on this. Their work will also ensure that investors who want to plan windmills in the North Sea, for example, will soon have less chance of being unexpectedly confronted with such a shipwreck. We shall therefore be supporting this bill in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u90	Madam President, Minister, the Law of 4 April 2014 and the Royal Decree of 25 April 2014 implemented the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Cultural Heritage Underwater. However, it was soon recognised that this legislation, which provided a first protective framework, still had a number of gaps. A research and study carried out by Ghent University in collaboration with other scientific institutions lists a number of recommendations to adapt the legislation to ensure an improvement and extension of the protection of cultural heritage under water. The Council of Ministers of 21 September 2018 which was still under the Michel Government, approved, on a proposal from your predecessor, a preliminary draft that took into account a number of recommendations. The other recommendations would in turn form part of a cooperation agreement to be concluded between the federal and regional departments concerned. However, when the government went into current affairs, the dossier got into the background, but now, in accordance with your policy paper, this is being made a priority. That is a good thing. For example, everything that has been underwater for more than 100 years and meets the definition will now automatically be recognised as an underwater heritage, but there is also a redefining of what is understood by wrecks, given the fact that in Belgian territorial waters there are also more recently sunken ships, for example, due to events during the Second World War. From now on, these wrecks or wrecks will also be considered as cultural heritage underwater, and that is also a good thing. A number of important changes have been made with regard to aspects of ownership rights. Where under the previous law the Belgian State automatically became owner, the present bill provides that the owner shall retain the right of ownership at the time of sinking. If the owner is not known, the discoverer becomes owner, but fortunately there remains a right to purchase museums and public institutions by means of an implementing act, because we cannot expect valuable documents to disappear in private archives. A number of other recommendations will be implemented through the cooperation agreement I have already mentioned. The draft law therefore seeks to provide greater protection, but without prejudice to the principle of multiple use of space. Minister, given the limited size of Belgian territorial waters, this is an inevitable principle. Moreover, it is becoming a bit crowded in our territorial waters. I agree that the principle of multiple use of space can lead to nothing other than the proverbial wiping and weighing of harmful protection. After all, there is also an economic and ecological reality. You rightly cited in the explanatory statement the example of the discovery of a historic wreck in the canal to a port. The protection measures that have an impact on other activities at sea therefore require the advice of the advisory committee active in relation to the Marine Environment Protection Act and the Marine Spatial Plan. In the last year 55 shipwrecks over 100 years old were thoroughly investigated in the Belgian part of the North Sea. This fits in with the European trend of appreciation of research by maritime archaeologists. Only 11 of the 280 shipwrecks registered in the Belgian part of the North Sea are currently recognised as cultural heritage underwater. For the construction of the Nemo Link, the submarine high-voltage cable to the United Kingdom, which has been in use since January 2019, a survey corridor of about 100 meters wide has been investigated. For example, many aircraft parts were discovered. Of the 280 wrecks in the Belgian section, two thirds date from the First and Second World Wars. They are mainly fishing vessels from 17 different countries. Some of these ships were once sunk down or deliberately collapsed, some of them collapsed, and some of them consist of seaman's graves from the world wars. One example of this is HMS Wakeful, a British destroyer who sank during the evacuation of Dunkirk in May 1940, sufficiently known as Operation Dynamo, filmed not so long ago. The site is located in the Belgian territorial sea and when sinking more than 700 people lost their lives. The question of the seaman's graves is very sensitive to the British, but also to the Germans. They're manifesting against salvage. For them, only if a wreck represents a danger to shipping, under very specific conditions, can it be disposed of or rather relocated. I also refer to the UB-29, a submarine of the German Kriegsmarine. The submarine wreck of the UB-29 was recognized as heritage by your predecessor two and a half years ago, shortly after its discovery. On board, the scientists found the remains of 23 crew members. The German government then demanded that the seaman's grave remain where it was and that the crew remain there. Mr. Secretary, why am I saying all this? I know that you want to take the opportunity to promote wreck diving as well, involving the diving sector. We are not a priori opposed to this, but let us proceed with caution and respect when it comes to seaman's graves. For example, in the British, it is strictly forbidden to dive above war graves to shipwrecks and aircraft wrecks. I would like to point out that in the recognition as a cultural heritage of the almost intact German submarine UB-29 in 2018, the exact location of the wreck was not disclosed to keep adventurers and looters away. Minister, it is undeniable that shipwrecks not only provide a good picture of the culture and technology of the past centuries, but also provide shelter for different species of fauna and flora that contribute to biodiversity. The automation of the heritage is becoming a major feature of the underwater environment for more than 100 years. It is therefore right that you want to publicise the new rules. That will happen with a campaign on the secrets of the North Sea, which should start this summer. The research reports will be available online. In any case, protection is not insignificant, because without permission no work or dredging can be carried out in the vicinity of the site, and specific protection measures can also be imposed. Mr Minister, anyone who will undoubtedly be satisfied with this draft law on protection is the now well-known flamboyant governor of my province, West Flanders. The man is a fervent lover of the marine given. When he received a new task as a recipient of underwater cultural heritage from 1 June 2014, he was very proud with his hotline function, registration function and advisory function for the North Sea Minister. However, the governor is more than just a handover to the administration, because I read in Article 7 of your bill that the governor must draw up an investigation report indicating the importance of the site and the possible measures that can be taken. Perhaps the Flemish Institute for the Sea will be explicitly looked at. He is, by the way, the chairman of this institution. At the same time, there is the possibility for you not to wait for an investigation report from the governor to protect the site if there are sufficient and urgent reasons. You can always take individual protection measures. Hopefully, the four partners of the Maritime Information Crossroads, including Customs and Excise, but also especially the Maritime Police and the Directorate-General for Shipping at the FPS Mobility and Transport, will effectively monitor. It will also be monitored from the air, via the same type of MUMM aircraft that controls emissions on ships. You were still a guest in January. We will approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, I would like to thank you for your comments and for the good work that has been done in committee. This draft law and its work are a good example of how good cooperation is possible in our country. First of all, I would like to refer to the governor of West Flanders. Not only does he have a personal interest in this dossier, but he is of course still a recipient of the documents and deals with them. You can read that in the bill. There was also cooperation with the Flemish Region. I refer to the Flemish Institute for the Sea, and in particular Mr Van Haelst, who is responsible for the preparation of the research reports. Those reports will also be available on the Internet and testify to a very great knowledge and skill of all of this. I would also like to thank DG Scheepvaart, who was responsible for the drafting of the legislation and, in future, for the coordination of the cooperation agreement and the implementing decisions. I would also like to thank Onroerend Erfgoed Vlaanderen for the expertise they show over and over again when it comes to estimating the value of the various wreckage pieces. I would also like to thank the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences for the expertise they have provided in relation to fossils. You have seen that, by means of an amendment by Mrs Verhaert, we have extended the subject of heritage protection to fossils. An important fossil has recently been discovered that we will soon give up. Finally, I would also like to thank the divers. Wracks are important places for diving, with respect for the heritage but also for the seaman's graves, Mr Ravyts. I would like to express a special thank you to the people of GUE Divers, who have vouched for making the 3D model. So that's a lot of partners who have worked together and will still work together. This is an incredibly exciting matter for which a lot of people are interested. With this travelling exhibition we hope to be able to show our people the many treasures our Belgian North Sea houses. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your support for the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u92	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u93	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1794/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1794/4) The title in French has been amended by the commission in "draft law on the implementation of the UNESCO Convention of 2 November 2001 on the protection of underwater cultural heritage and the protection of valuable wrecks". Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "Bill on the implementation of the UNESCO Convention of 2 November 2001 on the protection of underwater cultural heritage and the protection of valuable wrecks". The bill has 25 clauses. The draft law has 25 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u94	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u95	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Vandenbroucke, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u96	Mr Minister, first of all I would like to apologise to Mr Loones, who has followed up on this dossier. As you know, he has spoken on this subject in a very thorough manner in the committee, but he is currently giving a guest lecture, as long as it is allowed. He made quick use of it, but this aside. This draft law is a rigorous transposition of the VAT Directive on e-commerce. It builds on the so-called MOSS system, designed for telecommunications services, broadcasting services and electronically supplied services to private individuals, the so-called TBE services, in order to avoid the need for VAT payers to register in each European Member State and also submit VAT returns there. In a first phase, this only existed for non-EU providers, but later it was extended to EU providers. MOSS is now OSS and IOSS, extended to all services and also the sale of goods via an electronic platform. Instead of requiring VAT payers to register in each EU Member State, they may also register with a separate VAT identification number for separate OSS and IOSS declarations. The art of recording is therefore actually replaced by the art to know in which declaration which act should be reported. The problem for the European Union is that the 27 Member States cannot agree to use the same VAT return form in all Member States for all VAT transactions. However, it would be a great administrative simplification for businesses if this form were to be the same throughout the European Union, quod non. Nor can we get the impression that the major EU platforms have lobbied well on this issue. The OSS and the IOSS declarations are indeed tailored. For a small Belgian company, it will be a challenge to start up via a web store and sell products in the other EU Member States. The threshold for distance selling in Belgium, 35.000 euros, is no longer calculated per country, but it is communitized and significantly reduced. From EUR 10,000 turnover to distance sales and TBE services, the VAT of the other Member State will have to be charged. There are some risks to this, as we pointed out during the discussion in committee. The application of the correct VAT rate in 27 EU Member States may seem simple, but appearances are, of course, deceptive. If the SMEs are wrong, they risk not only high fines, but also court cases in one of the 27 European Member States. Anyone who is not powerful, has no contacts or is not familiar with the procedures is in danger of getting into trouble. Allow me to give an example of the dispute over the application of the reduced VAT rate. I remember a discussion on the application of the reduced VAT rate of 6% for soya milk. Those who called the administration received an answer that soy milk is subject to the standard rate of 21%, as it is not milk of animal origin. Months later, the Council of State decided that soya milk is subject to the reduced VAT rate of 6%, as it falls under the category of other foods. With this example, I would just like to show that the whole of VAT legislation is extremely complex. If an SME charges too much VAT, it is not competitive, but the SME that charges too little VAT risks tearing up its proverbial VAT pants. Moreover, as shown by the Minister's detailed reply to Mr Loones' question, not all distance sales fall within the OSS system. Despite the One Stop Shop, individual registration in the other EU Member States is not excluded. So the one stop is actually a stop that does not complete the obligation to register in the other Member States. At the same time, with the introduction of IOSS, the VAT exemption on imports of goods below 22 euros will be abolished. Moreover, when purchasing a parcel via an e-platform, imports will be exempted and the e-platform will have to charge VAT on delivery. The abolition of the VAT exemption under 22 euros will give the Treasury, as you mentioned in the committee, just over 250 million euros of additional VAT revenue. That's not nothing, that's a lot. If the consumer still has to pay VAT, Mr Loones wondered whether you could confirm that the abolition of the exemption would no longer allow the consumer to incur unpleasant additional costs. A few days ago we read the story of young Matteo in The Belang van Limburg. He had a good search and found a good price for a soccer sweater. He could tap this sweater over the internet for 50 euros in the United States. However, when he went to pick up his package from bpost, he had to pay an additional 40 euro fees. A good buy is going to be a very expensive buy. In this context, you replied to a question from Mr Loones in committee: "The services of the European Commission expect most operators to apply the import regime spontaneously within the OSS system, so that there will be no unpleasant surprises for the customer, as he will know how much the total purchase price will be." Let's hope so. The use of the OSS system concerns goods already imported into the EU and sold to consumers in the EU by a non-EU company. Of course, that's not the situation from the example I mentioned of Matteo's package. He bought a package that still had to be imported. The additional costs he then had to pay were not only the VAT but above all the costs charged by the carrier to clear the package. We believe that these unexpected costs will still be avoided, although you hope that this will not be the case, and that they will increase even more when the threshold of EUR 22 is removed. Because what is regarded as unfair competition for local businesses will be paid by the consumer in full. Finally, in his speech in committee, Mr Loones made a link between VAT legislation on the one hand and migration policy on the other. The European Union must monitor its external borders, which will allow immigration to be controlled, but it must also do so with regard to the import of goods. We believe that it is a capital mistake not to charge import-VAT in the case of e-commerce when neither the seller nor the e-platform is established in the EU. Fortunately, the draft law does provide that a liable VAT representative should be appointed when registering in Belgium. However, the new IOSS system allows these companies to register in the EU Member State where they will find the least resistance, and we believe that this will open the door to possible fraud. Minister, despite the fact that the draft law is a faithful transposition of the VAT directive on electronic commerce and the directive on distance selling and certain foreign supplies, we will nevertheless abstain from voting on this draft for the reasons I have just mentioned. In fact, it should be sent back to the European drawing board. I am quite free to refer in this context to what you said: the European Commission is obviously already aware of it and has already announced itself that it will perhaps put forward a proposal next year, both to adapt a number of basic principles and to eliminate some inconsistencies. Minister, I hope that you, as Minister, will be able to keep the European Commission and the representatives of the European Member States in mind and that you will take the basic principles of VAT as a starting point again and will also retain them in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u97	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft bill before us aims to transpose two European VAT directives on electronic commerce into Belgian law. The first directive was a response to the unmistakably explosive growth of electronic commerce. Certainly in corona times it is clear that electronic commerce is taking a second flight. The positive thing about the directive is that it puts an end to the obvious disadvantage for European companies compared to non-European companies, which can legally and without administrative burden deliver VAT-free in the European Union. Non-European companies therefore have a clear competitive advantage, which I have always experienced as importers and traders. The Directive also aims to increase Member States' VAT revenues and reduce administrative costs for businesses. That's a good thing. However, it is negative that the Directive entails further harmonisation of the VAT rules. Fiscal powers, such as VAT, are, for us, an unconditional part of the competence of the Member States. The existing VAT exemption on the import of small consignments was already mentioned by Mr Van der Donkt on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. This means that small consignments will also be taxed in future. The second Directive lays down a number of additional rules. It is a very technical matter. It is also a turf of a few hundred pages, which is to be voted on today. As a Flemish party, we are particularly concerned about the burden that the bill will entail for the many SMEs that Flanders is rich. For the many web stores, the draft law will be quite a challenge. By removing the minimum VAT thresholds, every sale via a webshop will now be subject to a different VAT rate from Belgian VAT to a foreign customer. It is the responsibility of the webshop to charge the correct VAT rate each time, while the fines for infringements of this may be very high. In addition, web stores are also obliged to display the correct price, including VAT, on the screen. Web stores that are accessible to customers in other European countries should therefore always show the correct VAT rate according to their location on the web page. Given the not too underestimated impact on the many SMEs that have a web store at home and abroad, we call on the government to inform and support our SMEs in the introduction of the new VAT rules. The Flemish interest is therefore not undivided in favour of this draft law. We have also been cautious about the large impact on our SMEs. So we will abstain. We also call on the government once again to work on the sensitisation of the many web stores, which our country is now rich.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u98	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill transposes two European directives on VAT on distance selling. This is particularly relevant for online sales platforms. Overall, we agree with this transposition, which we will support. Indeed, this bill is in the right direction as it will undoubtedly lead to a simplification that will be useful for small businesses. This will put an end to situations of unfair competition between small businesses and digital platforms. This could also make it possible – in any case, it is hoped – to counter a avoidance or even a VAT fraud that takes place in the context of these online activities. That does not prevent us from formulating certain reservations. However, before I get to the heart of the matter, I would like to touch on one particular aspect, that of the public consultation that was organised – if I understood what was said in committee – at the initiative of the minister. This public consultation of submitting this legislative initiative to the public was, in itself, a very good way to proceed. Unfortunately, it was not a huge success, which I noted in committee. The Minister of Finance was a little offended by my remarks. I quote the report in order not to betray its words: "The Deputy Prime Minister disagrees with Mr. Van Hees, who give the impression that the outcome of this public consultation would not be sufficiently representative due to the small number of participants." Minister, however, agree that for a country with 11 million inhabitants and more than 1 million businesses, the number of responses that have been given in this public consultation is not important. Indeed, there were only 15 responses from consulting firms, businesses or citizens. Admit it's not huge! Beyond that, of course, my point was not to say that it was a bad idea to do this kind of consultation. That's the opposite! I encourage you to persevere in this direction. But I invite you to think about how to proceed, to have more answers in the future. I think it will be more credible if you have more than 15 contributions in total and for everything, for the entire population of the country. Let's go to the content. The bill includes an important simplification component of which there is no doubt of interest. It also includes two flagship measures. This is the repeal of the VAT exemption for imports of less than EUR 22 and the fact that the platforms themselves will have to pay VAT. These measures should allow, as I said, to combat a form of VAT fraud, to recover VAT revenue that is currently lost and to put an end to unfair competition between those who are subject to VAT and those who can sell without having to ask for it. To give an order of magnitude, in France, the General Inspectorate of Finance conducted a survey in 2019. This survey shows the extent of the phenomenon: out of 24,459 checks (about 25,000), only 538 revealed a situation in good standing. It's a very small proportion of course. The transposition of this directive must put an end to this abnormal situation. I'll still put up two reserves. The first concerns the control which will be carried out when the law comes into force on 1 July 2021. So we're here soon. But it takes the means to control whether the law is properly followed. And there, the deadline is much longer since the provisions on the retention and transmission of data – and therefore on the collection and control of declarations of payment to VAT – will only come into force on 1 January 2024. Between the coming into force of the Act on 1 January 2021 and the implementation of the control measures on 1 January 2024, we obviously have a very long period of time, and we wonder if it could not have been shortened. Again in the area of control, a question arises in relation to this new task, this new provision in addition to all the tasks already assigned to the Finance FPS. Is FPS Finance staff adequately provided to deal with it? The hundreds or even thousands of jobs that you are going to eliminate in this Parliament in the FPS Finance, Minister, do not give me the impression of making things right. You said proudly when you arrived as Minister of Finance that you wanted a FPS Finance as thin as possible. I have the impression that it is not with a Finance FPS as thin as possible that such tasks will be successfully carried out. The second reserve, which is no less important, is to know who will pay. The amounts are not insignificant. In the 2021 budget, EUR 125 million is announced in revenue as a result of the transposition of this directive. This amount more than doubled in subsequent years, reaching $250 million in 2022, $260 million in 2023 and $270 million in 2024. It is a cruise rate of 270 million euros per year of additional VAT revenue. Who will pay these €270 million in additional VAT revenue? It is quite clear: in terms of VAT, it is always the final consumer who pays. Companies are only acting as intermediaries to bring VAT into state funds. We therefore have new VAT revenues, more healthy competition between small players and platforms. This good news hides a worse news: 270 million more taxes for the population. It is the most unfair taxes that are because it is known that taxes on consumption such as VAT or excise taxes are proportionally higher on low incomes than on high incomes, since low incomes consume the bulk of their income. You could have compensated this good measure from the point of view of competition and the fight against fraud by reducing other VAT. For example, you could have reduced the VAT on energy to 6%. It was a PTB proposal but the majority voted against it. On the contrary, the majority of this government will seek tax revenues from these taxes on consumption, the most unjust taxes that are. Behind a measure which, in itself, is good, we make important reservations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u99	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u100	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1820/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1820/3) The title in French has been amended by the commission in "Bill amending the Code of Value Added Tax with regard to the regime applicable to distance sales of goods and certain supplies of goods and services". Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "Bill amending the Value Added Tax Code as regards the regime applicable to distance sales of goods and certain supplies of goods and services". The bill has 27 articles. The draft law has 27 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u101	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u102	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u103	Colleagues, the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities discussed this draft law, which received urgency last week, at the meeting of 23 March 2021. The Minister refers in his introduction to the explanatory memorandum of the draft law. In the general discussion, Ms Kathleen Depoorter of the N-VA referred to the speed at which work was carried out. The speaker expressed her support for the draft law. It is of the utmost importance that the vaccination campaign be continued. Nevertheless, it wishes to draw attention to a number of points and asks a number of questions in response to the opinion of the Data Protection Authority. Mrs Barbara Creemers of Ecolo-Groen stated that the Minister had already answered a number of questions which she herself had to answer. It is a great concern for everyone that people's privacy is respected as well as possible in the monitoring and recording of data. It also states that the comments of the GBA were taken into account. Finally, Mrs Creemers wishes to know the timing of the adoption of the cooperation agreement. Mr Patrick Prévot of the PS is aware of the urgency. Nevertheless, he considered it necessary to remain vigilant when it comes to protecting citizens' medical records. The purpose of data processing must always be proportionate. The speaker also wished to receive a number of clarifications from the Minister. Mrs Dominiek Sneppe van het Vlaams Belang understands that vaccination data are being kept and that this must be done in accordance with the rules of privacy and with the necessary data protection. It is good that an opinion was requested from the GBA and the Council of State. However, the speaker noted that the GBA's opinion was not followed very much. It is therefore asking the Minister a number of questions about this. Mr Daniel Bacquelaine of the MR does not share the Minister's view on the organisation of the vaccination campaign. He believes that vulnerable people and people with poor health could have been better vaccinated in the circuit of pharmacists and general practitioners. According to him, that happens in a number of hospitals. The speaker found the arguments put forward not to vaccinate pharmacists and general practitioners to be unbelievable. However, he does not wish to fight back on this issue. The speaker also referred to the development of a register for vulnerable people in our country. He has fundamental difficulties in creating such a register of vulnerable persons. Mr Nawal Farih of CD&V stated that there was good consultation with the regions and that she would support the present draft law. I myself indicated that it is essential that vaccination is properly organised and that there is a need for a legal framework that will manage data processing. I believe that the draft law contains proportionate measures. Provision is also made for the provision of data to research institutions, where necessary for scientific or statistical research, without violating privacy. Mr Jiroflée van Vooruit called for the draft law to be adopted quickly. It stated that it provides a solid basis for a series of actions to be undertaken in these times of crisis. It also considers that the objectives of the draft law are clearly defined and defined and that citizens' rights are safeguarded. She was also pleased that a sounding board group was being used, which led to experts holding the pen when writing the text. Mr Catherine Fonck of cdH noted that an MR minister co-signed the cooperation agreement. According to her, the vaccination strategy is delayed and she's failing. She expressed a number of concerns and shared some analyses. She also asked questions about the method used by the sickness funds to detect patients at risk. She pointed out that the cooperation agreement provided for the possibility of crossing data with other databases. She asked the Minister what other existing databases were involved. Mr Sophie Rohonyi of DéFI acknowledged the urgent need for a legal basis for the vaccination campaign, both for invitations and for the registration of vaccinations. However, she reiterated that the strategy chosen by the Minister was not the most efficient. According to her, it would have been better to vaccinate by age group and to have the patients at risk inoculated by the general practitioners, as suggested by, among other things, BVAS. She asked whether the content of the cooperation agreement was being discussed with the general practitioners, nurses and pharmacists. She also remained concerned about the lack of legal certainty and transparency in the draft law. Finally, Mr Warmoes of PVDA-PTB stressed that his group could only welcome and encourage the correct and efficient exchange of data to combat the virus. However, his group questioned the usefulness of keeping some data. In view of the many uncertainties in this area in the cooperation agreement, his group would abstain in the vote. The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health stated in his reply, first of all, that the cooperation agreement relates only to the vaccination campaign and the fight against COOVID-19 and that the data should not be used for other purposes. He replied to the questions and concerns put by Members. He also confirmed that there were certain differences of opinion between the associations. He also indicated that the purposes, the retention period, the categories of the processed data and the controllers for the two databases are clearly described, as required by the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). In his view, it is not possible to pre-empt all possible priority persons by letter asking for their consent to be included in the database. That would greatly reduce the efficiency of the campaign. Moreover, it is legally permitted to include persons in a database only with a code indicating their priority status, but which does not provide further information on the precise condition they suffer from. In his view, therefore, there can be no mention of a register of vulnerable persons. The Minister also understands that certain members are concerned about the risk of discrimination linked to being vaccinated or not, but recalls that the use of personal data should be in accordance with Article 48 of the European Convention on Human Rights, the Constitution and the Law of 10 May 2007 on combating certain forms of discrimination. The data protection impact assessment was carried out and a summary of it is available. In the light of all this, the Minister may argue that he has followed the advice of the GBA as far as possible, but he also wants to create a sufficiently flexible framework that allows for a smooth implementation of the campaign, together with sufficient measures to ensure maximum privacy. The timing of the adoption of the cooperation agreement is also well respected. It is not intended to invite persons with comorbidities before the cooperation agreement is in force. The Minister expects the invitations to be sent from 2 April 2021. In conclusion, the Minister thanked the members for their comments and criticisms. In his view, the vaccination campaign and the fight against COOVID-19 constitute an unprecedented operation and an exceptional crisis, and it is good that a debate is taking place on this issue. Mr Bacquelaine still found it unheard of that sickness funds could pass on the information of their members without their prior consent. After all, it is quite possible that certain Members do not want that at all. He asked the Minister to issue directives to the sickness funds, on which the Minister reiterated that the procedure was not illegal and that it did not seem to him to be effective to send one and a half million more letters in order to ask those persons first for permission to be included in the database. He feared that there might be even more risk of stigmatisation of vulnerable people if they were also sent a separate letter. The Minister does say that he will think about the practical effects of the question. Mr Bacquelaine remains of the opinion that communication is better done in a more discreet way, e.g. by e-mail. The two articles were voted on. Article 1 was adopted unanimously. No comments were made on Article 2. This Rule was adopted with 14 votes in favour and one abstention. The draft law as a whole was adopted with 14 votes in favour and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u104	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the oral report, which reflects the debate and also highlights the points of pain, particularly the fact that this has to be done very quickly, when my group stated quite clearly from May last year that we had to prepare the vaccination strategy to the point and that we had to get to work on the practical, logistical and legal aspects of this organisation. Today, it appears that we still have to put this law to the vote, while we have been working for 3.5 months on a strategy of vaccination, albeit in a weak state. We don't get vaccines, but we've already started anyway. It is a very painful point that the federal government came to terms with this very late. Also typical is the discussion about the register with vulnerable persons and the professional secrecy that is or is not respected. The honourable Member has also referred to the fact that the people on that list naturally meet the profile established by the High Health Council. By definition, one knows what possible condition or conditions a person on that list may suffer from. The fact that the Minister still has to say today how he can deal with this and how he can optimise it means that there are still areas of work and that the concerns are not entirely unwise. The honourable Member has referred to it, and we have indeed made a number of comments and concerns. Many of them have been answered, but the retention period, 30 years after vaccination, remains very long. A pseudonymization is needed. I keep emphasising that. The data can be used for scientific and statistical purposes, but no longer for operational purposes, when we talk about such a long term. The electronic access of citizens to personal data will be fine, but my group would like to point out once again that it needs to be seen much wider and that citizens have a much greater right to information and access to the data stored by the public authorities. There was an answer for the discrimination ratio, but it remains a focus. As Members of Parliament, we will certainly have to ensure that vaccination or not can lead to no discrimination. The bottomline remains that we will support this draft because it is necessary, because we have to work together in vaccination and because we have been waiting long enough for the vaccine, the return to normal life and the reopening of our society. However, it could have been better and a little more careful could have been done about the data protection of citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u105	There is no doubt that vaccination data should be kept; that this should be properly regulated, with respect for the privacy and protection of this data as well. It is therefore good that the advice was requested from the GBA and the Council of State. I still regret that little action has been taken. The Flemish Interest Group has therefore asked the necessary critical questions in committee to ensure that the storage and processing of health data takes place with respect for privacy and that the data could not be used for other purposes. Why, for example, is the global medical record not used? How far can health insurance funds go in passing on information? The Data Protection Authority speaks of a blank cheque. Those are just a few questions from the comments and questions that we have put in committee and which we certainly want to quote again here to show that our vote in favour is indeed a critical one. So it's a "yes, but." The Minister himself talked about the speed at which everything must be done. We are aware that this cooperation agreement must be concluded as soon as possible. It should have been there by now. After all, this vaccination was to be expected. We knew it was coming and yet we are not ready again and a document that is important must be pushed through quickly. That too is not working out as it should. Too bad it has to be done this way, too. In the meantime, we've gotten used to that after a year of blundering and blundering. We can add that to the list. The Flemish Interest will vote in favour of the necessary critical questions and comments because we understand the urgency of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u106	Madam President, I am a little surprised not to see Minister Vandenbroucke. Is that normal, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u107	The government is represented.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u108	Since this is data processing, the Secretary of State is present. Madam President, Secretary of State, in its text published on July 16, 2020, the Higher Council of Health gives an initial opinion on the vaccination strategy which clearly states that the target groups are health workers, people over the age of 65 and people with co-morbidities between the ages of 45 and 65 (obesity, diabetes, hypertension). It is nevertheless surprising that it is only today, March 25, 2021, that we are voting on the cooperation agreement that allows the exchange of data. Indeed, we knew, since 16 July 2020, that we should identify those at risk, that it was important to do so and that this would require the exchange of data. We therefore regret that this text comes so late and needs to be voted on as a matter of urgency. We haven't anticipated. As a result, it must be voted quickly. I now turn to the content. I would like to stress that our party considers it important to encourage the correct and efficient exchange of data to combat the virus. This will allow us to monitor the vaccination rate, to detect the side effects of the vaccine and to allow vaccinations to proceed in order of priority, drawn up in the interests of public health. However, we note that a large part of the population is right to ask questions about what will happen to the data. Citizens have the right to transparency and it is the responsibility of the government to ensure the proper use of the data. We have a great deal of concern about reading this cooperation agreement just in this area. We agree that the exchange of information is important. However, we must not lose sight of the principles of data collection. The cooperation agreement hardly defines or does not define which specific data will be used for which specific purposes, and which specific persons or bodies will gain insight into them. We believe that the data collection and distribution should be structured according to finality. A specific objective must be achieved by a specific person or body having access to a specific part of the data. At the committee meeting, Minister Vandenbroucke indicated that the ultimate goal is to vaccination of the population. In order to ensure that this is done smoothly, the Minister wishes to create a sufficiently flexible framework with this draft law. The purpose of the vaccination of the population must indeed be, but that does not justify the too flexible data collection and distribution as it now stands. We still believe that we are far enough away from the vaccination campaign to clarify this matter in advance, but that is not what is happening in this text. What we are seeing now, and what is endorsed by the Data Protection Authority, are unclear objectives, which makes it difficult to assess the processing of the data according to finality. Surely it is not possible for data from our population to be collected for private companies or insurance companies that do not act in the public interest? As you know, pseudonymized data is reversible and therefore not completely anonymous. We believe that there should be specific provisions in the text on who is given access to which data and that this should not only be included in general provisions of the law. We are also concerned about the role of the Information Security Committee. Although we agree with the data exchange and consider it important and necessary in the fight against the coronavirus and the follow-up of vaccination, the present draft contains, in our view, too many uncertainties and concerns about data protection to add a positive voice to it. That is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u109	Madam President, I also consider that the Minister of Health should have been present. It is quite amusing and paradoxical to examine this dossier with the Secretary of State MR who, at least in the press, declares himself sensitive to data protection, but who is clearly present here to defend this text – as did the Minister of Health in the French Community. I'm talking to you about this, because Mr Bacquelaine – who is not here at the moment – was just repeating in the gallery, in front of Minister Vandenbroucke, what I've been saying for several weeks. I was very interested in what he said. However, these were just words. On the other hand, in the case of acts, it is quite different. You are now arriving with this text which provides a clear demonstration of the late preparation of the vaccination strategy. Thus, for fragile people, it has been eight months since the lists were drawn up by the Higher Council of Health. We are already vaccinating, including some of these people, and this cooperation agreement is now being submitted to Parliament. The most problematic issue in this text is that the way in which vaccination is organized as you have chosen it is in the law. You have indeed opted for a rigid model for vaccination centres, since it excludes general practitioners from being able to vaccinate their patients, while everything is being done to avoid immunizing very fragile and sick patients in hospitals. You import into this cooperation agreement a complex model of convening that includes errors, bugs, etc. As a result, people who have already been vaccinated are called again, not to mention the case of dead persons. You could have relied on another type of organization, allowing candidates for vaccination from a target group – for example, by age group – to be able to make an appointment via the Internet or by telephone – for older people – either with their doctor or with a centre. The model you chose is not ours at all. I do not mean that there should be no vaccination centres; I am in favour of them. But this model only organized around vaccination centres is not the model we propose. It's been months since I said that we have to vaccinate where the patients are. We need to work with general practitioners so that they can vaccinate their patients who have doubts, questions, difficulties in mobilizing. And we need to vaccinate very fragile and sick patients in the hospital. I've been in contact with several hospitals in the last few days. It is particularly shocking that they are being taken out of vaccine doses by preventing them from immunizing extremely fragile patients, who have cancers, who are in chemotherapy, or patients with dialysis. Truly, it is particularly shocking to hear this completely incomprehensible public health approach and strategy. This cooperation agreement also runs in writing the selection of patients at risk of less than 65 years of age by mutual societies. I heard Mr Bacquelaine say to Mr Vandenbroucke what I have been saying for weeks, but at the same time I see that what he says orally is clearly put in writing. The selection by mutuals is problematic, first for a question of medical secrecy, and then for respect for medical data. In addition, in committee, the minister was unable to explain how mutuals would select these patients. I can already tell you that the mutuals, without doing it on purpose, will leave aside a whole series of patients. I am told that we must not stress, that general practitioners will be able to do it themselves. Do you know what's going on today? General practitioners have the right to select five patients a week, colleagues! They can notify the vaccination centre of five patients per week. Is this serious? Not only is it not at all effective, but it is also not correct with regard to chronic patients and patients with heavy pathologies. It is also asking the general practitioners to check whether what the mutuals have done is correct. It is completely inefficient, and it poses major problems in terms of the type of patient selection and respect for medical confidentiality. Another aspect that I want to highlight is, more comprehensively, issues related to population data and privacy. Mr Secretary of State, in relation to your statements in the press, there is an ambivalence, an opposition, a gap between what you say and what you support through this cooperation agreement, whether in terms of data retention, pseudonymization – which is a reversible anonymisation, which is obviously a problem here – and respect for privacy and all the power given by this text to the Information Security Committee. In fact, it is the Information Security Committee which, through this text, will itself be able to decide which data may or may not be used by a particular structure in an alleged list of purposes which is not only long and far too broad but can also be interpreted always in the sense that one wishes. Indeed, the description of the purposes included in this text will always allow, for any application which has a direct or indirect connection with vaccination, to justify that it is in the name of these purposes that the data can be used. We should also not forget the questions on the cross-checking of data between different databases, which allows people to be traced individually. All of these issues, for unwarranted and unexplained reasons, are contained in this cooperation agreement, and therefore in the bill before us. This raises huge questions. This reveals the approach of the different governments, but also the choice and option taken by the different members of this government. There's what we say and there's what we do. I knew your point of view on the organization of the campaign. I hear what you're saying to the right and to the left. I note, for my part, that there is above all what you do and what you decide and that nothing is right, whether it is at the level of the organisation of the campaign, whether it is at the level of the strategy, whether it is on how to select fragile audiences, whether it is on the issue of data compliance. These are the reasons why we will not support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u110	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, it is now very clear that vaccination is the way out of this crisis. It is the vaccination combined with rapid tests and recovery protocols that will allow us, in particular, to see our loved ones again without having the unbearable fear of contaminating them. It is now known with certainty that vaccination in nursing homes has worked and allowed life to regain its rights within them. Our goal is to ensure that, through vaccination, life can regain its rights throughout society. That is why our vaccination campaign must be a success. The credibility of our country at the international level, but also and above all the security of the population and the recovery of our economy, our social and cultural life, is at stake. It is also for this reason that we supported the urgency of examining this text in committee. The problem, Secretary of State, is that this vaccination campaign is chaotic, as we know. You mustn't be afraid to say it. The testimonies of our fellow citizens speak for themselves. You'll tell me it's probably subjective. I know Minister Vandenbroucke prefers numbers. I would like to join some of my colleagues in regretting his absence. What exactly do these figures say, which he himself recalled earlier? They say that on 24 March, almost three months after the launch of our vaccination campaign, almost 12 per cent of our population had received a first dose, and less than 5 per cent of the population had received the second dose. We therefore remain very far from the vaccination rate we need to achieve, that is, 70 per cent of the population. In order to achieve this as soon as possible, my party, like others, has not stopped, in committee but also in plenary, making proposals to change the vaccination strategy. I am thinking in particular of the fact of proceeding in age groups by means of summonses which would be sent directly by the communes, which have the experience and all the information necessary to do so. People with co-morbidities should not be forgotten, by fully involving general practitioners, hospitals and medical centres that treat these patients in the vaccination strategy, and therefore aware of their vulnerability and legitimacy to be vaccinated as a matter of priority. Mr Secretary of State, it is precisely because your government has refused this last proposal that vaccination of people with co-morbidities has still not been possible. Therefore, today we are obliged to vote for a cooperation agreement that endorses this vaccination strategy, which is mainly based on vaccination centres, even though it is known that this strategy is not working. I said it earlier. In any case, this strategy is not up to the challenge today. The Minister of Health told us in committee that doctors' organizations had finally been closely involved in this cooperation agreement. Still happy, do I want to say! Still, he himself admitted that Domus Medica was enthusiastic about this cooperation agreement, but not the ABSyM. He therefore consulted with the medical profession, but he finally selected the opinions he was willing to follow. The same was true for the views of the Council of State and ODA. Again, as the minister himself acknowledged in committee, the opinion of the Council of State was followed to the maximum. But he added that the government wanted a framework that was flexible, as our colleague Merckx said earlier. Except that flexibility must under no circumstances mean legal uncertainty! I explain this with three arguments. Firstly, both the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority requested an impact assessment on this specific but fundamental aspect of data protection, even before our Assembly could decide on the cooperation agreement. I asked for it in committee and the minister did not reply, which shows that this impact assessment was not carried out or that it was not made available to Members of Parliament. Secondly, with regard to the communication of personal data derived from databases, the cooperation agreement provides for a prior and indispensable authorisation of the Information Security Committee in the event of the transmission of personal data to, I quote, "a body which has a public interest for the purposes for which those bodies are responsible by or under a law, decree or order, but also for the communication of such data after anonymisation or, at least, pseudonymization, to research institutions for the conduct of scientific or statistical studies". Therefore, contrary to what has been requested by the Council of State, these bodies are not specified. It is also unclear whether the authorization to be given by the Committee will consist of a blank or whether it will have a real right of control over the use of the data that will result. Thirdly, the Data Protection Authority has been able to see some progress in defining the purposes of data records, except that some of them still lack precision in the text. In this respect, the Data Protection Authority cites several purposes: the provision of health care and treatment, post-authorisation monitoring and surveillance, the execution of scientific or statistical studies, and the information and awareness of users of care. The danger, ladies and gentlemen, is that with objectives that are so broadly stated, we are preventing our citizens from knowing very clearly what we are doing and what we will do with their data and in what way. We are therefore very far from the clear and transparent framework for identifying the processing processes of our personal data, as you promised, Mr Secretary of State, no later than this week. The Data Protection Authority also requested a restructuring of the cooperation agreement for purposes, which would have made it possible to better ensure that the processing complies with the basic principles of necessity and proportionality. Again, this request was not met by the final text. Ladies and gentlemen, in these circumstances, as you will have understood, our group will only be able to abstain on this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u111	Madam President, this debate echoes the one I had yesterday in the same Chamber, in the Committee on Justice, on personal data. It is indeed important to remember that the situation in which we are in is particularly complicated and that we must get out of it as quickly as possible. As has been said, the vaccination campaign is an essential element for this. I would like to point out that it is a responsibility and a global burden at the state level, since it is not only the federal state but also all the regions that are mobilised on this issue. I do not go back to the aims, the vaccination campaign and the strategy. I refer you to the committee reports, but also to the questions that were raised a few minutes ago in this House. You will have understood that my attention is full on one essential aspect, since this is a cooperation agreement on databases. Within the framework of my powers, therefore, my attention is totally focused on data protection and privacy, since, in my view, these personal data are the essential guarantee of the protection of individual freedoms and the fundamental rights of our citizens. Two elements must be distinguished. There is the emergency situation in which we find ourselves and in which we try to move as quickly as possible in order to be able to be as effective as possible. I hear a number of questions. I also understand that, as ODA has pointed out, we have made progress in the accuracy of this text. I understand that in the future we will still have to be more precise in the legislative framework that we are going to build. In this emergency, the GDPR is well respected. Technical elements are also mentioned in the text of the European Regulation in terms of the anonymisation or pseudonymization of data which enable a number of profiles to be identified and drawn up without assigning specific data to them, which makes it possible to identify individuals without identifying their specific health data. A whole series of technical steps are therefore taken to make progress in this vaccination. As you will have seen, there are two databases here: one for vaccinations, the other for support for vaccination campaigns. It is important to move forward as quickly as possible at these levels. As far as the question of joining the word with action is concerned, it is with this sense of ethics that I have been educated. When I say something, I do it; and when I do it, I say it! If you have watched the video of yesterday's commission or read its report, you know the plan that I propose to restore confidence and transparency in the management of personal data. It is true that the covid situation may have highlighted situations that are sometimes somewhat imprecise or surprising in relation to a number of actors or processes that currently govern personal data. As I said yesterday, I am convinced that we need, in general, not only in the context of the situation we are dealing with, but also in the long term, more transparency in order to restore the confidence of the citizen in the use of data by the State. I have presented a very simple plan, which consists of three stages. The first is to restore a cadastre of the personal data of our citizens, recording their use and purpose, but also the identity of those who use it and the legal basis on which they rely. The second step is to make this data accessible to our citizens by means of an ergonomic tool – probably digital – through which every citizen will be able, by next year, to access all the data available to the State at all times and in all places. He could also know who could consult them, why and for what purpose, but also identify any staff members who had acceded to them. Finally, I probably come to the most important point, namely, the evaluation of the Privacy Act, as I indicated in my policy note. It will not ignore any reflection, whether it concerns ODA or the Information Security Committee – which arouses so much emotion, but which is the result of a law that has been passed here and which has given it powers. It therefore seems to me important to ask us, after three years of operation of the privacy law, whether it should be adapted and the framework within which the data of our citizens are processed should be changed. It is by combining words and deeds that I intend to do well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u112	Mr Secretary of State, I do not know what text you are talking about, but it is not at all the text that is on the agenda of our sitting. There is no word in your answer about the choices of organisation of the campaign that are sunk in this cooperation agreement. Not a word about the different elements I put forward. I now hear that the MR repeats what I've been saying for a few weeks. You come with elements on personal data, etc. That is what you say here about personal data and what I also heard from Mr Bacquelaine earlier, addressed to Minister Vandenbroucke, is what you want, what you are wearing. That is what you support, and in that case we must not vote for this text. Conversely, if you vote for this text both on the organisation of the vaccination campaign and on the aspect of sensitive data, because it is medical data of the patients concerned, then what you say about the organisation and these data is just wind! I can tell you that this double speech is quite challenging and problematic. In any case, I take note of the fact that you are going to support this text and that the announcements you are making in this regard are therefore to say the least fair of the wind!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u113	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u114	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1853/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1853/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u115	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u116	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this project granting workers a right of low unemployment in order to receive a vaccine against covid-19 was given urgency in plenary on 18 March and was discussed in committee on Tuesday 23 March. In his presentation, the Minister explained the need for a separate law for this particular small unemployment scheme, which concerns a very specific, temporary situation and requires rapid implementation. He also outlined the scope and modalities of the scheme. All workers under contract of employment are entitled to do so. A circular from Minister De Sutter also provides an exemption from service to all personnel in the federal administrative public service. The worker has the time to be vaccinated, including travel time to the vaccination site. The Minister also stated that he had taken into account the favourable opinions of the National Labour Council, the State Council and the Data Protection Authority. Appropriate and specific measures have thus been taken to protect the fundamental rights and interests of the workers concerned. I have also tabled an amendment, co-signed by my colleagues in the majority, to clarify the nature of the leave and the method of calculating the remuneration to ensure legal certainty. It is thus stated that the worker is entitled to his normal remuneration. Discussions then focused on the scope of the measure and the specific cases of specific groups or situations. The minister was able to provide clear and reassuring answers. Ms. Fonck questioned the lack of retroactive effect on the operative part of the draft and tabled an amendment to that effect. The Minister said that this aspect had been addressed by the social partners without finding a consensus solution. He considered that the amendment tabled did not meet the objective pursued by the draft. All the articles were adopted unanimously, as was our amendment. Mrs Fonck's amendment was rejected by 16 votes to 1. The whole of the draft was voted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us ensures that any worker who wants to be vaccinated against the covid virus is given the opportunity to be absent for the duration necessary to obtain the vaccine, while maintaining the normal wage. We in the N-VA support this bill, but I would like to express some concerns. Firstly, I think it is extremely important that those who are invited to vaccination should be informed on time, if only to allow for orderly work planning in the workplace. If vaccination is to take place during working time, it must of course be possible to organise it properly at work. So timely notification is important. Secondly, it is also extremely important that vaccinations are administered smoothly and that no time is wasted. In many vaccination centres everything is going smoothly for the time being, but the volume of vaccines that have been administered so far is still low. The stress test has yet to come for the vaccination centres. It is important that things go well there, so that time is not wasted unnecessarily. Thirdly, it is also important that the administrative procedure, the invitation, is simple. Why is that important? The employer cannot be expected to be suspected of underlying illness on the basis of, for example, the timing or content of the invitation. So much will indeed depend on the qualitative organisation of vaccinations. That is a point of interest which we must bear in mind. Otherwise, we will really be facing problems in the workplace, and that cannot of course be the intention of this draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from that, it is striking that when it comes to two hours' notice, Parliament is being called in. We discussed a draft law in committee and do so today in plenary. But when it comes to the introduction of curfews, for example, when it comes to the prohibition of cooperation, when it comes to the travel ban, the closure of the catering industry, the closure of the contact professions, the closure of schools, the closure of the event and culture sectors, there is no debate here. It should be at least the other way around. Here too, after a year of much-needed support measures, we are now beginning to have a debate on the cause of the need for such support measures. The cause is not the corona virus. I know that some ministers, in particular, often attribute other characteristics to the coronavirus. The corona virus wants this; the corona virus says that; the corona virus forces us to do this. That's not right. The reason for the need for support measures, which we do support, is not the corona virus itself, but the way in which the current government intends to deal with the corona virus. If the hairdressers have to close, it's not because the coronavirus imposes the closure. That's because the government does. If schools have to close, it's not the corona virus that imposes the closure. It's the government she's imposing. The support measures, which we have been discussing repeatedly here over the last few months, are a symptom control of a condition which is beginning to develop chronic properties. When I hear Prime Minister De Croo talking about the short pain after a year of muddling, we are basically no further on the approach to corona compared to a year ago, I do not understand that anymore. I would also like to point out that the Corona approach, which also calls for all kinds of socio-economic support, will bring with it a social cost which will be very high: more unemployment, more bankruptcies, more mental health problems, more school retardation and more school drop-out. Those are things that last a lifetime. We can therefore agree that it is to be feared that the social cost of the corona approach will be much higher today than its benefits. Moreover, social costs will last much longer than we like. It is incomprehensible that this issue should not be questioned in Parliament and that there is no room for debate in Parliament. That is why I would like to raise the issue here. It's my duty to do that. I conclude by saying that the social cost of the corona approach over the last 12 months cannot be expected to exceed its benefits. If we see that this is going to be the case, which is indeed happening today, then we must have the debate on this. We can't be expected to pay more for the corona approach than he gives us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u119	Madam President, everyone knows how crucial the vaccination campaign is to the end of the crisis. Together with my group, we are pleased that this provision has finally been made to facilitate the vaccination campaign by removing an obstacle for workers who wish to be vaccinated and maintain their remuneration for the time necessary for vaccination. This is in line with the collective effort we must make to maximize coverage in the population. Of course, we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall be voting for the draft with great conviction. If we want to overcome the corona crisis, it is important to vaccinate everyone as soon as possible. The intention is to vaccinate 70% of the population by July anyway, so it has to move forward. That is why it is important to give people the opportunity to be vaccinated. Often they receive a call letter in the mailbox and the vaccination moment falls during the day. It is therefore a good thing that the vaccination leave, which is small enough to be vaccinated, allows the time to move from work to the vaccination village, to have the vaccine put there within the necessary time and then go back to work. Of course, it can also be done before or after work. Yesterday, I heard Mr Timmermans from the VBO pleading to vaccinate as quickly and widely as possible. It is also good that the initiative is supported by employers and trade unions. It is also important that employers call on their employees to be vaccinated. Finally, I welcome the confirmation by the Minister in committee that the arrangement applies to everyone. Each worker can take vaccination leave to be vaccinated, even if one receives an open invitation requiring oneself to record the hour. Not everyone can be vaccinated on weekends. If everyone opts for a vaccination time outside working hours for the weekend or for a vaccination time, the vaccination centres are also stalled. It's good that justice is there for everyone. Let's hope everyone gets vaccinated quickly. There's no excuse for not doing it anymore. Work is important, but being vaccinated is even more important at the present stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u121	Madam Chair, my group will support this bill. It is important for us that workers should be freed from their job in order to be vaccinated, in line with the objective of large-scale vaccination. It is also essential that this project have some benchmarks to protect the privacy and health of workers vis-à-vis their employers. In committee, we had already relayed some of the concerns of the unions about possible pressure from employers to force the worker to be vaccinated outside working hours. We know that this will be easier to control in the structures where trade unions are present, especially when we know that workers continue to fight for proper health-related working conditions. Despite these reservations, we will support this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u122	Minister, the title of this draft law is very clear: workers are granted the right to be absent from work for a short period of time while retaining their pay to be vaccinated against the coronavirus. That's incredibly important. There is no doubt that the vaccination strategy can only succeed if at least 70% of the population has been vaccinated. It is therefore very important to sensitise at different levels to take into account the invitation to be vaccinated, including at work. After all, every employer has an interest in having his workers vaccinated. It is good that the small amount is limited to the duration needed to obtain the vaccine. Everyone gets an invitation about 14 days in advance, so there is enough time for the employer to organise the work on the work floor or telework. I can confirm that the vaccination centres are absolutely ready for this. I was at the wheel of setting up a vaccination centre and I found that it is going very smoothly. There are now a limited number of lines open, but that vaccination centre is fully operational and can also adjust opening hours as soon as there are more vaccines. I think all the vaccination centers are ready to vaccinate everyone. We therefore support the draft law with the aim of unimpeded vaccination of as many people as possible. This is an important objective and is very essential, both for workers and for employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u123	The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance supports the draft law, because it naturally encourages workers to be vaccinated. Just at a group immunity of 70% after vaccination, we all have an interest. In this sense, we also agree that people should be encouraged to do so, because during working hours they can take up that small amount of time to be vaccinated. It also helps the vaccination centres, which then not only have to plan the vaccination of all workers at night or at weekends, but can spread more widely. In this way, the vaccination campaign can be better organised. It is important for us that the worker can be vaccinated while maintaining wages. We all have an interest in that happening. It is in the interests of public health and businesses, which are still a major source of contamination. Both employers and employees have an interest in ensuring that vaccination is carried out smoothly. I am also pleased with the Minister's announcement in committee that the FPS Employment will publish a Q&A on his website with all practical questions and answers on the application of the system of small neglect, the evidence to be presented and the practical organisation at work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u124	Madam President, we will support this text even if it has a special taste. Some colleagues said that all workers could have access to the device. In practice, this is not true, especially for staff in the care sector in general, who have not been vaccinated where they work, in the nursing home or in a hospital. They are caregivers outside a care institution. Since January, these caregivers have had to take leave to get vaccinated. They are therefore treated unfairly. Indeed, the device you are planning will not be in force since 1 January but once the text is published. So it's problematic. I hear a lot of talk about support for caregivers, etc. In this case, it is the caregivers who have already been vaccinated by having had to take leave for a number of them, who will not be treated in the same way as those who will be affected by this text tomorrow. That is why I tabled an amendment in committee and I am resubmitting it here in plenary. I hope that we can still consider correcting the system to take care of caregivers so that they too can avoid having to take half a day off, as others have had to, to get vaccinated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u125	Madam President, I remember the television debate on January 17, 2020 when Minister Dermagne announced his willingness to introduce this leave. In order to facilitate the vaccination campaign and to obtain this famous vaccination coverage of at least 70 per cent of the population, a right to low unemployment leave would be provided for workers who should be absent to be vaccinated. I was relieved to see, a few weeks later, that the minister had kept his word by introducing his bill in Parliament, but also by doing so in time, even before the vaccination of the general public began. He may have been helped by the slow pace of the vaccination campaign. But let's have a good count! This text, on the other hand, did not delay. I regret, however, as Mrs Fonck has said, that no retroactive effect has been foreseen for workers who have already had to take leave of absence to be vaccinated. I do not have the right to vote in committee, but be sure, ladies and gentlemen, that if I had had the opportunity, I would have supported this amendment with great conviction. However, I am relieved to see this text coming to Parliament and to note that it has received a positive opinion from both the social partners and the Data Protection Authority. It therefore gives us the guarantee that, as soon as this law comes into force, a worker who makes the civic choice to be vaccinated will not be penalized by a loss of wages. This is fundamental because it is part of all the measures we need to take to facilitate and encourage vaccination. These are measures also taken in the economic interest of the company and the workers, but also in our interest to all, because as soon as possible the workers will be vaccinated, as soon as possible our freedoms to all will be found. This project is a perfect example of solidarity that must be one of our best weapons against the virus. So it is with great enthusiasm that my group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u126	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u127	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1849/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1849/4) The bill has four articles. The draft law has 4 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u128	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u129	In view of the lack of candidates for the terms of non-notary alternate members of the Commission de nomination de langue française pour le notariat, a second appeal to the candidates was published in the Moniteur belge of 15 February 2021, in accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 28 January 2021. As there were insufficient candidates for the mandates of alternate non-notary member of the French-speaking Appointment Commission for the notary, a second call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 15 February 2021, in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 28 January 2021. Following the second call, the following applications were submitted for the terms of French-speaking alternate members: Category of magistrate: Mr Adrien van der Linden d'Hooghvorst, Counsellor at the Mons Court of Appeal External member category: Mr. Philippe Damman, former Master of Internship at the Faculty of Law of UCL. Following the second call, the following candidates for the mandates of French-speaking alternate member were submitted: Category of magistrate: Mr Adrien van der Linden d. O. Hooghvorst, Counsellor at the Bergen Court of Appeal Category of external members: Mr Philippe Damman, former intern at the Faculty of Law of the UCL. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 March 2021, I propose that: - declare Mr Adrien van der Linden's application to be admissible - declare Mr Philippe Damman's candidacy inadmissible since he does not meet the condition of appointment with regard to age. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 March 2021, I propose: - declare Mr Adrien van der Linden's late candidacy admissible, - dismiss Mr Philippe Damman's candidature as inadmissible, since he does not fulfil the age condition for appointment. Therefore, since the number of applications submitted for the term of French-speaking alternate member (the "external member category") is still insufficient, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a new call for candidates for the term of office of an alternate member (the "external member category") of the Commission de nomination de langue française pour le notariat. Consequently, as there were still insufficient applications for the mandate of French-speaking alternate member (category "external member") I propose that you publish a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of an alternate member (category "external member") of the French-speaking Notarial Committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u130	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the draft law approving the cooperation agreement of 24 March 2021 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the Walloon Region, the German-speaking Community and the Joint Community Commission concerning the transfer of necessary data to federated entities, local authorities or police services with a view to compliance with the application of the quarantine or mandatory screening test for travellers from foreign areas and subject to quarantine or a mandatory screening test upon arrival in Belgium, No. 1882/1. The Government requested the urgency declaration pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law approving the cooperation agreement of 24 March 2021 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the Walloon Region, the German-speaking Community and the Joint Community Committee on the transfer of data to the federated entities, local authorities or police forces with a view to maintaining the compulsory quarantine or testing of travellers from foreign zones subject to quarantine or testing upon arrival in Belgium, No. 1882/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u131	Madam President, I think you have already said everything, and I thank you for that. This draft cooperation agreement is intended to enable the compulsory quarantine or testing of travellers coming from foreign zones in which quarantine or testing is mandatory upon arrival in Belgium. In view of the deadline for publication of the cooperation agreement, and in view of the current health context, we would ask for the urgency of this draft agreement to be approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u132	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u133	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I also propose that you take into account and refer to the committee responsible: the motion for a resolution (MM. Christophe Lacroix, Ahmed Laaouej, Leslie Leoni, MM. Hugues Bayet, Patrick Prévot and Malik Ben Achour) aimed at forcing banks to play their full societal role in the context of the VOCID-19 crisis, No. 1885/1. I would also suggest that you consider and send it to the committee responsible: the motion for a resolution (Mr Christophe Lacroix, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mrs Leslie Leoni, Mr Hugues Bayet, Mr Patrick Prévot and Mr Malik Ben Accour) on the obligation for banks to play their full social role in the context of the COVID-19 crisis, No. 1885/1. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u134	Mrs Moscufo, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1884/1, which promotes feasible work and the right to rest at the end of a career.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u135	Madam President, we are asking for the urgency of this proposal so that the end-of-career life for the majority of workers can be reduced, with a pre-pension of 58 years. We are asking for urgency because we know that there is an explosion in the numbers of long-term patients and that workers between the ages of 55 and 64 are the most affected. In addition, we are going to face a lot of restructuring. The National Bank announces a possible loss of 100,000 jobs. We believe that a 55-year-old pre-pension in the context of these restructurings is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u136	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u137	Mrs Depraetere, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1886/1 on rapid antigen and self-testing by Mrs Jiroflée.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u138	Madam President, last week the Consultative Committee decided to take new steps forward on the testing strategy. Repetitively conducted rapid tests will be used preventively in the workplace, both in the government and in companies. Self-testing will also play a role, in which everyone will have the opportunity to contribute to the detection of infections. This is how we build dikes, but for that we need a legal basis quickly. That is why we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u139	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u140	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions of 17 March 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Social Affairs, Work and Pensions of 17 March 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 105/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs. Anja Vanrobaeys. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 105/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Anja Vanrobaeys. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u141	Colleagues, I had introduced this inquiry before the revelations of the newspaper Le Soir. He informed us of the Putting data at the center project, the Big Data project that was denounced here in plenary. This project is only the result of the very operation of Smals. Three issues need to be addressed. First, Smals is a non-control, non-accountable, non-accountable, non-accountable, non-accountable, non-accountable, non-accountable, non-accountable, non-accountable, non-accountable, non-accountable, non-accountable, non-accountable, non-accountable, non-accountable, non-accountable, non-accountable, non-accountable, non-accountable, non-accountable, non-accountable, non-accountable, She's on her own to do her job. It is a real problem of democratic control. Secondly, it does not comply with public procurement legislation because it relies on an exception in the law; but it does not comply with the rules that may allow this exception. As a result, she makes an abusive interpretation of the law. Thirdly, it is full of conflicts of interest. People at the head of Smals find themselves at different levels and are both buyers and sellers of the product. We have a big problem. Given the strategic importance of such companies, they cannot remain out of control. That is why we have introduced a motion for a recommendation. We ask that a company like Smals be a public company under democratic control. We also ask that an audit of the Court of Auditors be carried out within Smals, in order to make all the clarity on this ASBL and to see what is wrong with its functioning.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u142	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u143	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 30 No Abstentions 29 Abstensions Total 139 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u144	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions of 17 March 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Social Affairs, Work and Pensions of 17 March 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 108/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sophie Thémont. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 108/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sophie Thémont. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the death of a child, a partner or a parent has a major emotional impact on the relatives. After the first shock to cope with the loss, the next of kin is confronted almost immediately with the administrative and financial malle mill associated with the loss. As a next of kin one suddenly has to pay only for all financial charges, for example paying the rent or paying off a property, if one has not taken out fully covering debt balance insurance. Household costs and utilities must also be paid only. This brings with it additional financial and organisational concerns on top of the grief. The government provides for a so-called survivor's pension for the remaining partner if a number of conditions are met. A transitional allowance may also be applied for for for a limited period, but limited to one year or two years if you have a dependent child or children. The transitional allowance is therefore paid only for a very short period. Moreover, the tax treatment of income is extremely unfavourable for those who continue to combine it with part-time or part-time income. This also applies to the survivor's pension. Interest groups have been addressing this problem for many years and are asking to pay both the transitional and the survivor's pension net. As a result of the increase in income, there is always a heavy tax charge. Moreover, this temporary increase in taxable income also has a direct impact on all kinds of benefits. I am thinking of the social supplement to the Growth Package, the social tariff for gas, electricity and water and other social benefits such as childcare and scholarships. We therefore call in our motion for a resolution for specific support measures for this target group and for initiatives to be taken to pay the survivor's pension and the transitional allowance net. If these are paid as non-taxable fees, it is possible to avoid high tax charges. Furthermore, we ask that a single central contact point be created as soon as possible to assist the person concerned in the administrative handling of a death. Finally, if a number of conditions are met, we ask that a transitional allowance be paid as long as there are children studying. I hope that you will all support us in making progress towards improving the financial situation of next of kin. After all, the situation in which many people now find themselves is unacceptable and a welfare state is unworthy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u146	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u147	Yes [[84]] Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u148	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters of 17 March 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 17 March 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 112/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Ortwin Depoortere; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Servais Verherstraeten, Khalil Aouasti et Tim Vandenput. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 112/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Ortwin Depoostere; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Mr Khalil Aouasti and Mr Tim Vandenput. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u149	Madam President, I have interviewed the Minister for the Interior and Security about the so-called Skky operation, which was a major blow to organised crime in our country. I think it is appropriate to give a compliment to our police and intelligence services from this place to bring this operation to a successful conclusion. However, the work is not finished. Unfortunately, there is also a downside to the coin and it also came to light that these criminal organisations sometimes use people within our regular system who have sensitive information. The reason why these people are getting in the way of such criminal organizations is obvious and has already been studied in international scientific research. The first reason is easy money gain, but another is demotivation at the workplace. We must also dare to name the latter. I have therefore tabled a motion to ask the Minister and the Government first of all to remedy the understaffing of our police forces by no one denied. I also ask that the under-financing of our police system, which no one denies, be corrected. Finally, I ask for better internal audits to be organised so that access rights to crucial sensitive information are better and more regularly monitored. Unfortunately, some of my colleagues, such as Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Vandenput, prefer to go on to the order of the day. I hope that the majority of the Chamber will not go into the order of the day, but will approve my motion for a recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u150	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u151	Yes 90 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u152	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Commission on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions on 17 March 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions of 17 March 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 103/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Gaby Colebunders; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 103/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Gaby Colebunders; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u153	Yes 91 Yes No. [[28]] No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 142 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u154	These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the commissions of justice and interior, security, migration and administrative matters of 19 March 2021. These interviews were held at the public meeting of the Joint Committees for Justice and Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration of 19 March 2021. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 110/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen; - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Katja Gabriëls and Laurence Zanchetta and MM. Tim Vandenput et Koen Geens. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 110/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen; - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels and Mrs Laurence Zanchetta and Mr Tim Vandenput and Mr Koen Geens. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on Monday we commemorated the sad anniversary of the attacks in Zaventem and Maalbeek five years ago. Following these terrorist attacks, a committee of inquiry was set up in Parliament, which has made a whole series of important recommendations. One of these was the creation of a guarantee fund, the purpose of which was to establish a system whereby the authorities would immediately grant the victims of the attacks the necessary assistance and compensation, after which these amounts could be recovered from the insurance companies. We have now been five years and have had to hear several poignant testimonies from victims who have remained in the cold to this day. The government has now decided that there will be no guarantee fund and that the victims will have to call on the Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence and to the Occasional Saviors. That is a committee, and I want to leave no doubt about it, which is doing a good job in itself, but which is not really the appropriate instrument in the context of the case of the attacks and, in particular, the compensation of the victims, as this committee is bound by very strict legislation. For example, the deadlines for the victims who have not yet applied have already expired and the fees have been capped up to a maximum of EUR 125 000. These are two serious obstacles, but there are many others that were explained in detail during the discussion in the Joint Committee on Justice and Home Affairs. In this motion, we ask that the government revisit this matter seriously and consider returning to this decision. Another recommendation, the unique window, has still not been implemented today. In 2018 it was worked out on paper, but we are now three years ahead and it still doesn't work in practice. We therefore call in this motion for a resolution for all the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks to be drawn up, in particular the establishment of the Guarantee Fund and the one-stop shop, and for the government to draw up an appropriate regulation. Colleagues, I look forward to your support. I hope that this government does not go into the order of the day, which would mean that the victims will remain in the cold again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the victims of attacks, we are talking about people. We're talking about parents. We're talking about kids. We're talking about people, not file numbers. We're not talking about accounting or statistics, we're talking about human beings. I met some of the victims. I can talk about Abdellah and his wife. When they told me their story, I had the ball in my stomach. I had no idea our country was so dysfunctional. How can this happen? It's great to do commemorations every year. It's a sad birthday. Commemorations can be made and a minute of silence can be observed in tribute to the victims, but that is not what they are asking for. Recommendations were made by the commission of inquiry into the attacks. The majority of these recommendations have not yet been implemented. For the past five years, these victims have been living in hell and the recommendations have not yet been implemented. How can this happen in our country, when these recommendations are essential today? I have therefore tabled a motion for a recommendation calling for an inter-federal task force to be set up today as a matter of urgency, with the task of making effective the establishment of an emergency fund and the establishment of a single expertise and of all the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. It is also a matter of providing for a binding guideline that formally commits the government to find a solution by March 2022 at the latest. This situation can no longer be sustained. The victims have been suffering for five years. They have suffered from the horror of the attacks, from everything that has followed and still suffer from the incompetence of our country to manage their situation. It's time for this to stop. We must put an end to this disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u157	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u158	Yes [[85]] Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 143 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u159	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u160	Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1794/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1794/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u161	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u162	Yes 101 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 40 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1820/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1820/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u163	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u164	Yes 126 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 145 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1853/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1853/4) Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] [[)]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u165	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck to Article 4. (1849/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck on article 4. (1849/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u166	Yes 23 Yes No. 121 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u167	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u168	Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1849/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1849/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u169	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. "Pas-d-d-observation"? Are you sure you don't mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u170	Madam President, we asked through the Conference of Presidents that the draft law on the delegation of sums in the event of a food contribution be brought to the agenda of next Thursday's plenary session through the application of Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure. We sent you a letter to that effect. At yesterday's Conference of Presidents, I understood that it was accepted since nothing was said on the subject. However, I note that this proposal does not appear on the agenda. The services explained to me that the report was available as it was dealt with in committee a few weeks ago. It is not this point that will occupy the whole agenda! I would ask that this item be added to the agenda of next week's sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip094x.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Fonck. If there is no objection, this item will be added to the agenda of the meeting, not on Wednesday, but on Thursday, 1 April 2021. No observation? [[No]] The amended agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The amended agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting Wednesday, March 31, 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday, 31 March 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
