ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic612x.u1	At the request of Mr Houtmeyers, this exchange of views was placed on the agenda. Ministers have prepared an introduction which may also address the questions. I propose that we give the floor first to the ministers and then to the Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic612x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course, the years 2020 and 2021 were deeply marked by the health crisis of coronavirus, which had a significant social and economic impact as well as on the labour market. Last year, we saw a fall in the employment rate, an increase in the unemployment rate and a fall in the turnover of our businesses. The use of temporary unemployment coronavirus and bridge law was therefore particularly important. In the face of this unprecedented crisis, we believe that the federal government has worked tirelessly with the governments of the federated entities and has taken important steps to support workers and businesses. All these measures have helped to support our economy and to preserve our labour market from devastating consequences. Although we must remain very modest and cautious with regard to the corona virus, the outlook is positive today. The recovery was stronger and faster than expected. After a reduction of 6.3 percent last year, the Federal Planning Agency now expects a 5.7 percent growth in the Belgian economy in 2021 and 3 percent in 2022. Economic activity in Belgium would therefore return to its pre-crisis level in the fourth quarter of this year. With regard to employment, in June 2021 the Federal Office of the Plan estimated the increase in domestic employment to 44,000 persons for the period 2021-2022. In September 2021, the same Federal Bureau of the Plan estimated the unchanged growth of political employment at 73,000 for the period 2021-2022. While in August 2020 we saw a very sharp fall in the employment rate of the 20-64 year olds, which was 68.8% in this month, we are now seeing a significant increase in the employment rate. According to STABEL, employment in the second quarter of 2021 is 70.5%. The employment rate has returned to the level of the fourth quarter of 2019, i.e. before the crisis. Temporary unemployment coronavirus, which is an important measure and one of the main support measures, for both workers and employers, is also significantly less used. Indeed, since the beginning of the health crisis, recourse to temporary unemployment has, fortunately, been at the lowest level. As of September 25, 2021, there were 36,732 coronary unemployed workers, while at the height of the crisis, in April 2020, this figure rose to 600,000, or even more than 825,000 on certain days. However, while the recovery seems to be under way, coronavirus unemployment remains vital for a number of companies and workers, victims of what I call a "long economic covid". According to a study by SD Works, it is mainly small SMEs with fewer than 20 workers that still use temporary unemployment coronavirus. The sectors most affected by temporary unemployment are the catering sector (8.5%), the aviation sector (6.8%), the entertainment sector (almost 5%), hairdressers and beauty services (3.7%) and the construction sector (3.5%). In order to continue to support workers, firms and sectors in difficulty, temporary unemployment due to force majeure corona and bridge law were extended until 31 December 2021. Temporary unemployment will remain valid in the case of a worker or a sick child in his care. By 2022, the social partners discuss how to change the mechanism of temporary unemployment coronavirus as well as other mechanisms to maintain employment, with the aim of changing and extending the transitional mechanisms provided for in the Act of 6 March 2020 to maintain employment after the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union in order to include the problem of coronavirus and long-term economic covid. An opinion from the National Labour Council on this subject is expected shortly. You have asked us a number of questions on the question of controls and, in this case, Mrs Houtmeyers. As far as controls are concerned, the Quality and Safety Directorate has made a particular effort to ensure safety in the care sector and of consumers in general by monitoring imports and placing on the market protective masks for the care sector and mouth masks for the general public. From the start of the corona crisis in March 2020, the Economic Inspectorate immediately made every effort to safeguard the interests of consumers and businesses. The focus of its actions was on monitoring and providing information to affected consumers and businesses. For the first aspect, covid files were given the first priority. Control files were launched following notifications but there was also a comprehensive proactive supervision involving the mobilisation of control agents to maintain the current crisis measures. Furthermore, a specific covid scenario was created in the FPS Economy hotline, making the controls much more efficient and allowing most detectors to provide appropriate advice automatically. In 2020 and 2021, the Economic Inspection deployed a significant part of its resources to monitor compliance with the corona measures, the fight against unfair practices and the correct application of aid measures. The powers of the Economic Inspectorate were systematically adapted and extended during the crisis period. They can be divided into two phases. During a first phase, starting in March 2020, the monitoring focused on fair market functioning. As from 1 December 2020, some crisis measures issued by the Consultation Committee were monitored. Regarding the control activities during a first phase of monitoring of the corona measures, i.e. between March 2020 and December 2020, I can state that during that first phase, the actions of the Economic Inspection focused on a proactive approach to the reports received, tackling all kinds of fraud related to the crisis and monitoring of some of the special crisis measures for which the Inspection was responsible, in particular the sales restrictions and safety of mouth masks and other protective equipment. I have several figures, but it might be easier to deliver them through the committee secretariat. On the application of abnormal prices and usury gains, unfair practices, in particular fictitious and fraudulent practices following the crisis, the follow-up of the voucher scheme in the event and travel sector and the control activities during the second phase of the monitoring of the corona measures, i.e. between December 2020 and October 2021, I can report the following. With effect from 1 December 2020, the Economic Inspectorate was granted, for the first time, certain powers in addition to the police and other inspection services under the crisis measures issued by the Consultation Committee and on the control of certain aspects of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020. Each adaptation of the Home Affairs Ministerial Decisions on Corona extended and/or modified the powers of the Economic Inspectorate. Since 1 December 2020, the Economic Inspection has checked 12,969 companies for compliance with the MB of October 2020. During these investigations, a total of 1,959 infringements were identified, which are the subject of 67 minutes and 1,143 warnings. Most of the infringements concerned the incorrect display of the measures, insufficient ventilation of the room and wearing of the mouth mask not or not correctly. In addition, the Economic Inspectorate continues to address all types of unfair trade practices related to the crisis. Measures to support the travel sector (buyers' vouchers, vouchers) and offenders are closely monitored. With regard to the issue of corona support measures and, in particular, that of corona unemployment, the ONEM Central Monitoring Service has provided for a series of checks, in particular on the basis of the data available in the various databases. Situations that may indicate that the allowances have been unduly collected are detected electronically and are subject to further administrative investigation. They are sent, if necessary, to the unemployment offices so that they can recover the benefits from the worker. Before such a decision is made, the employee has the opportunity to provide a justification. [[Various situations are covered: persons who have been temporarily unemployed for a single day in the months of March, April and May 2020; employers who use force majeure corona temporary unemployment while belonging to an essential sector as a company; employers who submit changing temporary unemployment declarations with more days of temporary unemployment for the same period; companies who recruit staff and immediately put them into temporary unemployment; employers who declare Dimona late for certain employees and retroactively issue a Social Risk Statement No. 5 for these employees; temporary full-time unemployment over a longer period in areas not subject to mandatory closure; a comparison between the registered telework reported to the ONSS and the number of days of temporary unemployment; employees who interrupt their time credit to return to work but are, in fact, temporarily unemployed, as well as another set of data and criteria taken into account for carrying out the checks.]] The detection of these potential situations of unduly received allowances is so effective that during the period up to 14 September 2021, on the basis of these detections, a total of 71,656 investigations were carried out. In 42 per cent of these investigations, or 30,351, a violation was found. In the first half of 2021, an amount of EUR 12 086 418.26 corresponding to 177 275 allowances has already been recovered. In the second half of 2021, an additional amount of EUR 10 117 040,73 corresponding to 148 733 allowances was recovered. In this way, it is expected that for 2021, a total of some €35 million of temporary unemployment benefits received during the Corona period will be recovered. Since fewer temporary unemployment benefits were paid in 2021, this amount will decrease in 2022, but the ONEM assumes that next year a total amount of approximately EUR 25 million of unduly collected temporary unemployment benefits will still be recovered. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, throughout the covid crisis, the SPF Economy has worked hard, whether on the issue of regulation or, in particular, being involved in the work that has been done on intellectual property on vaccines. You know that Belgium has actively participated in discussions at EU level on the topic of intellectual property and access to vaccines. The SPF Économie has also been particularly active in the field of communication to ensure that all the provisions decided upon in the Concertation Committee and their transcription in our legal arsenal are transmitted as soon as possible to the whole population and, in particular, to the economic actors. I can provide you with a series of specific elements and data as well as I will do in response to the questions that were addressed to me by Mrs Houtmeyers with the breakdown month by month, Region by Region of the various aid schemes that fall within my competence. It may be somewhat indigestible to transmit orally, but all the data are available and will be transmitted, via the chair and the committee secretariat, to the members.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic612x.u3	Deputy Prime Minister, we can publish all the documents on our extranet. This will provide all members with access to all data.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic612x.u4	Mr. Chair, ladies and gentlemen, first of all thank Minister Dermagne for his comprehensive presentation. As far as I am concerned, I will therefore be able to supplement the more specific part in relation to the self-employed. As my colleague has already said, the crisis has been particularly difficult for the self-employed and SMEs. Our economy has never been so shaken. That is why the federal government's support was essential. We see this well today, as the recovery becomes clearer and we see that thanks to the aid measures, governments have been able to limit the damage. Our economy has been severely affected, but it is recovering. It's a relief. However, if the evolution is positive, we must remain attentive. First of all, because the pandemic is not over. Then, for as we promised, we must leave no one at the edge of the way. As long as there are independents in difficulty because of this crisis, we will have to do our utmost to help them. Let us now look at the rather substantive aspects. As far as I am concerned, I will summarize the various measures taken within the framework of my ministerial competence. This is an exercise that I have already done in the Committee on Social Affairs, but I will also present it to you. There are three main axes. First, the right bridge of crisis. Secondly, the social contributions of self-employed workers. Finally, the various measures. After that, I can tell you more about the measures that are being taken in what is known as recovery. Aid measures. With regard to bridge law, since the beginning of the crisis in March 2020, we have granted 2.8 million bridge rights to 441,000 independents, knowing that there are 1.2 million independents. This means that one third of the independents used at least one gateway during this period. This represents an overall budgetary amount of EUR 5.2 billion. This is 47% of the total amount of federal support measures. One in two euro spent by the federal government to support the sectors was spent through the bridge law. That is to say the importance of the effort that has been made and the important needs that were facing us. In 2020, the share of this budget was 3.4 billion. Since the beginning of 2021, the figure has been $1.8 billion, which has been stopped by 15 September this year. I have received several questions regarding the recovery of undue bridge rights. I will come back to that more specifically earlier. In this regard, I can tell you that INASTI, with the help of social insurance funds, has already been able to recover 125 million in 2020 and 46 million in 2021. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that an unfair bridge right is not necessarily synonymous with fraud. There has been a lot of confusion in this regard. I want to be very clear: this amount is not a figure of fraud. These may be errors, or undue payments that may have been made without necessarily having been fraudulent. With regard to the social contributions of self-employed workers, as you know, the government has put in place various measures concerning them. Under certain conditions, these measures allow either a postponement or a reduction or an exemption from them. Finally, there is a variety of measures. Let me remind you that we have put in place the single right bridge bonus, the corona bonus and the free psychological aids for the self-employed. In addition to the crisis measures, the government also wants to work on the relance. We must continue to support the self-employed and SMEs, the engine of our economic activity, and their work must be properly rewarded. They are therefore central to the relance of the country. The government's measures will enable us to boost investment and growth and ensure the competitiveness of our companies. I can already tell you that several measures are being prepared in this area. The investment deduction will be strengthened and extended in order to promote the growth of SMEs. The focus is on digital and eco-positive investments, so that our SMEs can participate fully in Belgium's digital environmental transition and ensure its success. The tax shelter will also be strengthened. Investment ceilings per start-up and per growth enterprise will be doubled. Companies with significant growth potential will thus benefit from the support they need to develop. The zero contribution measure shall be maintained and its abuse shall be combated. This is an essential measure to help the self-employed to take a first step in recruitment. Other measures concern the status of self-employed persons. The thresholds for reducing the provisional social contributions of the self-employed are deleted. Instead, the self-employed person will be free to request the adjustment of these provisional contributions according to his income. As is already the case, the self-employed person will have to pay the supplement, with the increases, if it subsequently becomes apparent that he has wrongly applied for a reduction in his provisional contributions. Fifthly, in order to transform the classic right of bridging into a real revival instrument, this will be reformed after consultation with the General Management Committee for the Social Statute of the Self-employed. Sixthly, we also have a tax shift on the BBSZ, the Special Social Security Contribution, which applies to employees and civil servants, and in some cases also to the self-employed, as well as to supplementary social contributions for the self-employed, which are paid only by the self-employed. Those contributions will be reduced. The distribution between the BBSZ and the work bonus will be set at two thirds. A budget of EUR 300 million is foreseen for the three systems, civil servants, employees and the self-employed. The breakdown of this amount is still being analysed. Seventhly, the amount of maternity benefit for our self-employed women will be aligned with the women's coppice. As a result, the benefit is increased from EUR 514 per week to EUR 737 per week in case of full-time maternity leave. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here are some elements of balance sheet, perspective and foresight as far as I am concerned. Like my colleague, Pierre-Yves Dermagne, I can of course provide you with a whole series of additional figures that may be of interest to you, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic612x.u5	Thank you, Mr. Clarinval. Ladies and gentlemen, a great deal of basic information has been provided. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic612x.u6	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the ministers for appearing before the committee in such a short time. That's appreciated. Thank you also to the President and the Secretariat for managing everything and ensuring that we have all this information here today. Information that we have not yet received is a number of figures which I suppose we can receive as soon as possible, so that we can look at it in more detail. For example, I had asked about the breakdown by region. I don't know if that information is there. What I do not think is included unless I was absent at the time, is the information on the judicial sanctions. Has there been any mention of that? I heard about administrative sanctions: on top of the reimbursement, there may be an administrative penalty, but does it go beyond that? As far as bankruptcy is concerned, I would like to hear your expectations on this matter. While the support measures provided a buffer to many companies.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Moreover, there are problems with raw materials and deliveries from China that are waiting. Another major problem facing companies is the workforce, which poses a new threat, in conjunction with the corona crisis. How do you see this issue of bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic612x.u7	Mr President, I would have liked to make an appeal. Hopefully the Corona approach can be put behind us now. I'm someone who looks very closely at the future, and I want to focus on that. Since it is a debate, I would like to make my point. The main problems currently arising from the severe economic downturn caused by covid and the rapidly recovering economy, and which are also the cause of global inflation, are the sharp rise in natural gas and electricity prices, the shortage of raw materials, the supply chains that have problems and the shortage of the labour market. Those are three spearheads that are inextricably linked. I am in business every day and I come across all these facets every day: the deficits, the price increases with inflation, the job cut that presents a potential risk of stagflation, let us hope that we will not be able to do so and, thirdly, the support to the companies in which we will have to find a balance in the future. I'm someone who likes to think about possible solutions. We may well be able to tackle the deficits and price increases through strategic autonomy. Our values and supply chains need to become more resilient, so that we become strategically less dependent on certain raw materials and components from third countries, without becoming protectionist. This is important for the digital and ecological transition of our economy. I am also thinking of supporting the short supply chain, with logically a limited ecological footprint. This can be facilitated with a smart mileage tax for everyone, not just for companies. After all, passenger traffic is the main cause of traffic congestion. A short chain has the added advantage of having a better view of corporate social responsibility. The circular economy must also be supported so that there is less demand for primary raw materials. In my opinion, circular economy must always be profitable. There is no point in using subsidies alone. Supply and demand must always be aligned. I am teaching in the newspaper that Belgium can attract investors, given the ecological transition we are aiming for, with knowledge clusters in this matter. Politicians must put this issue in the spotlight every day and point out that we must not miss this future transformation. We must not forget that we are fighting an economic battle worldwide, and I will not call it war - and look for new balances. That is why we must not opt for economic stagnation. We can't stay on the side, because standing still means going backwards for everyone. Reliance on a balanced energy mix may also reduce supply dependence and price sensitivity. The strategic autonomy exercise will be carried out at European level, but will certainly also have to be carried out at Belgian level. Minister, I know that you are working on this, but I would like to know how far you stand on that. Secondly, in addition to raw materials, energy prices and the challenges of inflation, there is also a tight labour market. It is not excluded that the demand stimulation of the relance with the recovery plans will strengthen it. We also know that for every 100 people who retire over the next 10 years, only 81 young people are inundating. On top of the current deficit, there will be about 20% less inflow. We know the example of the construction sector, which has long been suffering from a shortage of qualified personnel. Foreign workers often cope with this shortage. Now, however, we do not see these workers returning soon either. In their home country, too, there is relance and wage and working conditions have greatly improved. In the current rhythm the situation can only get worse. In addition, there is the example of the logistics sector, where our employers are still struggling to find qualified truck drivers. In 2019 there were 5,500 vacancies available. This record is expected to fall in 2021. A long time ago there was also influx after the army service, as people in the army could train as a truck driver. However, that source of influx has also disappeared. Furthermore, certain government measures demotivate people to drive in our country, such as the fact that foreign transporters, alongside drivers, also have to bring their trucks to the home country on a regular basis. There is therefore no influx of drivers within the country and the influx from abroad is also getting smaller. That is why I call once again for as many people as possible to be involved in the labour market, in order to achieve an employment rate of 80%. In the labour market we now hear every day that our people no longer want to do certain jobs. I can't really accept that. It's like before in history, when the Italians helped us to mine the coal mines. We know that there are still a lot of inactive people in our country and I believe that none of them can afford to refuse that work. There are a lot of jobs open right now. In my opinion, every citizen must be willing to work and take responsibility for continuing to support our prosperity and our social security. Anyone who contributes doesn't need to be supported. That counts twice in the barrier, as it is popularly called. Contributions generate taxes, resulting in less expenditure on the budget and even additional revenue. So we all really have to go along with the cart. The government wants to help, I'm sure. The VDAB should also be better enabled. Good initiatives are already taking place across regional boundaries. Entrepreneurs must also help, but there is certainly also a need for real willingness to work for everyone. Particular attention should be paid not only to the unemployed but also to the inactive. For example, people of foreign origin often hide behind their culture in order not to have to work, but they still live here. If you are ill for a long time, you may be able to take a different job in part. As Minister of Economy and Labour, I think you should also encourage manual work. Often such work has less prestige, although many people really find their happiness in it. Many technical jobs and handicraft jobs also have a good wage. I can testify that the drivers in our company often go home with a higher wage than the servants who do office work. The perception that mental or administrative work is better must come out, because handy doers are certainly equal in our economy and must therefore also take up their role as a matter of urgency. Wages are therefore quite right to be comparable. I hope that very much attention will be paid to this. I ask you to cooperate. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the zombie companies and the better business dynamics. I am convinced that structurally healthy companies that were in trouble due to Corona have rightly received support and that the government has played its role there. But it is very important that non-viable companies are encouraged to either restructure or, if that is not possible, to disappear from the market. Just as social security is right for the people who really need it, companies should not count on support if they cannot actually be viable. Today's labour cut is the moment to do so, because the argument "these companies must continue to exist, because they also provide employment" is no longer valid. It is an ideal moment to respond to the new dynamics of young people and young companies that are present today with a positive story, unlike the demotivating story of people who are active in a non-viable business, where they are not motivated or get burn-outs, and where they feel that their job is not really fulfilling and does not mean a positive contribution. This is my most important call. I hope that the government will come up with ideas on this and really work to tackle this fundamentally and structurally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic612x.u8	Mr President, thank you to both ministers for the interesting explanations and answers. I'm not gonna say anything about the numbers right away. I think it might be useful for us to see it on paper, too. The general tendency is that we may be proud and that you have done well. There was a crisis and then you have to act quickly, because there was no plan to deal with the corona crisis and how we could support the self-employed. In the beginning there was still a need to be improved, which also seems obvious to me if they are to be dealt with for the first time. However, the government has always been open to adjusting, evaluating and updating the measures, depending on the needs. There was also a need to close loopholes, because there is always abuse even in the case of well-meaning measures. Luckily, that's not too bad. So I would certainly like to give a compliment to the government and all the ministers involved because we have done well here, especially in comparison with other countries. This summer I was told in Spain that there had been no support from the government, that they simply had to draw their plan. That is a big difference with our country, and Spain is not far from Belgium at all. The measure of temporary unemployment was also very efficient and effective. This is also proved by the figures. There are now a lot of recovery measures and the engine of the economy is turning back to full strength. Relance measures focus on digitisation and sustainability. We all agree with that, as has been said several times in committee. When I talk to entrepreneurs now, they're all jumping to be active again. They often don't follow their order books anymore. Their great concerns have already been raised here by my colleague Kathleen Verhelst. They are no longer getting raw materials or their raw materials have increased enormously. As a ship of Public Works of Dendermonde I notice that some yards are falling apart because there are no workers to be found. The cost of some materials is sometimes 30 percent higher. I am very worried about that, too. The economy is in full swing, everyone wants to get to work, but it is a clear signal that there are not enough hands, no raw materials and that, in the absence of chips, people sometimes have to wait up to a year for a stupid washing machine or a car. Of course, those aren't good signals. What will you do about it? Everyone is ready to work, but there are still a number of problems which may cause the economic engine to fall silent again, with all the consequences. How will the government react to this in order to control raw materials, to ensure that there are sufficient materials and to provide sufficient staff? Without staff, of course, we cannot keep the economic engine running. I don't have a ready answer myself, but I look forward to your suggestions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic612x.u9	Mr President, we were just talking about temporary unemployment. You said that 31% of the payments were made wrongly, but hopefully we misinterpreted that. That seems to me to be a great deal. It was maybe 31% of the files examined? [[Assent]] You nod, and that makes sense to me. Minister Dermagne and I are not always on the same page about the market distortion caused by the support to non-viable companies, especially when it comes to zombie companies, which is something the N-VA has a different view of. What is Minister Clarinval's vision of these zombie companies and how they deal with them? Minister Clarinval, you have given a very beautiful symbol of maternity benefit for women. This would be increased for the self-employed. It may not make a world of difference. It may not cause women to undertake, but it is a good thing that these women are given a little more support at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic612x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I confirm what Mrs Houtmeyers has said: it is the percentage and the number of cases that have been found to be problematic on the basis of the targeted checks. This does not necessarily involve fraud, sometimes there are also errors in the way the files were introduced and processed. But these files force us to recover the money paid. I have quoted a series of criteria that are used to target controls, in particular on the basis of datamining. I can give you the full list, about 20 of them. It therefore seems that the percentage of problematic files is important, but it is because controls are particularly well targeted. It is always difficult to predict the future. The figures are more reassuring than expected. The recovery is stronger and faster, but there are some worrying factors: rising energy costs, rising prices for certain raw materials, including microprocessors, rising transport costs, and labour market tensions and shortages in a range of sectors, including construction, horeca and health care. I could list the measures that have been validated by the government as part of the restart plan, but I think that will be the subject of a specific debate. There is a real will to tackle the issue of shortages in these sectors in consultation and collaboration with the Regions and the social partners. This fight against shortages will not be carried out if it is not done in consultation with the Regions and the social partners. This is really a job that will be continued in the next few days. It was initiated within the framework of the Interministerial Employment Conference, but the desire is to be able to respond to the concerns and demands not only of the sectors but also of the Regions in this context. I now turn to "zombie companies", because they are a point of attention. I would also not like support measures or public money to go into the pockets of zombie companies and entrepreneurs who are not correct. In the context of discussions with the social partners in the National Labour Council on new schemes for economic unemployment, these enterprises receive full attention. And it is up to us to ensure that the aid goes to those companies that really need it and have prospects for the future. This is clearly one of my concerns, which, moreover, joins yours, Mrs Houtmeyers. These are the elements of reflection and reaction to your questions and concerns!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic612x.u11	Mrs Houtmeyers, we do not have the breakdown of bridge aids between regions, but the breakdown by fund of allowances. Some caisses work in both Flanders and Wallonia. We don't have the numbers. Asking INASTI would be an exercise to do. On the other hand, we have the other figures. As far as legal sanctions are concerned, INASTI has worked in collaboration with the Labour Auditorate: 171 legal proceedings have been opened, 72 of which are closed (I cannot tell you in what direction); 99 proceedings are still open at present. We therefore collaborate with the labour auditorate when legal and judicial issues arise. As far as bankruptcies are concerned, the future remains difficult to foresee. As a natural optimist, I see that the current figures are relatively low. We do not see a significant increase in the number of bankruptcies. Then we worked with Minister Van Quickenborne on a reform of the PRJ, an additional tool to avoid certain bankruptcies. Having met my French counterpart recently, it turns out that the phenomenon is identical in France. There are fewer bankruptcies as well as at home (support measures seem to have been effective), but, paradoxically, there is a greater increase in the number of self-employed than usual. There are two ways of seeing things, but it's not because there's more fraud. It is simply because, during this crisis – and perhaps it is a psychological phenomenon – a whole series of people decided to reorient their activity. Or it was meant, because they came at a time in their career when they felt there might be something to do about reorienting to a self-employed career. Either it was forced, because there are also people who may have had to reorient themselves, because they were temporarily unemployed for too long and they chose another way. There's still a phenomenon. Surprisingly, the French know exactly the same phenomenon. So this is not typical of our country. I see positive signs in relation to the evolution of bankruptcies. But, of course, we are not safe. As Mr Dermagne said, we cannot predict the future. With regard to Mrs Verhelst's questions on the rise in the price of raw materials, this increase is cause for great concern; I share your analysis. I kept a few contacts in the business community. It is true that in construction, which I know very well in particular, the price has sometimes gone from simple to double. Metal has doubled in prices in a few months. A simple beam costs twice as much as six months ago. This phenomenon is not unique to Belgium. It is a global phenomenon. At the wood level, for example, the cause of the increase in wood, initially, is the fact that the Americans decided not to buy wood in Canada anymore. So they came to buy wood, among other things, in Belgium. Today, it is the Chinese who seize the timber market. So there is an increase in prices, but here too it is a global phenomenon. I could talk about other materials, but we're not here for that. We share the observation. We see, indeed, that this phenomenon generates inflation and a lack of materials in the end. In this way, construction sites are at a standstill. This can be seen in other areas. At European level, there are probably steps to be taken to protect our sectors. Here, honestly, in these international markets, it is difficult at the federal level to take action on the variation in raw materials. As far as the tension in the labour market is concerned, Mr Dermagne has already said, the government has decided on a whole series of measures "to combat labour shortages in certain sectors". I want to summarize this in a rather strong way. On the one hand, there are incentives to take. For example, the tax shift led by our colleague Van Peteghem is in the right direction, as it will increase workers' pocket wages. It will be an incentive to return to work. There will also need to be a debate on sanctions. Indeed, at some point, when there are abuses and when, in terms of sickness or unemployment, a situation is misused, sanctions must be imposed. For example, both the incentive and the sanctions are being applied to address labour market shortages; but for me, both aspects need to be addressed within government. I'm going to zombie companies. It's a job I did when I was a member of Parliament a few years ago. We must not confuse zombie companies with ghost companies. For ghost companies, the work was carried out a few years ago under the auspices of Minister Koen Geens. We had worked at the time so that the courts could really clean up thousands of phantom companies that were polluting the courts and, indeed, as Mr Dermagne said earlier, sometimes receive aid when they are no longer technically there; they are finally empty shells that can be used for a series of frauds. The legislative arsenal was revised a few years ago to allow the courts to quickly eliminate all phantom enterprises. There are, no doubt, still some courts that have not done their job. Indeed, according to the figures provided to me some time ago, some courts had actually done their job, while others had not yet had time to do so. At this level, there is something to be done. In the case of zombie companies which are still active, but which are no longer likely to be sufficiently profitable, which face major difficulties or whose balance sheets are being questioned, Graydon said that they accounted for 2 to 4 per cent of companies in the middle of the crisis. Clearly, aid should not be diverted to these companies. But it is not necessarily up to the state to decide which zombie companies are. The market plays its part and a zombie company that is not artificially supported will necessarily go bankrupt. It is a natural phase in the life of a society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic612x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your feedback. It seems interesting to me to see what the figures are, broken down by region, which is not yet available. At what time can we learn more about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic612x.u13	It's a technical question. I'll ask the RSVZ if that's technically possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic612x.u14	If possible, that document will also be delivered to the committee. We will then distribute it via the extranet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic612x.u15	I still have a small reaction regarding the zombie companies. The zombie companies that are not artificially supported will go bankrupt. But it is mostly about the fact that zombie companies should not be artificially supported. That's a little nuance. On the labour question, I find it particularly regrettable that some people do not want to do certain jobs anymore. We hear that from our people and from the recruitment agencies. The people who work in my company also find that difficult and annoying. This is no longer about the opposition left-right, employer-worker but about a contradiction between people who work and people who do not work. People have to work as something positive. People should be happy to be able to work. It's hard on people who get up every day to work that there are a lot of people who don't work. I think this is the biggest pain point. If you are entitled to a pension, you are, of course, right to be inactive, but perhaps a number of people can still carry on an activity. I just want to stress that there is a polarisation between people who work and contribute to the budget and social security and the inactive. So people who can handle working really need to be encouraged to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic612x.u16	I suggest that we close the proceedings here. I should like to thank the ministers for coming and the colleagues for the free and feminine debate. It's the women working on the economy. It's a fix.
