ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u2	Prime Minister, the situation is still serious. With more than 900 people in intensive care, it is impossible to reopen everything now. We all know that. The Horeca knows it and the event knows it too. But it is no longer possible to continue this way, with sector-by-sector closures and openings. We must move on to a place-by-place opening, under penalty of widespread stalling. At the bottom, that's what you started to do with the Horeca and the terraces. I ask you today to make the same effort for culture and events. This is a sector which, since the beginning of the year, has already lost EUR 41 million. It's a boiling area. You may have seen the planned demonstrations: more than 80 cultural places have announced that they will take action from 30 April. It is a sector that has been making proposals for serious health protocols for months, taking into account the seriousness of the health situation. These protocols have remained a dead letter so far. I think it's time to listen to them. To put it simply: if we are able to open terraces to relieve the Horeca, we must be able to open air-conditioned showrooms in order to relieve culture and events. This will not only be positive for the sectors concerned, it will contribute to the good mental health of the population. The same applies to fair and exhibition activities. According to some information, a protocol specific to the forest sector is under consideration, but we do not know any more. Prime Minister, why have the test events we've been talking about for so long not yet been put in place? Why do we have to wait hard next week for this to happen? What about the specific reopening protocol for fairgrounders and exhibitors? Will there be financial support for the event sector and for the economic activity of fairgrounders and exhibitors in case, unfortunately, they should be kept closed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u3	Madam President, Mr De Smet, we are indeed moving towards a new phase in crisis management. In the first wave, our answer was to stop society in its entirety. In the second wave, we focused more on certain sectors. Today, during this new phase, crisis management consists of allowing the resumption of activities outside the country from 8 May, if the situation continues to evolve as it evolves today. In this new phase, we are focusing on risk management, which should allow activities to take place, but above all, that these activities can continue to take place, even if at some point the epidemiological situation is to deteriorate, which is still possible. Crisis management is based on protocols and working methods that we know much better today. The second element is the vaccination campaign, which offers us stability. According to the figures published yesterday, 70 per cent of the population over 65 years of age in our country received the first dose of the vaccine, representing 27 per cent of the adult population. This has an effect, which will further accelerate in the coming weeks. The goal is clearly to allow us to lead a more enjoyable life, with more freedoms, but also a safe life. That is the balance we are seeking to achieve. With regard to the support measures, as you heard yesterday, a package of support measures was announced. Some of these measures are clearly aimed at the cultural sector, in particular the decision to lower social charges on the re-employment of people who are now temporarily unemployed. These measures apply to everyone, and I believe that the cultural and event sectors would be the first to benefit from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u4	Prime Minister, thank you for your reply, especially on aid. I would like to stress that this is not just health and economics. By opening a few doors, for example air-conditioned theatres, as there are a large number of them in our country, where events could be organised, as is the case in Luxembourg, Portugal and other European countries, we also give a little air. As you know, even without any British variation, before the beginning of this third wave, we were still on a plateau. This means that membership is lost. This means that even without the variants, you have too many events, too many people who do not respect the health rules. With the opening of the terraces as for tomorrow, I hope, if you go in that direction, with the opening of some cultural places, say that we not only participate in the economic relief of these sectors, we also participate in the health fight against the virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u5	Prime Minister, spring is gaining strength and the sense of terraces is getting stronger. The vaccination strategy is also really starting to run at full power. The vaccination rate of 70% for our seniors will be reached. The higher the vaccination rate, the more we can hope for a quick return to normal. Hope, look for, desire, for sure. We must, of course, keep an eye on the figures, Mr Dedecker. After all, they need to get better. The opening of the terraces is currently planned for 8 May. Tomorrow the Consultation Committee will meet and there will be some pertinent questions: how many people can we sit on a terrace; until what time can we do that; with whom can we sit on a terrace. Mr Minister, I would like to make one case here, both for the catering industry and for the customers, keep it simple and keep it logical. No one benefits from complicated rules. Entrepreneurs need clarity, not additional burdens. Prime Minister, whatever the decision of the Consultative Committee will be tomorrow, we can say that there has been a great deal of work for the catering industry, thanks to you, thanks to your MR Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and also thanks to the commitment of the sector organisations. After all, the latter referred to the package as historic last night. We have always said that we would continue to support the most pleasant sector of the country and yesterday you kept your word. Prime Minister, I have two questions. Firstly, what is the situation with regard to the procedures for reopening the sector? Secondly, yesterday you came up with a historic package of support. However, this will not be enough on the road to full reopening. Can you confirm once again that the government will not abandon the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u6	I am shocked because yesterday at the committee you made it appear that you are the only one concerned about the health situation. You find it strange that questions are being asked about the measures taken. I was even more surprised when you said yesterday that you did not actually have any scientific evidence for the measures taken. You don't have that evidence, and that's why you and your government are pursuing a trial and error policy, each time you pull something new out of the top hat. We also saw this when shopping by appointment where you promoted the shop clerks to secretaries who had to write down their name and telephone number at the entrance to the store. Also for the catering operators it is particularly acidic if you cannot demonstrate the effectiveness of the measures, especially now that the virus has not been unknown for a year. A donkey doesn't hit the same stone twice. The madness is unbridled. One can invite 10 people at home, but if one arrives too late from the café or restaurant, one has to leave in groups of three. You can invite whoever you like at home, but if you go to a café or restaurant, you can only do so with the family. Because of the fickleness of your coalition partners and the fact that you are changing perspectives like underwear, you put the catering industry in its shirt, not to mention the discussion about the closing hour that is currently being fought out in the media. What about the opening date and closing time of the catering industry on 8 May? Do you maintain it or withdraw it again? Will you correct the unlogic around the bubbles at home and the terraces?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u7	Madam President, Prime Minister, yesterday, a €835 million envelope was released by the government to help the Horeca. This is obviously an excellent thing. In particular, VAT is reduced to 6%, including for alcohol. That's great news for coffee makers. The ONSS discounts, the double right bridge for the month of May, even if the terraces are open, and other measures that are extremely positive. I sincerely welcome the work that has been done by the government, including the independent minister, Mr.Clarinval. These measures are extremely positive. They were expected and important. But they will only make sense, Prime Minister, if we really allow them to reopen, to work. Otherwise, they're not on the road. It will indeed be necessary – and I hope you will confirm this – for the terraces to reopen, but above all under what conditions? Will we be able to enjoy a service at the restaurant at night? Are we going to be able to get together in the Horeca with our entire family? Or are we going to have to have separate bubbles? These are fundamental questions, just a few days from a reopening of the terraces. We really need to give clear indications, because without normal and acceptable conditions of reopening, it will not be tenable, especially since a majority of restaurateurs have announced that opening only the terraces would be insufficient to be able to hold the head out of the water, and therefore they would not reopen. It is really necessary, and I am counting on you for the Codeco of tomorrow, to announce even more positive measures to be able to continue to believe in this general reopening of the Horeca on June 10. It's really fundamental. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u8	Thank you for your questions. The Consultative Committee will make the decisions we took on Wednesday more operational tomorrow. Don't expect new measures to be announced tomorrow or new relaxations will be announced. On Wednesday, together with all the governments, we decided on the route. Now we must go a step further, Mrs Reuter, and decide in detail how we will organise the activities outside, which we expect to be possible from 8 May. We will also decide which course we will take in the field of events and the cultural sector. From next week there will be test events. It has never happened since World War II that the catering industry has been closed for so long. Its opening, outside, is now being prepared by a lot of entrepreneurs. We too, the customers, are actually preparing for that. The government has, of course, seen that this sector is in a particularly precarious situation. That is why the government has decided to release a large part of the 835 million euro package for the catering industry and businesses with a long-term reduced level of activity. I would like to take this opportunity to go a little more into the measures: - reduction of VAT from 12 % to 6 % for meals and from 21 % to 6 % for beverages. This gives immediate oxygen to entrepreneurs as soon as they start; - exemption from the annual contribution of the holiday money. Avoiding these costs at a difficult time of opening will specifically help those who restart; - a boost for re-employment with a reduction in social security contributions; not only for the Horeca but for all the companies that make a difficult choice today, to take over someone who was unemployed in technical terms, while saying: "I'm going to start working again but I'm going to have to take over this entire wage burden". This reduction in social security contributions will be welcome. This has been the subject of close consultation with the sector, and it is of course a pleasure to see that the sector has responded very positively to the measures taken. This shows that if we work together and understand each other well, we can get very far in our country. In parallel, the double bridging right remains valid, as the government has decided, also for the catering business that reopens. That makes sense, because the catering business only opens outside and under certain conditions, which means that in some cases the activity will be severely limited. The aid will therefore continue to apply logically. The reopenings will take place on the basis of a protocol. It may be a restriction on activity, so we still have to provide the necessary financial support. Everyone's looking forward to the re-opening steps. Those steps of reopening are very clearly set out. First, during the month of May, we reopen outside, because it is safer outside. Then we give perspective, from June, to be able to re-open inside and eventually also with larger numbers. These measures must make our lives more enjoyable and freer. We've been looking forward to that for a long time. It is possible to do so in a perfect balance with safety: a more pleasant life, but at least an equally safe life. This means that we will do so gradually, step by step, as we must maintain that shaky balance. The situation in our country is much better than in other countries. That is the merit of our entire population. I think that we are now entering a stage in which we can go a step further, but we are calling on the common sense of everyone to do so with caution and not to waste or throw out what we have achieved by returning to a dangerous situation. The vaccination campaign gives us solid ground, stability. In our country yesterday we reached the 70 per cent vaccination cape of those over 65. This means that this whole group will be protected in the coming weeks thanks to immunisation. It means that today, 27% of the adult population has been vaccinated. This puts us in the sixth place in Europe today for the first vaccination syringe. We are one of the better countries in Europe and we are showing that we can perfectly manage the organisation of such complex operations. I would like to make another last call: get vaccinated! It is an individual choice but as soon as you do, the sooner you will be free and, above all, as soon as possible you will give freedom to others and especially to the young people who are waiting for this moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u9	Mr Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for your very detailed answer, in which you spoke not only about the catering industry but also about vaccination. It's a good thing you've gone into that, too. Everyone agrees that the Catering Organizations had very important and very legitimate questions. With the historic package, these are not my words and not the words of Prime Minister De Croo but of the sector itself. With the temporary VAT reduction, including on alcohol, the exemption from the holiday allowance, the reduction of the RSZ contribution and the flexible student jobs, we do not abandon the catering sector. Tomorrow, you will return to the table with your colleagues from the federal government and the state governments to make the right decisions in the general interest, including on and for the catering sector. The vast majority here in the Chamber supports your policy. It is only through responsible action that we will find the way out of the current crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u10	Prime Minister, I take the state of health of our people seriously, just as I take their freedoms and the economic situation of Flanders seriously. You have not only given the catering sector a shock effect. You have electrocuted him with fickleness, lack of leadership, illogical measures that have no scientific basis and a communication that is not unambiguous. How can you count on understanding of the population? How can you count on the understanding of the catering sector for your measures, when your measures are loose ends and your coalition partners are drumming around to send contradictory statements to the world? The Flemish Interest requires efficient and targeted measures, which work. Prime Minister, take up the glove and stop playing with the feet of the catering industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u11	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. As I said, these extremely important measures were expected and will give a little air to the horeca sector. Vaccination is accelerating, so we can slowly see a more favourable horizon and begin to give these famous perspectives to the still closed areas. I ask you, of course, to keep in mind tomorrow the possibilities for this sector, so that it can work and so that its activity and reopening on 8 May will be profitable. I also ask you to keep in mind those sectors which are waiting to be able to reopen, in particular the event or the culture, in order to allow them to prepare themselves and to have guidelines and guidelines in order to make the necessary adjustments and investments for a safe reopening.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u12	Madam Chair, Minister, on April 19, an agreement was reached on the allocation of the wellness envelope. It is therefore a little over one billion euros that will be distributed over 2021 and 2022 and that will increase various social benefits. In addition, the key to the distribution between employed and self-employed will be maintained. Indeed, after weeks and months of deadlock, we can only rejoice at this agreement on the welfare envelope. As a result of this agreement, the negotiations now focus on the following sequence: the wage margin. The maximum margin was set at 0.4% by the Central Economic Council in addition to the planned 2.8% automatic indexation and baraemic adjustments. In view of the exceptional circumstances of the covid-19, however, the government recognizes the possibility for the social partners to negotiate, on an ad hoc and exceptional basis, additional measures in companies that have been successful during the crisis, provided that a comprehensive agreement takes place. The government leaves until 1 May to the social partners the task of agreeing on wage negotiations within the framework of well-defined benchmarks as well as on other equally important issues on the table. Minister, are you confident of a successful outcome for PIA 2021-2022? I imagine you are maintaining the dialogue with the social partners on an ongoing basis. Can you summarize the state of play of the negotiations? There's a little more than a week left. Are all the lights green or on the contrary, are there any major points of disagreement? If so, what are they? Finally, to conclude, what will happen if there is an adventure – and we do not, of course, want it – the negotiations are to fail in this respect? In this case, what action would the government take on the attached files?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u13	Minister, a few days ago the agreement between the social partners on the welfare envelope was announced. One of the most striking elements of that agreement is the sharp increase in unemployment benefits: an additional increase to 3.5 % is added to the previously announced 4.5 % and on top of the automatic indexation. This naturally reduces the difference between working at the lowest wages and not working against increased unemployment benefits, and that is not the best way to get people back to work faster. However, it is the government's intention to do so unless you would say otherwise later, but that would surprise me to increase the level of activity in our country to 80%, where today it is only 70%. Last year he even fell and he will not rise by himself, certainly not by not making work more attractive compared to work, and that is exactly what is happening now with the sharp increases in unemployment benefits. Degressivity in unemployment benefits, its decline as a longer period of unemployment, is, of course, also an important incentive to get people to work. It is precisely this mechanism that is now being undermined, precisely on your behalf, Minister, on behalf of the De Croo Government. I am not just saying that; the social partners have also warned against this. So I'd like to know three things. What will you do to ensure that the welfare envelope does not undermine the degressivity of unemployment benefits? What concrete measures will you take to increase the level of activity in our country to 80%? Why did you propose to increase unemployment benefits much more strongly under this welfare envelope than other benefits, such as sickness benefits?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u14	Minister, this Monday, it was social consultation that won. On Monday, employers' and workers' representatives reached an agreement on the allocation of the welfare envelope. I would like once again to congratulate the social partners. With my group, we've been saying this for weeks and we asked you: we had to split these two files. Thank you to this government for taking on its responsibilities. That replacement incomes can follow a curve that is comparable to wages is essential. This minimizes the risk of falling into poverty. This decision on the wellness envelope is a good thing. Now, it is 1 billion that will be able to be used over the next two years to improve social benefits and covid unemployment. I am thinking in particular of the lowest allowances and their increase. I'm thinking of sickness benefits, co-op unemployment. It was a strong commitment of the government to leave no one behind. I am pleased that this increase in the lowest allocations can finally be implemented. This is a good thing because now the social partners will be able to continue to focus on the interprofessional agreement itself. It is on the 1st of May that you have given as the deadline: an agreement will have to be reached for that date. We agreed that better increases could be considered wherever possible. When 40% of publicly traded companies maintain or increase their dividends in 2021, it is known that there are places where this is possible. There are sectors that have suffered less from the crisis. The points of attention that we have for this forthcoming IPA remain the same as those we have already mentioned, in particular that efforts to increase low wages or that equal pay are not accounted for and that consideration is given to the concept of competitiveness. Minister, can you take stock of the situation? How do you intend to support these negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u15	Madam Chair, Minister, a strike took place on March 29. It has been very well supported by the world of work: 70% of metallurgical enterprises have been affected, according to Agoria. The movement was clearly very deep, and the workers asked a simple question. "Why, in this country, while 40% of publicly traded companies are paying higher dividends this year than the previous year, our wages could not increase by more than 0.4%?" These workers have asked the question here in Belgium. Why CEOs, like Delhaize's, etc. Can they continue to raise their wages while their wages are limited to 0.4%? Why, while BEL20 companies are remitting €5 billion in dividends this year, are workers' wages blocked at 0.4%? It is on this democratic and social debate that everything is blocking. You, Minister, send a letter to the social partners, who are rather social partners, and you put an ultimatum to them. The one says, "If you don't agree, it'll be 0.4%." And when do you send this ultimatum, dear friends, dear comrades? On May 1st, a date that is normally a symbol of social conquests, wage advances, paid leave, reduction of working time. You, as a socialist, did not find anything better than saying that May 1 will be the symbol of 0.4%, otherwise nothing! That's a problem, isn't it, Minister? This means that in the negotiations by 1 May, what will the employers do? He will not agree, because he knows very well that the Socialist Minister agrees with him and that it will be 0.4% or nothing! You make the balance of power and negotiation impossible to get above 0.4%. So why did you set such an ultimatum? Why did you take a stand in your letter to block at 0.4%? This is the question that the world of work is asking itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you said, of course I welcome the agreement reached between the social partners on the allocation of the welfare envelope for employees and assistance allowances. I'm glad. This is a particularly important agreement for more than 1 million people in our country. This is an increase in aid for pensioners, job seekers, sick and disabled people, workers with an accident at work or an occupational disease, people with a living wage, persons with a disability who are entitled to an income replacement allowance and those over 65 who are entitled to an income guarantee for the elderly. Allow me, because it is important for the million people concerned, to give you some concrete examples. Minimum pensions will increase by EUR 60 per month from 1 July, or EUR 720 per year. For social integration income and income replacement allowance for persons with disabilities, the increase will be around €45 per month, or €550 per year. In the area of unemployment, the calculation ceilings will be increased. For example, for a head of household, the ceiling will be increased by EUR 30.16. The minimum unemployment benefits will be increased by €47.58 per month for heads of household, €26.78 for single persons and €21.58 for cohabitants. Since the entry into office of this government, minimum allowances have already increased by more than 33 euros for cohabitants, by more than 39 euros for isolated persons and by almost 63 euros for heads of household. These allocations will increase further during the legislature through the decisions taken by the government and through a new welfare envelope to be allocated in 2023. As you know, the purpose of this mechanism set up in 2005 by Laurette Onkelinx is that these social benefits do not earn wages and that their beneficiaries do not get poorer. This is necessary to guarantee their purchasing power. It is also necessary to guarantee them a dignified life. It has also been found to be effective in supporting economic recovery in our country. Between the first and the second wave, the recovery was mainly supported by domestic private demand, i.e. by households consuming in Belgium. This is an important element to recall. This agreement is also within the framework of the objectives set by this government. The fight against poverty, and more specifically the increase in social benefits towards the poverty line, is a firm commitment of this government, as is the raising of the minimum pension to around €1,500 net. This reinforces the increases in social benefits that were decided in this Parliament and are already in force this year. As you know, this agreement is the result of many initiatives taken by the Prime Minister and myself. It is part of a larger two-part system, on the one hand, an opinion on well-being and on the other hand negotiations on the interprofessional agreement. The social partners are currently negotiating daily wage increases for all employees in the private sector and important issues such as minimum wage, extra hours and runways. Ladies and gentlemen, my role as Minister for Social Concertation is to ensure that this social concertation takes place and that it can lead to agreements. That is what I have done since I took office, in a context that is the one we know and that is not a simple context, because of the legal provisions and the unprecedented crisis that we are going through. However, these negotiations are essential. They are part of our democratic model and the social model of our country. I believe that they must also take place in a calm manner, with respect for the social partners, who have called for discretion in these negotiations. I respect this request for discretion. You know my position and you know the commitments made by this government, particularly by the Prime Minister and myself, in the various letters addressed to the social partners, which have allowed for progress and the release of this welfare envelope and the resumption of negotiations on the wage standard and other important issues. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll stay here. I think today is the time for the social partners. We must give them time and space to negotiate, this is the will of this government. The agreement that will be reached between the social partners – as soon as possible, I hope – will be respected and implemented by this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u17	Minister, thank you for that clarification. Two things that we can rejoice at: on the one hand, social dialogue has been able to resume, which is all the more essential in the context of the crisis that we are experiencing. That is what we have always advocated. On the other hand, we welcome the fact that the 1996 law can be applied again and remains mandatory. So there was no reason to want to change it. That's what we've always said. We are in the last straight line: the deadline of May 1 is close. The desire to succeed in socio-economic recovery imposes a sense of responsibility on each partner. We are convinced that a peaceful consultation will lead to an interprofessional agreement in the coming days. Minister, we thank you for being attentive, as we are, to the situation of workers and businesses, and for being with them to accompany them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u18	Of course, Minister, there is nothing wrong with raising the social minimums, but we must take account of the increase in these minimums outside the welfare envelope. This is not happening today, which reduces the difference between non-working and minimum wage. Of course, that doesn't encourage people to get to work. I would also like to point out that not only are the lowest unemployment benefits rising, but the highest unemployment benefits are being increased. So that has nothing to do with the social minimums anymore. You have not actually answered any of my three questions. That's okay because it shows perfectly that it's not the ambition of this government to increase the efficiency rate to 80%. If you hadn't, you'd have gone for it. Looking for activation measures from this government is basically looking for a needle in a haystack. That makes it very clear who's wearing the pants in this government. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you a hint, it is certainly not the liberals. This government does not aim for job creation, the government-De Croo becomes a pure welfare government in an instant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u19	Mr Minister, thank you for your confidence in the social partners. It is a trust that I obviously share. I hear your wish for discretion that I respect perfectly. This is the wish of the social partners. Let's respect him, too! As for increasing the lowest allowances, many have been talking about them for a very long time. This government did. For us, impoverishing people and leaving them in poverty does not put them into employment and does not advance social progress. For us, increasing social benefits was a priority. I am looking forward to being part of the majority that is moving forward, acting and doing what it has announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u20	Minister, did you see how happy he was, the MP for the MR! We've got a win! The 1996 Act remains applicable! Is that what we're going to celebrate on May 1st, Comrade? Are we going to say on this occasion that the MR has won, when we have all the arguments here to be able to win? The minister took a position. He sent a letter saying that if there was no agreement on May 1, it would be the application of 0.4%. That's what's wrong! Stop saying that negotiation can take place in discretion, etc.- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's not true. The minister has taken a position and I ask him to change his mind, to say "freedom of negotiation". This is the real freedom to be able to give. Do not take a stand in this folder! You can't tell trade union organisations: "If you don't agree, it'll be 0.4%". As you know, this will lead to a complete blockage. And stop talking about bonuses, bonuses, etc. You know very well that a bonus is not recurrent. This must be renegotiated every year and, through bonuses, no contribution is made for pensions. The problem with the PS is we have to stop the blabla. You have to have real increases. Today, I ask for a position from the minister that real linear increases may be possible on May 1, so that we can celebrate a real victory in the world of work because, today, the rich become richer and the poor become poorer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u21	Minister, the measures taken to combat the pandemic, to save lives, to allow hospitals to care, and for students to go to school, were necessary, but they hurt. They always hurt. For more than a year, some sectors have been almost full time at a standstill, and all workers drink. Culture, horeca, event, contact jobs. Our responsibility is to allow them to recover, to restart. The state must show that it is a bulwark. We had to take emergency measures, such as temporary unemployment corona, bridge law, expansion of artist status, support for CPAS. Today, as the situation improves and prospects for reopening are emerging, we need to shift from emergency management to recovery support. And now, Minister, you have released more than $800 million to support the recovery. We welcome the measures that will make it possible to restore prospects for workers who are hit hard by the crisis, the measures that will enable the unemployed to be rehired, the measures that will give oxygen to young people who are not qualified to find a job, the students to find a job. When we say that we support the reopening of the terraces, it does good to the morale of all Belgians, to the bosses of restaurants and cafes, and it puts it back to work. This makes a real salary for the servers that have been unemployed since the fall, for divers, and it allows us to re-engage job students and give hope to the hairdressers, the shampoos, the beauticians. The Kern announced yesterday 835 million additional aid for sectors in difficulty, sometimes closed for more than a year. These are therefore various and very positive measures. So my question is simple. Can you give further details of these measures to help sectors in difficulty that have been decided by Kern? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u22	Madam Member, your question allows me to take stock of both the measures taken yesterday by the government as a whole and the measures taken in recent months. You recalled a few of them, in particular the increased temporary corona unemployment, the double right of access granted to self-employed persons forced to close and a series of other more specific measures, sector by sector. I am thinking of measures to support the travel sector – we are talking about more than EUR 30 million – or measures specific to the events and culture sectors for more than EUR 23 million. Particular attention was also paid to workers in the cultural sector who were unable to exercise their profession and passion – almost a priesthood – with measures to improve their protection, maintain their specific status despite the absence of artistic benefits or raise the amount of their allowances. The Prime Minister responded in part in the context of the inquiries addressed to him. Yesterday we decided to grant a new package of measures for almost EUR 835 million. You know that I have always been a supporter of the fact that when measures are needed and they impact sectors, it is also necessary to take compensatory measures to accompany these sectors, entrepreneurs and workers. This is what we did yesterday, with a focus on Horeca, with a 6% reduction in VAT and the financing of paid leave for workers in the sector, with the introduction of a protective premium to guarantee the purchasing power of workers in the contact trades, as well as measures to reduce contributions to enable them to return to employment, whether it be job creation or return to work after temporary unemployment. This is essential to enable the recovery, to accompany it in the particularly affected sectors. Of course, it is not an end in itself. Willingness is a return to normal as soon as possible, to revive our economy and ensure that it returns to normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u23	Minister, this crisis has affected sectors, men and women who, for more than a year, did not know what their next day would be. Gradually, we are looking at prospects for recovery and gradual reopening. A breath of oxygen, hope, but above all a salary for all those workers who have been arrested. To help these temporary unemployed and job students stop, you have taken strong measures to match the situation: 835 million euros, this is a real prospect for many citizens, allowing targeted and necessary measures on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u24	Madam President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, the travel sector is one of the sectors most affected by the covid pandemic in our country. Airports, tour operators, airlines and travel agencies have been out of revenue for over a year, with no turnover, and have suffered heavy losses. Last Monday, the travel ban on non-essential travel within the EU was lifted. That is a very good thing. This provides a perspective for the sector. But we're far from here. The population also craves freedom of travel. There are hundreds of thousands of Belgians who are looking forward to travelling abroad in one way or another this summer. Therefore, the travel sector must start organising today so that they can make the bookings when they are allowed to travel abroad again. I was at the airport this week and I talked to several companies there. It has become clear to me that they are all asking for a coherent European approach to travel this summer. A country like Greece, for example, is preparing to receive tourists on its many islands today. Other countries are also working on this. Coronaproof, of course. A European approach, Madam Minister, seems to me appropriate in two respects. On the one hand travel within the EU and on the other hand travel outside the EU. So I have some questions for you. How will travel within the EU take place this summer? Has that been agreed between the Member States? Will the EU also organise a joint approach to travel to destinations outside Europe? Finally, what about the Digital Green Certificate? What criteria will be at the heart of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u25	Madam President, Mr Vandenput, access to Belgian territory and restrictions on borders are the powers of the Interior. The modality of testing and quarantine are the powers of the Länder. As Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs, I have the opportunity to go to Europe and talk about it. However, we are discussing this more generally. It is clear, of course, that the possibilities for travelling this summer depend first and foremost on the development of the epidemiological situation. That's like everything. Of course, that remains normal. Work on the Digital Green Certificate is progressing well for travel within Europe. The ball is now in the European Parliament. That has announced that it will work under an urgent procedure. It is indeed very important that this is kept at an accelerated rate, so that it will be operational by summer. However, I would like to make it clear that this document is not the same as a travel document, a passport. It's not that. The use of that certificate will remain a national competence. I have also said on several occasions, including at European level, that the certificate can never be a de facto requirement for vaccination. Travelling from and to Schengen area also remains a national competence. There is currently no real European approach to this. I took part in a General Affairs Council on 20 April, and I made a very clear appeal to remain very vigilant about the development of new variants in the world. We need very reactive and coordinated action at European level in this area. These variants can seriously undermine our strategies to combat the virus. This was not a question from you, but the variants, where they are located and where they are developing, will also continue to play a role. We therefore call for a harmonised and anticipating European approach to take appropriate and strong coordinated measures at borders to address this problem and many others.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u26	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer. I am pleased that Europe is pursuing a coherent policy in this area. Soon many Belgians will see their holiday money in their bank account. They want to travel with that, of course. A logical and simple way of travelling, organised at European level, is therefore needed. We must not overload the sector and passengers with too many rules and restrictions, and above all we must protect our own businesses. Today, Belgians who want to travel to a destination outside Europe take the train to Amsterdam or Paris and hence the plane. That's bad news. That's how we shoot in our own foot. Madam Minister, I would like to ask you to continue to work for the organisation of European-level travel, so that this summer travel can be simple and clear for our citizens and our businesses will no longer be disadvantaged in relation to companies abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u27	Madam President, Minister, almost every day we in the media are confronted with reports of aggression. It is not only about aggression against policemen, aid workers and health care workers, but also about aggression on public transport, i.e. against SNCB staff and sometimes even against rail passengers. It's about aggression in stations, on platforms or on trains. Not rarely do the foolish corona measures that this government comes up with give rise to incidents. Just think of the inexplicable rule that one has to sit at the window on the way to the coast. A train attendant was attacked at the Brussels-North station a few days ago because he pointed out to young people the duty of masking. Anyone who thinks that only the measures taken by this government are the cause of all this violence is mistaken, because even before the corona crisis we saw a remarkable increase in verbal and physical aggression against SNCB personnel. An established fact is that SNCB staff and, in particular, train escorts are almost powerless. In the event of incidents, they may call on the SNCB security service, Securail, or the railway police, but in practice they often have to wait a long time for assistance. Sometimes they even have to be patient until the train can stop some stations further. The result is, of course, that, firstly, the incidents have escalated and, secondly, the perpetrators, often difficult to reach young people, have long since left. Minister, what are you going to do to ensure the personal safety of both SNCB staff and rail passengers? How will you put an end to the growing lack of respect for our values and standards and the complete disregard of our rules of those difficult to reach?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u28	Madam President, Mr Toventors, last Saturday a train escort in Brussels-North was the victim of physical violence after asking a train traveller to wear his mouth mask. That is unacceptable. It is unacceptable that someone should be attacked for doing their job while protecting the safety and health of rail passengers. I immediately condemned this in the studio of the Seventh Day and expressed my solidarity with this train guide and all his colleagues. After all, they have a very important, often pleasant but sometimes difficult job. I checked with SNCB about the incident and its follow-up. The facts are well known. Fortunately, there are no serious physical consequences for the train attendant. He filed a complaint with the police and a pv was drafted. SNCB's legal service follows the file and provides legal assistance to the train supervisor. If the public prosecutor prosecutes the perpetrators, SNCB will take a bourgeois party to the court. Otherwise, SNCB itself will take the necessary legal steps to defend its interests and those of its train attendants. That is also right and I support this response. The train coach has a very nice job, with many responsibilities. These people have been making great additional efforts for months to ensure that our trains run safely. I would like to thank them again for that. Physical aggression can never happen. Feeling safe is a basic need, not only for a train guide but also for a traveler, in short for every person. In particular, I would like to thank SNCB and its security staff for all their efforts. Mobility is a freedom and as a competent minister, I will do everything in my power to ensure that each of us can enjoy it, on the track, on the road, on a boat or on a plane, on land, at sea and in the air, in all safety and with respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In fact, you could have spared yourself that, because this is the straw that we always belong to incidents, only now from the point of view of mobility. I'll give you a piece of advice. Instead of keeping you busy with the distribution of lucrative posts to green friendly politicians such as Wouter Van Besien, served by the voter, you should make the development of a strict security policy in public transport a priority. The Securail agents are doing their stinking best, but their corps is way too small. They have far too few powers and no appropriate means of defence. Ask your Home Secretary to do the same for the railroad police. For years we have seen that the staffing frameworks of the railway police are simply not being filled in. Finished with empty promises, done with the constant harsh condemnation, the expression of an outrage played out or the announcement of all kinds of measures that ultimately remain dead letter. For the Flemish interest, it is now really time for a tough approach with a lick-on-piece policy with a severe punishment for violent bombers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, where and when have we decided to become the biggest sponsor of Belgian football, and why is there not a single club running with the Belgian flag and with "Share Makes Power" on the shirt? We give EUR 200 million a year, but the question is what we get in return. Professional footballers in our country pay less social contributions than their secretary or the nurse who will sooner or later give them a vaccine. I do not mean a lower percentage, I mean actually less tax in absolute figures. We are not going to be able to explain that anymore. The clubs get tens of millions to expand their operation. This is happening in a world where the wage standard of 0.4% clearly does not apply. Over the last ten years, the average wages of footballers have doubled and government subsidies have tripled. That world is becoming more and more like a financial sector internationally than a sporting challenge. This week, the most powerful clubs in Europe tried to sell the soul of sport to the billions of banks and investors, not to the credit and glory of their supporters, but to tap into new markets in America and Asia. What is wrong with the system in our country is the following. The higher the pay as a sportsman, the more the athlete gets. That's the world upside down. We need to reverse that system. Those who barely make it out of their sport should get a push in the back. The great earners may earn as much as they are worth, but that wage should not be paid by taxpayers. What changes will you propose, Minister? When can we expect it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u31	Minister, the main sponsor of the Belgian football competition is the Belgian taxpayer. Last year, Belgian football clubs received 200 million euros in tax rebates to support them. As a major and responsible sponsor, we must, of course, ask what the return on that investment is. Are we gonna get what we need for our money? Can we say, for example, that our Belgian clubs play a part at European level? Can we say that our youth education is an international example? Asking the question is answering them. Meanwhile, all Belgian football clubs have become third-party commercial companies, often owned by foreign captains or industry. There are even those who want to go public with their clubs. Players' wages have gone through the roof, resulting in the reality that a nurse today sponsors the salary of a football millionaire, who himself, although earning 100 times more, contributes less to social security. The system does not work, is expensive and unjust. That is why, like other colleagues, I have already put forward proposals to deal with this. We went to talk to the clubs and we asked for figures. We agreed in the government agreement that we will reform the support system and ensure that everyone makes a fair contribution, including professional football. Those are all fine moves that you and your colleagues in the government can make. My question is therefore very simple, Minister. When will you come up with a design to reform and make the entire support system of professional sport and football more equitable?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u32	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said that EUR 200 million is the total tax advantage enjoyed by our first-class football clubs last season. This is, of course, a huge amount which is divided into two major benefits, on the one hand, the RSZ advantage on players' wages and, on the other hand, the advantage on the company tax that should not be paid. With regard to the RSZ advantage, it simply cannot be explained that a player earning millions of euros has to pay many times less social contributions than an ordinary employee. That advantage absolutely must be addressed. With regard to the non-transfer of the corporate tax, it is perfectly justified that young players and young talents are encouraged and that small clubs are encouraged. However, these amounts cannot be used to pay the millions of contracts of top players and top trainers or, worse still, to compensate the brokers. I want to end up with the real estate agents. The exuberant fees of the brokers, in particular 50 million euros in Belgium per year, double the fees in the Netherlands, come directly from the clubs. That is, as it were, a piece of that tax advantage, which is absorbed by it. Therefore, the CD&V has taken action and submitted two legislative proposals on the reform of RSZ contributions and corporate tax relief as well as on the reduction of real estate wages. This is also an important part of the coalition agreement. That is why my question to you is as follows. Can you give an update on the government's initiatives on RSZ and corporate tax? Are the brokers included in these initiatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u33	Madam President, Minister, I am on your left, which is not my custom. Colleagues, EUR 1.2 billion has flowed to football in the last ten years. I will not repeat myself by saying that Anderlecht's cleaning lady pays more RSZ contributions than a player who earns 2.7 million euros a year, such as Mr Trebel. What is the purpose of this regulation? She was created to advance our youth football. That situation has been going on for about 40 years now. Did it help? There are never so many foreign players on our fields today, i.e. 64 % of the total. We are also European champions in non-EU players, 30% of the total. All the money's gone to the top. We are in a crisis year, a corona year, but first-class players get 35 % increase, with an average of 430,000 euros. All our clubs in 1B, all of them, are in the hands of foreign gambling chinese or I don't know. Even Qataris using slave trade to build their own stadiums. In 1A, half of our clubs are in foreign hands. Barely five clubs had positive figures at the end of last year. There was a cumulative loss of 87 million euros. What happens to the EUR 87 million? Of these, 40 million to 50 million a year is paid out to the other crook gang, the real estate agents. Minister, we spend EUR 200 million a year on taxpayers' money for all of this. Five legislative proposals have already been prepared, since 19 November 2019. I have calculated that we have already lost EUR 288 million since then. Those bill proposals have a beautiful bill of mine. You're just talking about writing about it. You promised in your government statement to do something about that. Well, I'm waiting for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u34	We are all outraged by the figures in the newspaper about rising wages, but also by the increasing tax and parafiscal benefits. The amount of EUR 200 million has already fallen, but there is also the EUR 131 million for the six largest clubs. I believe that these are all alarm bells that make it clear that we need to look at the current system, the current measure. Because of the higher wages, of course, the tax and parafiscal advantage also blows into the air, and it also misses a little the goal that we originally had with this measure. That objective has already been clearly stated here. That goal was to support our youth, invest in our youth and thus push all sports in our country, not just football. That intention was clear and it also had the best intentions. It was intended that sports clubs should not pass on part of their corporate tax to the State Treasury, but that they should invest in their own youth training in return. Football clubs benefit most from this, of course, because they pay the highest wages, but that creates a matthew effect. The rules we have laid down to invest in youth training also relate to the wages of the minus 23 year olds. This is of course how one gets a vicious circle. If you pay more wages, you will have to pay more corporate tax, but you will get more tax benefit, and then you will have to invest in the youth players. However, these youth players receive higher wages and so the vicious circle is a fact. We must break this vicious circle and we must therefore ask ourselves whether this measure is still proportionate to the objectives that we originally set out with this system, as Mr Dedecker said, especially when we see that the number of own players is less than half and that more than half are foreign players. It is not our job to support such high wages fiscally and parafiscally. We have written that down in the government agreement, and I quote from it: 'The government will reform the current tax and parafiscal benefits of professional sportsmen and sports clubs with a view to greater fairness, ensuring that everyone makes a fair contribution, depending on the capacity of sport.' There is an effective need for an in-depth reform here and not just for some adjustments in the margins or some re-shaping. That is also in my policy paper and in the various proposals that are already on the table today. I'm taking those proposals and we're analysing them. Together with my colleague from Social Affairs, Vandenbroucke, we will ensure that there is a proposal on the table which will also include the proposal on the broker's fee. We want to come up with that as soon as possible. The excesses in this system have to come out. We must take responsibility, because this system threatens to derail because the professional football clubs have far more advantages than the amateur clubs, but we must also ensure that there is no great inequality between professional football clubs and other sports clubs. We must fight this inequality. Above all, we must continue to support the objective of the measure that exists today. We must support every Belgian sports talent, in any sport, football or any other sport. With the current system, we are doing far too little. We are not helping them with that. The vicious circle that exists today in the system must be broken. I will come up with proposals with my colleague from Social Affairs. I hope to get support for this in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. This is not only a tax problem, it is also a problem of social security. The clubs hardly contribute anything and yet some of them made use of temporary unemployment last year. That's just not right. If the government wants to continue to support athletes, then we must ensure that the support reaches those who need it, those athletes who crook themselves daily for a hunger wage and not the millionaires. There are two worlds in this country, apparently each with their own rules. The world of tax extortionists needs to be kicked, including in football. Mr. Secretary, I expect more from you than a cosmetic procedure. You promised me that, too. I expect a very substantial reform. I will work on this in Parliament with my colleague Vandenbroucke. I am counting on you to continue working on this in the government with your colleague Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u36	You can count on the Vandenbrouckes, Mr Vanbesien. Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You have confirmed that a system designed to support all sports and all professional athletes has become extremely expensive, that it is ineffective and unjust by professional football with its huge wages and low contributions. I am very pleased that you are announcing an in-depth reform, together with your colleague Frank Vandenbroucke. For me, this means a reform that focuses on solidarity. Solidarity means doing your part and getting your share. For us, football has more than got its share. It's time for football to do its part. This also means that those who earn more must contribute more.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u37	Minister, thank you for the very clear answer and the statement that you want to go for a thorough reform. For CD&V, this in-depth reform is an essential part of fair taxation. First of all, we need to tackle social contributions and corporate tax. In awarding these advantages, one can have a perfect eye for support for young talents, small clubs and the difficulties caused by corona. However, the great earners must and will pay correct contributions. Secondly, I would like to highlight the problem of exuberant broker fees. Those, too, need to be addressed. After all, it is really not normal for some real estate agents to literally suck up clubs and thus also suck up some of the tax advantages. That too needs to be addressed. CD&V will definitely be a partner to achieve that. Not the financial, but the sporting interests will prevail in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer, but I will keep an eye on this. There are currently 5 legislative proposals from different parties. I've spent a lot of years in the world of sports myself, and I've seen that case grow wrong. This case has always grown wrong on the basis of the involvement of politicians in certain clubs. Mistakes have never been abolished by the dynamics between politics and those companies, because politicians have always been spoiled in this area. At present, all parties have submitted a proposal, except the MR. I know, however, that your chairman is also chairman of Francs Borains, and I will certainly be on my guard. Minister, we have given you the confidence, but with these 5 legislative proposals Parliament has the political power to work on this itself if you do nothing. However, when I hear your enthusiasm, I count on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u39	Mr Minister, I have addressed a specific question to you rather than to the Prime Minister who was able, at the beginning of the sitting, to speak through a question from our colleague De Smet about the total disarray in the cultural and event sector. It is useless to tell you that the Prime Minister's response basically announcing that nothing new had to be expected tomorrow at the Concertation Committee, while all the cultural and event actors were in the starting blocks to finally have a little breath, was received as a real cold shower by the sector. I think you're going to measure, probably in the coming days, the extent of their despair and anger. You are the minister of the independents, the minister of all the independents, including those in the event sector, and also those in the cultural sector, because culture is not just subsidized culture. They expect you to be pugnacious tomorrow, too, at the concertation committee, so that they can change this rigorist line and restore breathing. Beyond that, your predecessor, Mr. Ducarme, had, when he was exercising your duties, expressed the commitment that the Federation of Event Trades, with which the Still Alive and Brussels by Night movement are associated, could be involved in all discussions on future protocols. You also committed yourself to it at a meeting where you were present. Since then, nothing! They're waiting. They're still on the station wharf and the train has been leaving it for a long time. Only the Confederation of Events, Event Confederation, is your interlocutor even though it is not representative of the diversity of situations experienced. I would have liked to have an explanation in that regard. Is it finally possible that the commitment made by your predecessor and yourself will now be met?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of this crisis, I have met with a great many representatives from all sectors, including the event sector from the largest to the smallest federation. My door has always been wide open to them. Technicians, producers, actors, dancers, caterers, organizers, DJ, the event sector has a multitude of trades Like you, Mr. Prévot, I feel the pain of the event, of the Horeca, of the culture, of the contact trades and more generally of all the trades that have been impacted by the closure of their business. Given its diversity, the representation of the event sector is not unique. This is why the government receives and listens to a number of organizations, including the Fédération des métiers de l'eventiel. I also – as you recalled – met, at the very beginning of my term of office, this federation that is in contact with my cabinet. We also meet other organizations, such as the Federation of Independent Culture, which brings together non-subsidized actors in culture, or the Confederation of Events. You referred to it earlier. No one has been set aside and certainly not independent cultural actors. These various federations have been directed to the Corona police station in order to communicate their proposals for the resumption of activities. Contacts have been made with a view to the Codeco of tomorrow, where we will discuss the reopening of the Horeca and the perspectives for culture and events. Commissioner Corona will propose us a framework for reopening, based, among other things, on the proposals that have been made by these sectors. In this regard, I have already expressed my view on several occasions: we must learn to manage risks and allow for a gradual, secure but as fast as possible resumption of activities. The mental health of the population and the economic survival of many independents and businesses are at stake.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u41	Minister, thank you, although you did not answer my question as to whether you were going to reach out to these operators to negotiate future health protocols, not just to listen to them. I didn't question the fact that you were meeting them. I dare indeed hope that your door is open to the great diversity of these different movements or federations. For having been able to browse, for the benefit of one or the other shipment, the exchanges with your firm, I am aware that they have this ability to be listened to, failing to be always heard. But the question is about negotiating the future protocol. That is what they aspire to. They want to be associated with this protocol. At the moment, however, it is only done with one interlocutor, and I regret that. On the other hand, you have announced very good news. You have just confirmed that tomorrow, beyond the measures relating to Horeca, there will also be a debate on the perspectives of culture and the possible ways of deconfining it, in contrast to what the Prime Minister has announced to us a few minutes ago saying that nothing should be expected in this regard. Obviously, you are not meeting with the same agenda at the Consultation Committee. This again promises great joys but I want to believe in your ability to put this point on the agenda and that culture and events can quickly untie.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u42	Madam Secretary, how harsh can one be? This raises the question of the IGO control procedure introduced by the previous government. I can't put it any other way. Vulnerable seniors are afraid of the doorbell, do not dare to go to the market anymore, do not dare to go on a trip with the seniors' association and are locked in their homes, afraid of a control. In these corona times we all experience how oppressive the feeling of being locked up can be for those who can't or dare to leave their quarters anymore. However, we have condemned these people. Who is this about, anyway? In most cases, it concerns women who have taken care of the children, who have helped in the cause of their husbands, who may have had some bad luck along the way, especially those who have worked very hard throughout their lives. Now they're being treated like criminals, because they're being sentenced to a mental anklet that keeps them locked up in their quarters. Of course, the previous government used an excuse. That way money would flow abroad. There is nothing less true, however. The thousands of checks carried out at the doors show that there is a problem in less than 1% of cases. Madam Secretary, why do we retain such controls? No one can tell me. I think there are more effective ways to find out if people are staying abroad. We are talking about a weak group of people who are victims and who we really condemn to a new lockdown. Madam Secretary, don't ever let that procedure go back. Choose the human measure for effective policy. That can go hand in hand, don't miss that chance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u43	Madam Chair, Minister, a house arrest is how GRAPA recipients qualify their situation. One house arrest for 110,000 people in Belgium. For what fault? The one with a very small pension. This very small pension requires a supplementary allowance. An anguish for these elderly people as soon as they leave their homes. Today we are all aware of what confinement means. We have all, at some point, been confined, assigned. It's a difficult, painful and anxious situation. The current crisis shows how difficult it is to feel deprived of this fundamental freedom: that of being able to move freely here, but also outside our borders. What is the result of these controls? A result of 80% checks for 0.95% justified sanctions. We know, and you agree, it doesn't make sense. Today, the controls are suspended, which gives us a moment to try to rework before the classic resumption of these controls. A collective of 41 associations took the time to propose leads and beacons to review the scope of the controls, review privacy and establish mediation before any sanction. These leads are constructive and relevant. So, Madam Minister, where are we now? Have you heard of these proposals and what do you intend to do with them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u44	Madam President, Madam Minister, more than a year ago, against the backdrop of a health crisis, the control of the residence of GRAPA beneficiaries by factors was suspended, or rather put under a bell. This decision taken by the previous government, in its current affairs, fell to the fore so much criticism of the mechanism on all sides and raised many questions, both on its basis and on its modalities. Of course, this matter has been the subject of intense discussions in our Assembly under the previous parliamentary term, both in plenary and in committee. Hearings were held, which revealed all the flaws of this mechanism. These flaws were the intrusion into the privacy of our seniors, and the disproportionate nature of the mechanism in relation to the expected result and the result actually achieved. The formula "You use a bazooka to kill flies" showed this really disproportionate character. The issue of protecting the privacy of our seniors was raised, such as the anxiety of seniors, that of not hearing the factor or losing some of that low income, not to mention the role of factors. You have followed public companies, Madam Minister, in a previous life. The social role of the factors is expected to be different from their participation in a system of control and sanctions. All this being said, the Socialist Group, like others, opposed this mechanism, which was considered inappropriate, disproportionate, unjust and ineffective. Today, some 40 associations are also asking you to reform the system. Minister, my questions are the same as those of previous speakers. In accordance with the Government Agreement, what assessment do you make of this involvement in this control system? The central question for the future is above all: what mechanism do you intend to implement? How do you intend to reform this control system to put in place a control that is humane, dignified and respectful of the rights and freedoms of our elders? Thank you for working in this direction, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u45	Today, 110,000 Belgians with a much too low pension receive an additional allowance, a guarantee of income for the elderly. To get that bonus, they have to stay home. As if that's not bad enough, we'll send the postmen to check it out. Just today, 40 organizations in the newspaper are asking for these completely exaggerated IGO controls to be lifted. The only good thing about corona is that the measure was temporarily suspended. Now is the time to throw it in the trash. After all, no one has missed the controls. The elderly themselves haven't missed them. They are very anxious and do not dare to leave the door, because they have eighty seconds to get to the door. Even many of us wouldn't be able to do that. They are also obliged to report any trip abroad. For example, Jeannine lives on the border with the Netherlands, in Maasmechelen. If she wants to go to Maastricht, a few kilometres further, to get fresh fish, she must call the pension service. What are we doing? Those aren't the big frauds. The postmen also make it clear that they do not miss the controls either. They used to have to bring the pensions, and now they have to make sure they're taken away. Politicians should only bring in a sick note every four years if they are ill. There's no control over that. They take their 6,000 euros every month. The seniors involved, who are already in a very difficult situation, will have another check on their roof. Is it true that there will be a small adjustment? What exactly does that mean? Do you think it's normal to put those pensioners in permanent lockdown?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u46	Colleagues, let me begin by saying that I am listening. A politician should listen to what affects people and comments on how things can be different and better. That is the way I have always done, do and will continue to do politics. Today, a valuable and important call from various organisations in Le Soir and De Standaard appeared. I am therefore not surprised by the appeal of this collective. I share the observations that have been made. Like him, I want to correct the mechanism that weighs heavily on the shoulders of GRAPA beneficiaries. The system of IGO controls was set up by my predecessor, but it is not humane and disproportionate. The time is therefore right to look forward together not to the past, but to the future. Trust me, I didn't wait to be questioned about the mechanism to understand that it was necessary to see him again. This issue affects the elderly and economically vulnerable, most of whom are women who have not been able to build up pension rights, also because of a series of hardenings in access to pension rights by the previous government. The residency check will be reviewed to make it proportional. As you said, that is what is announced in the government agreement and that is what I will do in consultation with the social partners and civil society that I have met, that I have met and that I still have an appointment with next week. But it's probably useful to remember who we're talking about. We are talking about people who benefit from GRAPA, i.e. 1,180 euros per month for a single person and 789 euros per month for a cohabitant. Many people also receive a supplement of GRAPA, i.e. a very small sum. Blind checks, for which an annual quota of 80 % of checks is requested, therefore make no sense and are totally disproportionate. This causes permanent stress for beneficiaries, which is simply absurd and unacceptable. I have therefore obviously extended the suspension of these controls until the end of June. It is essential not to add injustice to injustice. The situation is already quite complicated for everyone, especially for the most vulnerable, at this time. I have been working on the reform of the control mechanism since the beginning of the legislature with the social partners and these discussions have already borne fruit. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the unanimous opinion of the social partners on the short-term solutions to correct the mechanism in force. It has already been agreed that checks should be abolished for persons over 80 years of age and for persons in nursing homes. We will also clarify the deadlines and how to calculate the famous 29 days per year of stay abroad. In addition, departure and arrival days and stays of less than 48 hours are excluded, for example, the cross-border person who is shopping across the border. This will therefore not be taken into account within the imposed limit. Finally, the quota of 80 % of checks shall be abolished. Here are the first steps that will be taken. In a second stage, work continues with the social partners, actors on the ground, and in particular mutualities, in order to have another type of control in the medium term. I am attentive to the solutions and avenues proposed by civil society, i.e. 40 associations. The six points raised in the newspapers this morning are also on the table for discussions by the social partners. I want to be clear: for me, the beneficiaries of GRAPA must be able to live their lives calmly, leave for a few days in Belgium or abroad, without always having a sword of Damocles above their heads. In the long run, I want to limit the number of people under control to the maximum. We must be able to work on the basis of the data available through the various bodies. Consultation is essential in this respect: working together to find solutions in mutual trust, an important aspect for which too little attention has been paid in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u47	Madam Minister, I am naturally pleased that you want to move forward with us, that you have started the consultation, that you have put forward a number of ideas for improvement and listen to the proposals of civil society organisations to make controls more humane, so that vulnerable senior citizens are not constantly stressed. I look forward to the new proposals. We already have a very simple principle: no punishment without crime. After all, it is not about people embezzling billions into tax havens. You yourself mentioned the amounts. They're vulnerable people. So let us treat them as such and give them a dignified old age.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u48	Minister, this is good news in perspective! For a year, we have repeatedly called in this Parliament. I have not counted the number of times I have spoken to my colleague Vanden Burre to ask how we can find solutions. So that's great news! You mention a number of avenues that go towards more proportionality and humanity. I really think that's what we need to go to for all those people who benefit from GRAPA, and especially for these women. Ending this violence against the most vulnerable is very important. The commission is always open to you to work on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u49	Minister, for my part, I would also like to thank you for your response which gives hope, which gives another direction and another philosophy to this control mechanism. You confirm your willingness to review, reform the current mechanism, simplify it as well by not stigmatizing or traumatizing people because aging means wanting to sit down, rest and enjoy a little of life. However, the current mechanism does not go in that direction. We have full confidence in the work you are going to do. As my colleague has said, at committee level, we are obviously at your disposal to work with you in this direction. The Socialist Group fully supports your initiative. I want to say "forward!" or if you want "vooruit!"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u50	Madam Minister, one thing is right: the controls remain suspended. However, I do not understand why you do not simply delete them, as the measure in question, which you have already evaluated, appears to be inadequate. In 1% of all cases there is abuse, and then you take measures. I am not saying that they are not good, because it is small concessions not to control the 80-plussers in retirement homes, but you are actually doing the same thing as your liberal predecessor did, albeit in a slightly milder form. The only solution to this is a completely different approach, namely automatic control or people in the country are, for example, through health care data. It's 2021, not 1951, so it's perfect these days. Then you only need to filter out targeted some cases. Let's be clear: for us, the end of the coronal lockdown is almost in sight, but for those seniors it is still not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u51	Madam President, Minister, this week we were able to hear the intention of the Vivaldi team to green the commercial vehicles, which we are not opposed to in principle, for the sake of clarity. I understand you, you are under pressure from Europe and the enormous climate ambitions. It is not so obvious, but it must all remain feasible and affordable. I hope we can agree on that, Madam Secretary. There's a word for that, ecorealism. Since the greening of commercial vehicles is nothing more than a plan, because I understand that it is not yet a definite policy, now is the time to exchange views on that idea. I hope that what will be before us is not a copy-paste of the bill that was discussed in the Committee on Climate Change about a year ago. It was a text that was written very tailored to the wealthy electoral audience of Open Vld and of Ecolo-Groen, the people who will be able to use subsidies to install loading posts on their property. You are well aware that this is not about the majority of the population. It was also a very arbitrary text. We weren't supposed to talk about hybrids. It had to be full electric, here and now. Which brings me to the timing of that time. It was really tight. Large, expensive brands will be able to make the switch, but the question is whether there will be enough modest, affordable models on the market by 2026. You can tell me all kinds of things about that file. We can ask a hundred questions. I shall confine myself to the next three. Firstly, how will you ensure that the change does not entail social inequality? Secondly, we all know that at the end of their contract, most of the lease cars go to a second-hand market abroad. How do you guarantee that electric lease cars will stay here? Thirdly, how do you reconcile this exercise with your ambition to get out of nuclear power?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u52	Madam President, let me begin by saying that I am pleased that, after intense negotiations at European level, an agreement has finally been reached on the European climate law. Now the green transition is legally anchored. Europe will be climate neutral by 2050 and it will reduce emissions by more than 55% by 2030. Ecorealism is the increase in ambition that science demands, and that is what the climate law does. It is necessary to avoid the loss of many vulnerable ecosystems and living organisms. The impact analyses carried out by the European Commission show that these ambitious objectives are feasible and affordable and can also have a positive impact on our competitiveness, our economic growth and jobs, if we tackle the transition properly and pursue coherent and well-thought-out policies. A just transition must be central, in which no one is left behind and everyone must be given the opportunity to contribute fully to the transition. We in Belgium have the agreement to support the European climate law. No entity is of the opinion that we should reject that law. The proposal on commercial vehicles is now on the table and is being negotiated within the government. We will ensure that all commercial vehicles are emission-free by 2026. We thank Minister Van Peteghem for his comprehensive approach, with which he also wants to green vans, trucks and cargo infrastructure. As I said in committee, you know that we are working on a global tax reform. This gives us a better chance of making fiscal reform feasible. The guarantee of an affordable fiscal reform lies in working towards a global fiscal reform. The reform of our taxation will therefore be global. I've already given so many answers to that question. I don't remember all the answers I've given. I'm not sure you'll be happy with my answer either. However, I would ask you to wait until we have done the overall work in order to ensure that the reform is fair.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u53	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. It became clear that you did not know how to respond, because your answer was as global as it was in the committee meeting. The answer is always the same. I did not receive an answer to my three specific questions. I am not convinced that there will be social inequality when I hear you like that. You'll have to rehearse your own answer later. On my question whether lease cars will no longer end up abroad because they are electric cars from tomorrow, I have not received an answer either. It is therefore to be feared that citizens and businesses will soon have to pay for the greening of a fleet of cars elsewhere in Europe. Thirdly, as a result of rapid electrification, the gas plants will have to run full-scale, whereas you have always said that this would only be sporadic. You are not consistent in that, nor are the government, because the government is organizing a CO2 pocket operation, from the exhaust pipe of the car to the chimney of your gas plant. That's not okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u54	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we do not want La Boum 2. I'll make a call to all of you. Everyone, all 150, needs to ask the young people and their parents that little patience and their cooperation on the roadmap today through their own social media channels for a controlled restart of our public life. We owe it to our caregivers. We don't want Indian states. Who can help us in this? You are already in contact with the professional event sector, where all events, the festivals, the culture sector, the Pro League and so many others act together. The sector has a larger employment than the rightly cherished catering industry. Can they help you with the careful rebooting of our living together? Can the matrix of their CERM, their COVID Event Risk Model, which they developed together with Mr Facon, Mrs Vlieghe and the Crisis Centre for Reopening, be a useful tool? Of course, the governors and mayors have always been involved as key partners. This CERM was already successfully applied and tested in September and October of last year. How are you looking at the upcoming European Championship? Unfortunately, our Devils are playing too well. It is just in that context that today you can offer hope and perspective to our entire population and also to halt the spontaneous celebrations in the Ter Kamenbos and on the beach of Knokke. What measures will you take in the coming days?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u55	Minister, in the Horeca sector, restorers are considering symbolic action on May 1 by opening the terraces. To do this, they rely on the virologists' assertions that the opening of the terraces has a minimal impact on health. They want to use this freedom to express their suffering and disagreement with your health policy and the measures that result from it. We are talking about a sector that was hit hard and suffered during this crisis. This sector has respected the rules since the first day and has been closed for 282 days, without any applause. All the measures that have been put in place are far from meeting its needs. What was the government's response? We pulled out the big artillery! All the ministers have done it! Ministers of Health, Justice, Home Affairs, Attorneys General. We'll punish! Zero tolerance! Fines, administrative closures! Even Minister Clarinval, the so-called Liberal and independent minister, threatened to remove the double right bridge. If the government put so much energy into managing the health crisis, we wouldn't be in this situation. The Horeca sector reached out to you and the government slapped her! Minister, since the government does not want to listen to them, I will bring their demands to this Parliament. They ask you to advance the date of opening of the terraces to May 1 because, as virologists say, terraces do not represent a health risk. Minister, are you going to go back to these disproportionate measures, to this repression, to a symbolic action?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is spring and we are looking forward to summer, but Corona is still causing very great and constant disappointments in our society. Everyone wants to respond enthusiastically and positively to the demand of so many young people who are longing for their freedom, of grandparents who crave to embrace their grandchildren, of catering operators who want to welcome guests, of culture-goers who look forward to a first performance and even of fitness coaches who want to move everyone. The Federal Government and I would also like to be able to give that answer, but at the same time no one wants to tell people who are in serious need of care that there is no room in the hospital for proper care, if no one in their immediate family and friends wants to be confronted with dangerous infections and no one is going to have to explain to the caregivers, who have been making phenomenal efforts for more than 13 months now, that we have relaxed too quickly. A sad event like earlier this week in Anderlecht also shows that the pressure remains high and that the aid workers need to look for beds for intensive care. Fortunately, proper care has been found for all victims. That's why we can't rush into this. That is why last Wednesday's Consultation Committee drew up a roadmap. It's a step-by-step plan and not a springboard. The objective is clear: to give more breathing space. Following the Consultation Committee, we have also listened very carefully. We have consulted intensively with many sectors of culture, sport and events in order to further roll out the open plan we have drawn up. In addition, incredible creativity has been shown by those sectors to be able to re-create our lives and all our activities in a way that does not compromise the care system. In my view, the establishment of that open plan can already provide a perspective on the timing of making it possible again to secure what we have all missed. The further implementation of that open plan is also exactly the agenda of tomorrow's Consultation Committee. Mr Briers, it is clear that all the expertise available in these sectors should be used for events, sport and culture to roll out that open plan. They've been working very hard on that CERM over the last few days, on those different tools that we can use to assess whether an event can be organised safely. In addition, we have listened very carefully to the local authorities, governors and mayors, and the police. They are also a crucial partner in the roll-out of that open plan. After all, we know that they will have to be at the helm when we want to organise events such as the European Championships or football and cycling races again. I would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation for their work. Together with the Crisis Centre, they have made incredible efforts from the start of the pandemic, such as organising safe markets, testing, screening, prevention, sensitisation and recently the development of vaccination centres. I am convinced that many people understand why we still have to deliver these unpleasant messages. That is why they can continue to focus on the measures we have agreed on. The fact that we have seen a huge increase in vaccinations in recent weeks is, of course, very encouraging. If we can keep up this pace, a nice summer is within easy reach. Mr Boukili, you have heard things that have not happened. No one said zero tolerance with regard to the Horeca. It is clear that if the conditions are met, we will be able to reopen the terraces on 8 May. The rules are clear and necessary. On 15 April, the College of Attorneys General defined the prosecution policy in our country and violations of the Ministerial Order will be prosecuted. It is also a sign of respect for all who respect the rules. If we have agreed on the measures, everyone must take responsibility and respect them. Ladies and gentlemen, we do indeed have a shared and joint task and responsibility not to compromise our summer and to faithfully implement the decisions of the Conciliation Committee. That is why I have also called on the mayors, who are on the front line, to identify problems with regard to the measures taken on their territory in good time. Anyone who calls for the measures to be left behind will pass on the bill to society as a whole. Finally, I would like to say that, of course, this storm, this pandemic, is exhausting us all. However, we will also see that the storm itself will be exhausted and that it will be okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u57	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clarification. I also thank you for your respect, along with the federal government, for the care sector. We must also think of them first and foremost today. Of course, I am also grateful for the confidence you have in the event, festival and culture sectors. I hope that this will also be borne by our other governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u58	Madam Chair, Minister, when the Attorneys General say that they will not let anything go and that they will impose fines on all those who do not comply with the measures, it is called zero tolerance. You present things as if your action were neutral. But it is your policy that is called into question. The restaurateurs and the population respect the rules. You're the one who's not fulfilling your commitments. It is you who do not respect the people by pursuing a policy that has, today, shown its ineffectiveness. I would have liked to see the government put so much energy into penalizing large companies that do not respect the rules or workers, as was the case with AB InBev. But it must be noted that, in order to tap on the little ones, all members of the government agree. Minister, if a health policy is to be effective, people must be supported. But you lost it because you do not manage this health crisis. At some point, we must be able to make our own self-criticism, go back to our policy and put in place a real social policy that does not shut down society's taps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u59	This concludes the time for oral questions. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u60	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 April 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 April 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u61	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. MM. Ahmed Laaouej and Gilles Vanden Burre, rapporteurs, refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u62	Colleagues, the Swedish Government also decided in 2018 in the courageous decision to order the F-35 to provide funds of EUR 227 million for the implementation of essential security interests, i.e. compensation, economic return or whatever it may be called. Today, two and a half years later, this first budget adjustment, amounting to EUR 135 million, is the first action for aircraft component manufacturers, such as ASCO, Sonaca and SABCA, for the production of height stirrers for the F-35 in sub-contracting of the British. The contract should amount to some EUR 400 million in the period 2025-2040. However, we are still a long way from the EUR 3.7 billion that was thought to be able to get Kris Peeters at the time, but it is better than nothing for a country which did not enter the development phase of the aircraft in good time. It speaks volumes that the added value that companies like Lockheed see in our industry is also important. Why do we do that? I give you three reasons for approving the draft. There may be more, but I'll give you three. Firstly, we are doing it to strengthen our own defence industry, both now and, above all, in the future. If we do not make this investment, it could be an irreparable loss for industry. Secondly, the investment involves a great deal of direct and indirect employment: 200 FTEs directly, on which we have recently received additional detailed information, and allegedly 600 FTEs indirectly. That's not unimportant. Thirdly, in secondary order, there will be an annual benefit of 2% to 3% for the FPIM as well as a preferential dividend for the government. Those are important reasons. We also see that other companies, such as Solvay and Feronyl, have concluded multi-annual contracts under the F-35 programme and, in view of the experience gained by our companies in maintaining the F-16s for other NATO countries, we should not rule out the possibility that the F-35 programme will in future produce even more for our economy, in the hope that we will move towards EUR 3.7 billion earlier, as outlined at the time. Mrs De Bleeker, in the committee you have undertaken to inform you about the division of tasks between the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Economic Affairs, specifically regarding the essential security interests and the economic return. It would be interesting to give further information on exactly how that works. Our group is in any case asking for more information on who is doing what in the future in the Committee on Army Procurement. What does the FPS Economy do? What does the DOD do? What proactive role do our ministers and the relevant services play to ensure that, in addition to these concrete matters, our economy can benefit even more from these important purchases? What contracts are still being concluded? Which ones are already closed? Colleagues, I would like to thank all the Vivaldists for agreeing to the ambitious F-35 programme through this budget change. We have heard other things in the past. We are in favour of this budgetary adjustment, although it is rather late and the promises made for the time being are not yet complete. Hopefully, our devices, which will soon be there, can also be equipped with a height rudder of our own soil. I would also like to make a plea that goes a little further than just this specific budget adjustment. I'd like to make another plea to think about the future. Some of my colleagues think that's too early. Our F-35 isn't flying yet and the N-VA wants to start another debate about the device after the F-35. Colleagues, delay just makes us end up in this alley again. At the time, we assembled the F-16 entirely on our own soil, an investment that was more than profitable at the time and made sure that our industry could be preserved. At the F-35 we missed that boat in the 90s and 2000. We don't want to repeat that. We want this Parliament and this government to think about participating in the FCAS programme, drawn by the French, the Germans and the Spanish or the Tempest programme, drawn by the Sweden, the Italians and the UK. We do not care very much what is chosen, but we do have to start with that thinking process. We need to think about how to ensure that we do not miss future evolution. Only in this way can our companies and our own knowledge centres reap the benefits of these big programmes and we no longer have to be jealous of the Dutch. I will certainly take the necessary parliamentary initiatives. I am counting on the support of the entire Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this first adjustment of the general expenditure budget is actually the second adjustment. After all, the second adjustment was approved for the Easter holiday while the first one is now being discussed. This is an adjustment of budgets for defence, finance and economics within the framework of the F-35, a politically charged dossier. There was also an ongoing discussion about the pay-back and employment effects in this file. We note that the Vooruit party, which has always opposed the purchase of the F-35, will approve this bill in order to preserve peace within the government. I remember, however, that their group leaders had a strong political profile in this dossier at the time. I am not a defence specialist myself, and I will not therefore interfere in the political discussions that belong in the Committee on Defence. However, I will comment on the financial aspects. For the rest, I refer to my colleagues Annick Ponthier and Steven Creyelman who are members of the committee mentioned. In concrete terms, this is about the development and qualification of the height stirs of the F-35 by 3 Belgian companies already mentioned here. In the context of this project, a kind of joint venture with the FPIM would also be established. I have put some questions to the Secretary of State in committee about this, for example about the ownership of the companies involved. The answer was that it was EUR 57 million. The expected return of this investment was an interest rate of 2 to 3 % for the FPIM and a preferential dividend. The expected impact on employment was 200 full-time equivalents directly and around 600 full-time equivalents indirectly. Of course, we also asked about the division between the regions. This afternoon, at 12.50 p.m., we received a reply from the Minister. In this we see that the 200 FTEs in direct employment are distributed according to a perfect waffle iron policy: 100 jobs for Flanders and 100 jobs for Wallonia. That waffle iron policy is to the detriment of Flanders and the Flemings. The Flemings account for 60% of the population, pay more than 70% of the taxes in this country and guarantee more than 80% of the exports, but receive only 50% of the employment in this concrete bill. It is therefore logical for my party to ask questions. A final point is our surprise at the way everything is done, again, in committee and in plenary. We have not received any report on this budgetary adjustment from the Court of Auditors. We are equally surprised that the two competent committees were not involved in this draft law. The Economics Committee is responsible for the aspects of the economic return and the Defence Committee is responsible for placing the order. We regret that the debate on this concrete draft law was not fully conducted in those committees. Madam Secretary of State, allow me to ask you another question in this context. Everything here was rushed by the seven parties by Parliament. You know that the budgetary adjustment must be submitted to Parliament by 30 April at the latest. Will you respect that deadline? Can we, as committee members, expect to receive all the documents relating to this first budgetary adjustment by 30 April?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u64	Colleagues, it is a draft budget adjustment that is before us today. We had already voted one before spring leave. This project does not constitute the bulk of budgetary control. Here, it specifically concerns the F-35 since this adjustment relates to the transfer of a €135 million appropriation from the Defence to the SPF Economy and the SPF Finances for the construction in Belgium of the "governances", one of the F-35 coins. Of these 135 million, 105 million will go as grants to four companies: Asco, Sabca, Sonaca and BeLightning - a joint venture made up of the other three companies. There is also the fact of subscribing to shares of the company BeLightning for 15 million and finally of making a subordinated loan to the same company still for 15 million euros. This budget adjustment project raises a lot of questions and criticisms on our part. The very first criticism is fundamental, that is the one formulated in relation to the general contract for the purchase of the F-35s. Indeed, you probably know that the PTB has, since the beginning, been opposed to this military investment which is not part of a defence policy at all but rather part of an attack policy, it should be said, in an imperialist logic of intervention throughout the world under NATO domination. If we were really in a defence policy, we could continue for several years with our F-16s saving on flying hours. There would be a way to continue for years and not to make this investment that is made at the expense of social spending. However, today, with the Corona crisis, social spending is compulsory. In addition, these F-35s are weapons to kill and dominate, to lead a war policy. The PTB is against this militaristic and belligerent logic. Basically, we're against buying the F-35s. A second review is added to the mother file. These are all the problems that this device faces today. We may have talked about the contract of the century about the F-35, but I think it's more of the scam of the century. These aircraft are clearly far less efficient than announced. Do you know how many breaches have been recorded on this device, Madam Secretary of State? You manage the budgetary aspect, but the military aspect is also linked to it. There were 871 deficiencies on this device. After 20 years, the F-35 is not yet in the production phase at full capacity. A member of the U.S. Congress called him a "rat hole." The programme has already cost more than 400 billion euros in the United States. Madam Secretary of State, you are not responsible for the military aspect, but when you hear figures such as 400 billion dollars spent in the United States, this budgetary aspect should challenge you. There are indeed budgetary risks. According to the most recent data from the Netherlands, which already have several F-35s, the cost per hour of flight is much higher than reported. If we apply this calculation to Belgium, we must know that, in addition to the purchase budget, there is also the maintenance budget which, for the 30 years of the supposed life of the F-35, amounts to a total of 15 billion. If we apply the supplement found in the Netherlands to these 15 billion costs in Belgium, it will not be 15 billion, but 19 billion. That's an extra $4 billion, Madam Secretary of State, and it's also a budget. That's not the military aspect. So I advise you to look at these possible slippages. This is my third review. We're paying subsidies, but what are they going to do? We don't know. Madam Secretary of State, in committee, you did not provide a very clear answer about their assignment. You said that the three companies were planning an additional investment of 57 million in addition to 105 million state subsidies, but we still don't know exactly what we're going to do with that money. You said there was an urgent need because the agreement with Lockheed-Martin, the American multinational that built the F-35, will only come into force after an initial deposit is made. An additional payment of about 15 million is required at the end of June 2021. But what is the amount of this initial deposit? What is it for? Will the grants be used to pay Lockheed-Martin for a transfer of know-how? If so, what is the amount of this payment for Lockheed-Martin's know-how? We still do not have a precise answer to these questions. I come to my fourth review. The taxpayer is at risk of paying twice for the same product. If we read between the lines – although it is not very clear – it would be a matter of paying the multinational Lockheed Martin for a transfer of know-how for the F-35 "governments". In short, the state will pay twice Lockheed Martin, since it paid first for the purchase of the F-35 and now it will have to pay another payment for a transfer of know-how. We are truly witnessing the nationalization of costs and the privatization of profits. However, should we be surprised that so many suspicious transfers are headed to Lockheed Martin, if we remember that the former Deputy Chief of Staff of former Defence Minister Steven Vandeput – who had concluded the transaction – had gone to join the same company? Knowing that such rotating door phenomena exist, we will not be surprised by double payments in favour of the company. A fifth criticism that we can make is the question of the jobs that will be created. Bernard Delvaux, patron of the Sonaca, admits himself that this contract is not of a gigantic magnitude, since it will not supply significantly the order book of the Sonaca. Indeed, it is a very modest contract. We are being announced that 200 jobs will be created. Of course, we will never spit on jobs, but we must ask ourselves for what budget and with what investments? We are talking about 135 million euros, to which will be added the 57 million that will have to be invested by companies. Therefore, each job would cost €675,000. Excuse me, but with such a budget, it is possible to create much more, in a much more efficient and sustainable way. Finally, sixth and final criticism, money is invested, of course, but without knowing whether this production will be carried out well in Belgium. We are being asked to vote on this budget quickly because we need to get the funds out before June. However, any spillovers are only planned for 2025 – if they take place properly, for it is not safe! In order for production to start in Belgian companies, the latter must agree with the British manufacturer BAE Systems, which is currently manufacturing these companies and which will, in a way, have to create part of its subcontracting activity in Belgium. Lockheed Martin said it's no problem. However, to my knowledge, the agreement with BAE Systems has not yet been concluded. If you have any information confirming that this agreement has been signed, I would be very interested to know, Madam Secretary of State. But, I repeat, to my knowledge, this is still not the case. So the one who has to give the job to the Belgian companies has still not concluded the market. Today, we are being asked to vote in haste on a bill aimed, in particular, at giving funds, when we are still not sure that this production will actually take place in Belgium. In conclusion, given all the criticisms we are making about this text, we will not be able to support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u65	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, my speech will be brief. Without surprising anyone and certainly not those who have followed the work in committee in which the CDH spoke through our colleague Georges Dallemagne, I would like to share a few points about the problem of the F-35s. It is known that the government has chosen to invest 135 million euros in order to allow companies to participate in the acquisition program of these F-35s. We are therefore talking about EUR 135 million of investments for an expected return of EUR 400 million. This is far from the 3.7 billion societal returns announced since 2018. On the other hand, while we can obviously welcome the participation of Belgian companies in this programme, at a time when we are talking about ourselves, this participation is still not guaranteed. Since Belgium had not initially taken part in the programme, it could only hope to have feedback on future orders for an aeroplane subject to multiple criticisms about its cost, its capacity and the cost of flying time, future orders which are known to be more uncertain than ever – this was recalled by others before me. Even so, Belgian companies could only be involved after BAE's authorization – which is currently manufacturing these parts – to be able to produce them and remove them from this workload. We have already said it and we repeat it: for the CDH, it is not too late to revise our agreement. It is not a question of cancelling it, but of returning to more reasonable, pragmatic and responsible aspirations. We cannot therefore approve this budgetary change because of the hypothetical nature of our participation in the production of these parts and because of our willingness – often expressed – to have the F-35 program changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u66	Madam President, I am replacing my colleague François De Smet, who has had to be absent. Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite specific that this bill containing the first adjustment of the general budget is debated and voted on after the second budgetary adjustment – which, as a reminder, was adopted at our last plenary session on 1 April. Like our colleague from the CDH, we believe that one point deserves particular attention, namely the replacement of the F-16s by 34 new F-35s, for an overall amount of around EUR 4 billion, to which the cost of maintenance and repair, estimated at some EUR 11 billion, should be added. It will all be remembered, ladies and gentlemen, that during the previous parliamentary term, this issue had gone through a great deal of ink because of its blatant lack of transparency. Many opposition parties, now in the majority, were very critical of the troubling opacity surrounding this public procurement. It will also be recalled that many of us have requested an audit of the Court of Auditors, which finally arrived at the government and Parliament on the initiative of the Court. Of course, the budgetary adjustment that we are dealing with today does not contain all the budget items necessary to replace these F-16s, but it is nevertheless a step in the process of economic benefits linked to the purchase of the F-35s for the Belgian economy. In this respect, it seems to us important to retain the amount of EUR 135 million, given the number of direct jobs created – which would be around 200, according to the information provided in committee. On the other hand, we do not know what the real economic benefits will be for the different regions. Will Brussels and Wallonia also benefit from these benefits? Again, I fear that the shadows that surrounded this original case will continue to exist. A judicious remark had been made by one of my opposition colleagues, namely why the budgetary adjustment was not submitted to the Court of Auditors for an opinion. The Secretary of State replied in committee that the Court of Auditors did not draw up a report for this type of budgetary adjustment. However, according to the Law of 1846 on the Organization of the Court, the Court carries out an information mission in budgetary and accounting matters in favour of the House of Representatives. In all logical terms, the Court could well have to give an opinion on this budgetary adjustment and more specifically on the amount of EUR 135 million transferred under the F-16 replacement programme. Ladies and gentlemen, as you will understand, for the reasons I have just explained to you, my group will not support this first budgetary adjustment, just as we have done for the second.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u67	Madam President, Mr Buysrogge spoke about cooperation between Defence and Economics in the F-35 dossier. It was a joint project from the beginning. It was also submitted to the Council of Ministers as a cooperation. After the committee meeting, we also stated that this division of tasks and cooperation between departments remains very important and that communication on this issue is desirable. So we are going to follow up on the matter in any case. The next debate, on what comes after the F-35, I will leave it to the defence specialists in the Defence Committee. Mr Vermeersch, there is no question of waffle iron policy; the figures have been obtained after the survey of companies according to their estimates of the expected jobs. I can also confirm that the submission of budgetary control is on schedule. As things stand at present, you will have the documents by 30 April. Mr Van Hees, subsidies are used to enable companies to make the necessary investments for production. I have already answered this question in committee. Budgets are not just used to create jobs. It's a little simple to split the amounts and say that a job costs as much. Budgets serve much more. There is first the creation of jobs, then the accumulation of the know-how that remains in companies and finally the strategic position of our country which is also important in the defence industry. I understood the other remarks well, but these were not really questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u68	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to respond briefly to your statement on waffle iron policy. I looked up Wikipedia again, which is exactly waffle iron politics. This refers to the method of budgeting in Belgian politics whereby projects are assigned with a 50/50 ratio. That definition fits exactly the figures you give. You indicate that there are 200 direct full-time equivalents, of which exactly 100 in Flanders and exactly 100 in Wallonia. I can only observe that under the present government the waffle iron policy has been back.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u69	Madam Secretary of State, you are telling me that this money is being used to invest in production. That's really impressive precision. The question is precisely what the budgets will be used for, and in particular this transfer of know-how. The latter, as I said, is a way to pay twice Lockheed-Martin. They have already received money for the F-35s and in addition they receive money for the know-how. What is the amount of this transfer of know-how? This is one of the questions we ask you and you do not answer. In terms of transparency, we can expect more than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u70	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u71	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1859/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1859/1) The bill has five articles. The draft law contains 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u72	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u73	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Tim Vandenput, Marianne Verhaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u74	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (951/5) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (951/5) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in agreement with Mr Vandenbroucke, the co-rapporteur, I think it would be useful to clarify the discussion of this resolution on the accessibility of trains in the Mobility Committee. This resolution and the next resolution, items 2 and 3, have partly taken the same path in the Mobility Committee. I shall speak only about the work. In substance, the various groups and the authors will take the floor later. It concerns Resolution 951, with a view to improving the provision of trains for passengers with reduced mobility, by Mr Verhaert and his associates and Resolution 971 on ensuring the accessibility of Belgian trains, by Mr Buyst and his associates. As the titles already show, there was originally a large overlap between the two resolutions. That is why the Mobility Committee decided at its meeting on 21 October 2020 to link both proposals together and to discuss them together. At the same committee meeting, it was also agreed unanimously to organise hearings on the accessibility of rail transport in the broad sense of the word, with a specific focus on persons with reduced mobility and on the accessibility of trains for passengers by bicycle. The committee received a lot of input during these hearings. On 24 February 2021, Infrabel and SNCB explained their plans in this respect, and the employees of these railway companies also made their voice heard there. After noon, users were discussed, both travellers in the broad sense of the word, travelers' organizations as TrainTramBus and Navetteurs.be, and organisations of persons with disabilities. For example, an extensive and well-founded vision of the National High Council for Persons with a Handicap, a demands package of CAWaB, a compelling testimony with a warm plea for full accessibility from his personal experiences, from Kurt Vanhauwaert, and specifically regarding accessibility by bike came the Cyclists Association and Bicycle Council Flanders. During these hearings, it emerged that it might be better to separate the two issues from each other, and thus to separate them from each other. The proposers then reached an agreement on the one hand on the recommendations on accessibility for persons with disabilities and on the other hand on the other on accessibility for rail passengers by bike in Resolution 971 and this Resolution 951, which then focuses solely on bicycle accessibility, although the title may suggest otherwise. The committee meeting on 23 March last therefore decided to decouple both resolutions again. After the link in October, they were now decoupled, discussed separately and put to the vote. As a result of this clear division between the two aspects of accessibility and on the basis of the views expressed in the hearing, both texts were substantially amended and amended and both resolutions were finally adopted with broad support in our committee. The proposal of Resolution No. 951 was adopted by 15 votes with 2 abstentions. The resolution on accessibility for people with disabilities was unanimously adopted by the Committee on Mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first of all to welcome my colleague Verhaert, who will redefinate her proposal on the combination of train and bicycle. It is important to support the development of these two modes of transport but also intermodality. That is also the objective of the proposal. The transport sector now accounts for 22% of our CO2 emissions. CO2 emissions in the transport sector have been increasing since 1990 (+24%) and this is mainly due to road transport. In addition, 9,300 people die prematurely each year because of air pollution in Belgium. Road transport is responsible for these figures. The saturation of the city centres is also a matter of concern to us and, therefore, the modal shift is a strategy and an objective to which we must strive. It is also clearly stated in the government agreement but also in the general policy note and in the strategy of the Minister of Mobility. Trains and bicycles, in this context, are low- or even non-polluting modes of transport and it is important to reinforce their complementarity. This is planned by SNCB, which has a cycling strategy that it intends to adapt and strengthen. This was the right time to work on this issue from Parliament with the voluntary sector and cyclist associations and to decline this through specific proposals that will be able to feed into the ongoing discussions on the revision of SNCB's public service contract. Talking about a bike-train strategy means talking about a complex situation. There are different realities in the North and the South in relation to the daily use of bicycles, the relief, the quality of the bicycle infrastructure that can be found when leaving a station, and also the type of use between work and tourism. It is also necessary to take into account the current difficulties associated with the use of bicycles, for example in times of pandemic, when the good season is there and when we want to move either to the sea or to the Ardennes. But we also need to think about a long-term strategy and objectives. A global vision in the short, medium and long term is therefore necessary for this bike-train strategy, in order to convince as many users as possible to link the train and the bike to the daily and thus to do more and more without the car, either to go to the station or to get out of the station when you are at your destination. This proposal, which has now been amended, is in line with this. It defends a global vision, which incorporates this overall strategy: the strengthening of conventional and secure parking for bicycles and users who travel by electric bicycle, the accessibility of docks and rolling stock – and we will talk about it again for PMRs – a more flexible rate and reservation systems to take the bike on the train without causing additional pressure on other passengers. Finally, while it is important to create more parking and parking spaces for bicycles in the vicinity of the train station, it is also essential to guarantee a minimum number of places for bicycles in trains. Their number must be increasing in the rolling stock already purchased and to come. In short, the Ecolo-Groen Group supports this important motion for a resolution which we have amended. The bicycle must have a greater place in SNCB's public service contract, as must multimodality. We want a Belgium where we move more easily. That is also what it is, to build mobility at liberty! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u77	The reporters pointed out that this proposal and the next proposal were dealt with together in committee and that a hearing was organised for both. I shall therefore make an argument for both texts, and I do not wish to repeat too much what has already been said in committee. The Flemish Interest will approve both proposals. However, I have some reservations about both the texts and the way in which they have been drawn up. Proposal 951 initially referred to measures to improve rail transport for passengers with reduced mobility and measures to improve rail transport for passengers carrying a bicycle. Even though both themes had points of contact, they are very different. The proposal on a mix of two themes was dealt with simultaneously with proposal No 971 on rail accessibility. Following a hearing on both subjects, an amendment wave followed, in which the original proposal was, as it were, stripped of all the provisions on improving accessibility for persons with reduced mobility. That is how we finally got to the texts, as they are before us today and as it is already reflected in the report. With this method it seems to be going on as in the kindergarten class where kindergarten children who want to stand in front of the classroom and show themselves the best student in the classroom, repress themselves around her with their finger raised and all call for an answer. In this way a confused cacophony arises, in which the overview of the answers is lost. That's how it went down here. There were several proposals from the majority, with overlaps on the one hand and various cases on the other. The situation had to be cleared up by means of amendments, which even had to be adjusted at the last minute. As proposed by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, 951 with regard to rail transport for passengers with reduced mobility, which is now under discussion, all the provisions relating to accessibility for people with reduced mobility were deleted, there remained only provisions on passengers wishing to take the bike. For me, this means that the current title of the proposal no longer covers the load. Our group has therefore tabled an amendment to amend the title. I would then like to come back briefly to the committee hearing. Everyone has to make their own accounts or evaluate them. I thought it was a downright embarrassing display. Of course, the testimonies of the actors about the problems they face were informative and useful, but also very catchy. It is then really painful to see that it is not new, suddenly emerging problems that just fall out of the sky. The various problems of accessibility to public transport have been known for a long time, even for decades. The alarm bell has already been drawn several times. Just think of the open letter from wheelchair user Kurt Vanhauwaert, who received a lot of media attention at the time, to the VRT. Unfortunately, little has happened with that. Or, remember the warnings of the National High Council for Persons with a Handicap when purchasing new M7 trains; they then opted for a bric-à-brac solution, with the result that these trains are not autonomously accessible to people with disabilities. It is therefore not a new fact. I find it a little painful that this should be repeated in committee. In fact, for years too little attention has been paid to the problem of accessibility, let alone to the fact that budgets have been released or invested sufficiently effectively to address the problems. I found it significant and painful that the speakers were surprised at the "played" surprise of some committee members. Finally, I would like to touch briefly on the content. Both proposals contain some good intentions. However, this does not prevent the Flemish interest from believing that there is still a considerable amount of non-committalism and that it is still too large. A lot of things can be more concrete. I have noted that the phrase 'calling for SNCB' does not always seem to me to be the right approach. We believe that the merit of both proposals lies mainly in the fact that they have once again been brought to the attention of the House and have made matters more acute. For the actual concrete implementations and solutions, it is for us to wait for the content of the new management agreements to be concluded and especially and more importantly for the reserved budgets that will be available. After all, they decide everything. There are still many challenges ahead. There were some comments in the proposal to be made on the substance, as I have made on the European Disability Card. What happens to people with their legs in plaster? They do not have such a card, but they also have an accessibility problem. We have also talked about the reservation times of the assistance. There's still a lot of work on the shelf. We are particularly looking forward to the management agreement. That's where it's really gonna have to happen. The budgets will really have to determine this. However, we will adopt both proposals in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the issue of mobility in our country and the sustainability of our mobility, we believe very strongly in promoting combi mobility or multimobility. A combination of bike and train is an obvious choice. Nor is it the first time that this work has been carried out here in Parliament. During the previous legislature and during the previous legislature, resolutions were also included on the agenda on the combination of bicycles and trains, which said that they could and should certainly be given incentives. What the resolution before us adds to this is the dimension of taking the bike on the train. When we talk about the combination of bikes and trains, we often talk about the pre-transport, namely the road to the station. It is also often a question of post-transport, in particular the way in which the passenger reaches destination, for which part-cycle mobility is an important point of attention. However, this is also about taking the bike on the train, for which the resolution before us also pays attention. The resolution comes at a good time. For Easter, the government has agreed the framework for the drafting of the management agreements. In this sense, Parliament's current work cannot be ignored. In addition, SNCB, as Mr Parent pointed out, is working on a cycling strategy and wants to come up with a plan by the summer. In this sense, it is good that Parliament is now sending a good signal with regard to the combination of bike and train. After all, that combination is still not optimal today. Many travellers are still facing obstacles today to leave their bike safely at the stations or to take their bike with them on the train. Mr Vandenbroucke also mentioned that one can buy a ticket to take the bike on the train, but that it is not yet certain that one can bring the bike. These are all obstacles that we want to remove from the world. In this way we want to strengthen the combination of bike and train. We shall therefore be voting for this resolution with great enthusiasm. I would like to thank the initiators of this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u79	Madam President, we will support this resolution because we agree that the bicycle can be carried on the train. Between July and December 2020, passengers could take their bikes on the train for free. That was a huge success. The combination of train and bike clearly appeals to the people, at least if it is free. The number of bicycles carried on the train increased by 80% during that period, which meant that the measure had to be adjusted after a number of weeks. Among other things, the number of bicycles to the coast or the Ardennes were limited during the rush hour because the formula was too successful. Since 1 January 2021, passengers have to pay another bicycle supplement, which we regret. We understand that there are not enough places for bicycles on the train, but we can work on that. Why can't the first-class carriages be transformed into bicycle carriages? The Youth Association for Nature and the Environment JNM is still working on a petition for free admission for the bike on the train for young people. For young people, the price is very high. The bicycle supplement for the train costs 4 euros, there and back 8 euros, which is a lot for young people. Moreover, it is not a flexible amount, but a fixed amount. It does not matter whether you take the train for a short or a long journey, you have to pay the same amount. We think that price is too high. A supplement is a small extra charge for something extra. The current bicycle supplement is therefore not in line with the definition and punishes those who only make a short movement. The PVDA is therefore in favour of making the trains more accessible for cyclists, without any extra charge. Today we can do this for folding bikes, electric steppes and children's bikes. Why are other bicycles discriminated against? We think that is a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with this resolution we had the initial objective of dealing in one resolution with accessibility for people with reduced mobility as well as for those who wish to take a bicycle on the train. Ecolo-Green colleagues also tabled a resolution to improve accessibility for people with reduced mobility. Now, ladies and gentlemen, for our resolution today we have the story of two for the price of one. Let me make it clear that it is not a question of two to half-prices, it has become two strong and full resolutions, one with the focus of the bicycle on the train and one with the focus on accessibility on the train for people with reduced mobility. We have had an interesting hearing for both resolutions. Together with Ecolo-Groen's colleagues and the other committee members, we have worked hard. We have succeeded in presenting two strong resolutions with just one objective: to improve accessibility for all. The resolution we are discussing now focuses on taking the bike with us on the train. Its importance is clear. As one of the most congested countries in the world, we must make maximum use of alternatives to congestion. All different levels of government are strongly committed to cycling. I myself commit myself to that in Grobendonk and I see a lot of mayors and ships who undoubtedly do the same for king bike. The provincial authorities use both upper-local, functional and recreational cycling routes. Flemish minister Peeters recently proposed the Copenhagen plan for new cycling routes, as well as the plan for safe school routes. Now we are also promoting the combination of bike and train at federal level. It is essential to use a modal shift in which the bicycle and public transport are an important part of the solution. This objective is clearly endorsed by all levels of policy in our country. This is a missing link, in which I do not mean an interruption in a cycling route, but a missing link in an entire chain in which the bike plays a prominent role. The problem is well known, especially among those who have already taken the bike on the train. By bike on the train is always stressful anyway. Will there be room, where can I find the train guide, where can my bike be? It's certainly not relaxing to travel. I invite you to take the train from Herentals to Antwerp-Berchem. In both stations you first have to push the bike up and down the stairs after which you have to find the right car with the necessary stress. Then the bike has to be lifted again about half a meter. A good condition is certainly a requirement. The objective is clear, therefore, to facilitate the carriage of bicycles on the train and also to promote combi mobility. One can then first go by bike to the station and leave it there safely to take the train with peace of mind. Some amendments were tabled at the end of the hearing. I would also like to thank all my fellow Members for their good and pleasant cooperation. The resolution now before us sends a strong signal that the transport of the bicycle by train is a public service mission. This service must be available at an attractive rate and above all be user-friendly. Sufficient space on each train is, of course, the basis, but it is also necessary to use correct passenger information and good access to trains and platforms. These improvements, of course, not only benefit passengers who want to take their bikes on the train, they also help passengers with reduced mobility and, in fact, everyone. Colleagues, we all know that there is still a lot of work to be done, both with regard to the bicycle on the train and with regard to the transport of people with reduced mobility. I therefore sincerely hope for your support for both resolutions. During the hearings I have heard several stories that will always be with me. There were testimonies about sometimes very small practical problems but also about major structural shortcomings. With both resolutions, we hope to provide the government, in particular Minister for Mobility Gilkinet, with a framework for a more accessible rail network. One should no longer feel like taking part in the Belgian championship for field riding, the rail network should become customer-friendly, accessible and modern. That's how the train really gets a bit of travel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the authors of these resolutions, the Kempische duo Buyst and Verhaert. I would also like to thank everyone because all the groups have been able to make a contribution to strengthening the two resolutions. The most important contribution was perhaps due to the particularly interesting hearings that were sometimes particularly captivating when we heard the testimonies of people with disabilities about how difficult it is to take public transport in this country. We have known that for a long time, but it would be no harm to let those involved in Parliament speak. In this way, we have been able to dust these resolutions. It's a good thing we took our time for that. We have here two texts with broad support which give a very clear signal, which our group fully supports. We are great believers of taking the bike on the train and of the combination bike-train. This allows people to move smoothly, safely and environmentally friendly. It is, of course, intended to encourage this and make it accessible to all. It goes without saying that access to public transport is fundamental. Organising public transport is a core task of the government for our party. The train belongs to all of us, but then it must also be there for all of us and that is clearly not the case. The two resolutions are also extremely timely. If we look at the texts, apart from the specific proposals contained in them, Mrs Verhaert has already dealt with them, and Mrs Buyst will certainly do so in due course, you will see that the word management agreement comes back very often. That is not a coincidence, because the government has started a process of actually concluding a contract with SNCB with clear agreements. It's been far too long since this happened. I am convinced that SNCB shares our ambitions, but it is always good to make clear, measurable, sanctionable and enforceable agreements. The drafting of these management agreements is crucial to implement these resolutions. Finally, I would like to refer to a commitment taken by the majority itself. We have included a clear quantitative objective in the coalition agreement, in particular that all stations with more than 5,000 passengers, 40 by 2024, must be accessible. I learned from the hearings that the current budgets are on a route to 16 stations. Of course, that is far too little, and so we are obliged, if we adopt this motion for a resolution, perhaps by a broad majority, to provide the necessary budgets to allow SNCB and Infrabel to make such investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to encourage SNCB to continue its efforts to improve the quality of service provided to travellers with reduced mobility or taking a bicycle. It is therefore a text that encourages SNCB to become part of the mobility of tomorrow and to support the autonomy of these travellers. Firstly, because it is a matter of concretizing and facilitating multimodal mobility. To go faster from point A to point B, you travel to the station by bike, take the train and continue to its destination with the same bike. It has become an automaticism, a reflex for an increased number of our fellow citizens, especially during this health crisis. We must support this behaviour, which is sustainable and responsible. Secondly, the numerous hearings conducted in committee highlighted the needs that still need to be met in terms of train seats, information for passengers, adequate and secure locations for bicycles at railway stations, pricing and shared bicycles. All these needs require concrete measures, which must be part of the SNCB management contract. That is the meaning of this motion for a resolution. That is why we will support her enthusiastically.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, like the previous speakers, I very much believe in the combination of bike and train. For a mobility vision with the horizon 2040 and a lever in tackling climate change, air pollution and congestion and where the train is the backbone, the bike is indeed an ideal addition. In my view, in the resolution before us, we have managed to make the combination of bike and train more attractive. It is indeed not just about taking the bike on the train, but also about the availability of, for example, bikes at the station and about solid bicycle storage. This appeal to the government indicates the importance of the combination of bike and train very strongly. Indeed, Mr Vandenbroucke and Mr Vandenbroucke have already referred to it. It is now the right time to re-launch that appeal to the government. It is true that during the past legislatures the same nail has already been knocked on regularly. The government is currently negotiating a new management agreement. So now is the time to repeat that call very strongly. It is very important to highlight once again one of the requests we discussed in the resolution, in particular the appointment of a bicycle manager at SNCB, who can ensure better cooperation among experts, local authorities, the federal level, the Länder and the railway company. In addition, it can also help to look over the wall to the Netherlands as an example for example high quality bicycle sheds. I have already referred to it in committee. The bicycle storage at the station of Utrecht is really a gem. We must strive for such stables in Belgium. A number of colleagues have already referred to the need to include bicycles in SNCB's cycling policy. That's it for the combination bike and train for those who don't bring their own bike. We have also tried to remove a number of obstacles for travellers who wish to take their own bike on their journey. Mrs Vindevoghel, for example, we have asked that the fare for taking the bicycle on the train be made more variable and more flexible, so that a surcharge would have to be paid on the basis of distance, valley and peak hours. There must also be sufficient cycling places available on the train. The platforms should also be more easily accessible to the traveller and his bicycle. In short, this resolution lists a number of measures which can stimulate the golden combination of bicycles and trains, which Mr Vandenbroucke and Mr Van den Bergh have already indicated, and which are a way of getting the people out of the car and getting them to choose the train. Our group will therefore be pleased to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u84	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u85	* * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u86	The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u87	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Kim Buyst, Cécile Thibaut, Evita Willaert, Laurence Hennuy, Stefaan Van Hecke, Julie Chanson, Nicolas Parent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u88	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (971/4) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (971/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteurs are Mr Van den Bergh and Mr Vandenbroucke. We've already heard their report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution was drawn up in conjunction with that of the previous discussion. I would therefore like to begin by thanking the authors, in particular Mrs Buyst and Mrs Verhaert. Colleagues, the train must be a tool for everyone's mobility, whatever their physical condition. In an age of ageing, where more and more people are experiencing difficulties in travelling, rail traffic must also go with time, adapt and literally lower thresholds. Practice shows that there are still many obstacles, from too low platforms or too high boarding height over too long waiting times for wheelchair users to inappropriate accesses to the station buildings themselves, etc. The examples have long been known and have long been a thorn in the eye of less mobile people. Politics accelerated this when, in response to a written question in December 2019, I learned that the boarding height of the new M7 trains would not be adjusted to the height of the platforms. This has led to great public outrage by the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities. Since then, the theme has never really been out of date. Colleagues of all parties jumped on that wagon. In fact, important for the work of drawing up this resolution were the testimonies of wheelchair users themselves and their interest groups at the hearing in our committee on 24 February. When it comes to a topic such as accessibility, the advice is indispensable for people who face the thresholds that their environment creates every day in their own personal situation. I therefore found the session particularly useful and educational. Despite the fact that many problems have indeed been known for a long time, this has led to various adjustments to the proposal of the resolution. This is also reflected in the large number of amendments to the text. Under that long list of adjustments, there is also one of our hands, based on the testimonies in the committee. One of these adjustments was to eliminate possible discrimination against people who, due to a restriction, are less likely to make use of online sales channels, thereby putting them at risk of having to pay a more expensive price when purchasing at a station itself or on a train. The N-VA asked for this to be adjusted so that passengers with a restriction on presentation of their European Disability Card through all sales channels, including on the train itself, can always purchase multi-ride tickets at the lowest rate. This amendment received the support of all parties, for which I am grateful. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an excellent resolution in which there has been very constructive cooperation across all party boundaries, for which I would like to thank colleagues. Finally, I would like to say that this is a resolution with a polite request to SNCB. This remains fairly non-binding as long as it is not ratified in a management contract. Later on today's agenda is a resolution to quickly implement the management contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, we must avoid this resolution remaining a dead letter. I would also like to ask for your support for this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a number of people have already referred to it. Over the past few months, we have had stories from people with disabilities who testify to the obstacles they have encountered and experience when taking the train. Kurt Vanhauwaert told the committee about his nephew Thibaut, a footballer. As a funny uncle, he sometimes tries to follow a match. Kurt told the committee that his biggest handicap is mobility at the time. If he could get on and off at his home station Hansbeke, then he could really take his role as a uncle. We also heard Nino Peeters on the committee. He wondered what answer he would have to give to his son if he asked him why they could not take the train as a family to go to the coast, in order to contribute to the climate effort. However, in 2009, our country registered in the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Article 20 of that Convention states: "[...] to take all effective measures to ensure the personal mobility of persons with disabilities with the greatest possible independence." It may be clear that mobility is a basic right. We all know that if people cannot move quickly, they are largely excluded from social life. That is why the Ecolo Green Group tabled a resolution in January 2020 in which we identified autonomous accessibility as a target. In the long term, all passengers, regardless of how good or how bad they are on their feet, whether they have a buggy or a bike, should be able to take the train independently. In recent years the awareness of accessibility needs has indeed increased, including in the case of the Belgian railways, but there is still a long way to go. Much remains to be done. This change will not happen at once, partly because too long and too often wrong decisions were made, wrong investments that made it more difficult for people with reduced mobility. The Netherlands is today making its last stations accessible, but Belgium is only at the beginning of that route. The UNIA Equal Opportunities Centre receives regular reports from people with disabilities about problems with the service provided by SNCB. During the hearing, SNCB's own figures also showed that 43% of all travellers are worse off for different reasons. Not only them, but all passengers would benefit from an increase in the accessibility of trains. It is also true that during the hearings in committee we received input from various organisations. We also allowed people with disabilities to speak themselves. Finally, on the basis of their testimonies, several amendments were tabled and discussed at our last committee meeting. The result is the proposal before us today: a call on the government to pursue a clear objective, namely autonomous accessibility, when drawing up public transport contracts. Giving people back their independence and not keeping them dependent on cumbersome procedures is an objective that we can all support. This proposal for a resolution contains a number of measures which will make it easier to use the train in the short term, such as equiping all vehicles with visual and auditory passenger information that is more extensive than is currently the case, making the ramps more user-friendly and safer and making the reservation times more flexible for personal assistance. More specifically, in the large stations, which have more than 10,000 passengers, we do not want to reserve them in advance, according to our resolution. In the main stops the booking time will be up to 3 hours in advance, and in the other stations where there is now assistance, the booking time will be reduced to a maximum of 12 hours in advance. Also the abolition of the surcharge on the ticket on presentation of the European Disability Card, more information on the composition of the train via the app and website, but also in the stations, and if necessary, ensuring that there are accessible replacement buses, were included as short-term measures in this resolution. Accessibility must also be anchored in the new service contracts. Reference has already been made to this, and this is the time to launch this appeal to the government, by including clear criteria to take into account accessibility when redesigning or setting up each station and when purchasing new train sets, but also by calling on SNCB to use the expertise of disabled people in future. Finally, we are indeed referring to the government agreement, which states that sufficient budgets must be provided for making all stations with more than 5,000 passengers accessible by 2024. Colleagues, just over a month ago, we in Parliament adopted a new constitutional article, Article 22b, which provides that every person with disabilities is entitled to appropriate measures to ensure his or her independence and cultural, social and professional inclusion. I believe that this resolution is a first step as the first legislative initiative to invoke that new constitutional article. May many more follow! That the need is high, and that it was also felt by all parties, became apparent during the constructive dialogue we were allowed to hold in committee. I should therefore like to thank the various groups in particular for their work and to conclude with an appeal which we were able to hear several times from various speakers during the hearing: it is time to take action now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the initiators once again, in particular Mrs Buyst. She also referred just now to the new article 22b of the Constitution. I believe that it was discussed in committee on the same day as when we held our hearings. I remember that Mr Lanjri would have liked to have been with the two, but that was obviously not possible. It is a good sign that one fits nicely with another, and that in the fundamental right inclusion fully accessible mobility can and must play a very important role. For CD&V this theme has always been important. I refer to an initiative from the previous legislature, when we also unanimously adopted a resolution on the accessibility of trains for passengers with reduced mobility in 2015. Mr Roggeman also referred to the fact that two years later we were struck in the face when the M7s were ordered that their accessibility was not optimal. An intermediate step height was chosen, which was not provided for one platform or for the other platform at a good height. This went against the advice of the sector. This was not the best signal given by SNCB at the time, despite all the advice on steps for greater accessibility. That is why I can understand a little bit about the words that Mr Toventors said. He said we know what we're talking about in the meantime. We know that. There have been many frustrations over the past few years, but we must continue to attract that cart of accessibility. Then it is also good to talk to the target groups about this. I therefore do not quite understand your comment on the hearings on this matter. We are now discussing a new resolution on the accessibility of the train to persons with reduced mobility. We need to look at that spacious enough. The National High Council for Persons with Disabilities also made this clear during the hearings. When it comes to accessibility, it is not just about accessibility for wheelchair users, but about accessibility in a much wider sense. It is also about accessibility of information, the readability of websites, the readability of information in the stations, the audibility of messages in the stations on, for example, platform exchange. These points also require our attention. The accessibility of trains is, of course, crucial in the accessibility of platforms, as has already been demonstrated by the history of the M7s. However, it goes wider than just those platforms and those trains. It is also about the stations, the vending machines, the accessibility of the counters, the assistance, the accessible ticket sales, to which reference has already been made. If a vending machine cannot be operated by a person with reduced mobility, it is crucial that the person can get an attractive priced ticket in another way, for example on the train itself. The station environment and parking shall be sufficiently accessible. There must be blind-guided tiles at public transport stops and the like. These are also important elements in the accessibility of our public transport. When it comes to accessibility, it must also be built in that there must always be consultation with those involved. We have done so with our hearing and SNCB will now consult with the sector in any decision on rolling stock and the adaptation of stations. All these elements together can contribute to better, inclusive accessibility. In that respect, I found the hearing encouraging. SNCB explained there the new accessibility plans proposed at the end of September. At that time it was also announced that new carriages or wagons will be built for the M7 trains that are directly accessible, thus correcting the previous error. That is certainly a good step. In addition, an accessibility manager was also appointed to the group, so that accessibility is taken into account in each decision. In the longer term, SNCB also intends to pursue fully autonomously accessible rail transport. This long-term objective, which has now been formulated for the first time, is very important. By the way, Kurt Vanhauwaert called that autonomous travel an unwavering end goal. I believe that this should ultimately be our final objective, and that is why we are putting it forward in this motion for a resolution. In the management agreement to be discussed, we need to include not only that end goal, but above all all all intermediate steps. For example, an improvement in the situation in stations with more than 50,000 users should be included as intermediate targets. After all, it is very important that intermediate targets are also put forward in the short term, together with the corresponding budgets. In the end, this proposal is mainly a recommendation, a framework that can now be put to work in connection with the discussion of the management agreement. The proof of the pudding in the eating and therefore the necessary means must be in place. I thank the initiators and CD&V will be voting for the resolution with great enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u92	Madam President, we too will support the motion for a resolution. The title says it all, guaranteeing accessibility must be our final goal. People need to be able to take the train independently, that is the goal that we all support. However, the road to that goal is still very long and bumpy. We have therefore tabled two amendments to work on this progress. I, too, was very impressed by the testimonies at the hearing. Those who are well mobile do not really realize how difficult it is for immobile people to use rail transport. It is therefore high time that our society took action to remove any threshold for people with disabilities. If we want that target group to be an equal part of our society, then we must invest. Investments are needed in stones, such as the increase of platforms, in materials, such as accessible trains, in technology, in people and in time. SNCB already has a service today to help people with reduced mobility on and off the train, the B4U service. However, that service has been cut short by SNCB under the rule of the previous governments. SNCB had to save and did so, among other things, on the service for people with disabilities. Due to savings at SNCB, permanent on-site assistance has been replaced by assistance via the mobile B4U teams. There are 18 such mobile teams scattered across the country, which provide assistance on request to all those who need help to get into or out of a station. The customer must book well in advance. Nothing should go wrong or the customer will not even get to his destination, with all the consequences. Just today, I called someone who works in that service. That worker effectively complains about a shortage of staff and material to enable the work to be carried out properly. The poor reservation system is also a result of the savings policy. Do we think it is normal for people with disabilities to reserve 24 hours in advance to have a place on a train? I hope not. It is therefore remarkable that some parties are now even calling for a reservation system for all rail passengers, while we want to get rid of that system for people with disabilities. A train is not a cinema, where a place has to be reserved. Train transport is a public service and therefore the train must be accessible to everyone at all times and everywhere. SNCB has a service that assists people on the platforms and on the trains. Why don't we just build up that service? Does that cost too much? Is that how jobs are created? Does the profitability of SNCB fall through? A major problem is that the regional B4U teams are often not equipped enough to handle all requests for assistance on time. As a result, many rail passengers with disabilities are pulling out and looking for other solutions, such as a customised car or movement with other transport. The decades of savings at SNCB thus take their toll. The present proposal for a resolution to improve accessibility will not be able to reverse the effects of the savings. Another major problem is the closure of 44 points of contact. Forty-four stations close, that's 50,000 extra travellers who can't reach the window and 77 jobs that disappear. For those 77 desk clerks, the Vivaldi Government and SNCB's Board of Directors want to create a new function. They can be used perfectly to assist people with disabilities in the stations, can't they? Extra service and human contact are extremely important for the target group we are trying to help through this proposal. That is why we have tabled two amendments. With the first amendment, we want to specify the role of ticket operators in relation to passengers with disabilities, with the aim of enabling them to become more accessible to the trains and stations in Belgium, as well as to maintain the level of service through the manned counters in the train stations and thus not to reduce the number and opening hours further. With the second amendment, we would like to ask SNCB to strengthen the B4U teams so that passengers who need assistance in getting on and off the train only have to reserve two hours in advance for departure from any accessible station in Belgium. Today this often has to be done 24 hours in advance or booking is not even possible at all. We hope that our amendments will be supported, because we believe that this will make a significant contribution to accessibility in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to my speech just now. Together with my colleague Tim Vandenput, I tabled a motion for a resolution, in which we had the initial objective of including both accessibility for people with reduced mobility and those who want to take the bike on the train in one text. Our colleagues from Ecolo and Green also tabled a resolution to improve accessibility. During the hearing, several speakers asked for two separate texts. Recommendations were also made. Beyond the party boundaries, I worked with colleagues Kim Buyst, Nicolas Parent and other colleagues on two strong proposals of resolution with a clear objective of improving accessibility for all. I would like to thank colleagues for their constructive cooperation across party boundaries. To improve things together, to remove barriers and to tear down walls, those are the reasons why I do politics. Not only during the hearing, but also outside the hearing, people talk to me very often about this problem and the walls they are colliding with. It is a feeling that people with reduced mobility often experience. The testimonies are poignant. These people also deserve to move smoothly from one destination to another, without any delay. Too often, people with reduced mobility clash with obstacles that seem banal to us at first sight: a door that opens in the wrong direction, a threshold but also last minute railway changes. For a person with reduced mobility, a small inconvenience can have very serious consequences. I think we all agree that we must strive for full accessibility. Persons with reduced mobility should be able to use public transport without assistance. Unfortunately, we are still a long way off at the moment. Important switching stations such as Antwerp-Berchem, Lier or Herentals are today anything but accessible: low platforms, high stairs, large transfer distances. We need to make a real leap forward here, as has also been included in the coalition agreement. Of course, not all the problems will be solved today and tomorrow. Not every platform will be increased in a few years. Not every train will immediately have a low entry. However, it is important that every investment we make in our rail network should go in the right direction and that we should work as quickly as possible to maximise accessibility. That is why the resolution also calls for a reduction in the deadline for requests for assistance, for better training of staff, for quality and adapted passenger information. These are improvements that we can make in the short term. In addition, every investment in stations, in platforms, in rolling stock, must include full accessibility as an absolute condition. It is not possible to purchase any material that is not accessible on its own or to renew platforms without taking into account persons with reduced mobility in 2021. The stories of people with reduced mobility about the obstacles they encounter when taking the train will always be with me. We will, of course, approve this resolution with great enthusiasm with our group, so that we can really talk about an inclusion society in 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u94	Madam President, I refer to my speech on Resolution No. 951, in which I also dealt with this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u95	Madam President, this motion for a resolution complements the previous one, since it also aims at improving the accessibility of the train to passengers, this time targeting people with reduced mobility. This is in line with the new article 22ter of the Constitution, which grants every person with disabilities the right to full inclusion in society, including the right to reasonable accommodation. In the discussions on this article, I had insisted on the duty of the State to ensure that it acted in practice and that there was a proactive obligation to ensure that everyone, regardless of his or her disability, could easily and safely access the place where he or she wished to visit. We are there, and we can only rejoice. Like the first motion for a resolution, this proposal has been the subject of lengthy and rich hearings, stressing in particular the need for SNCB to commit itself today, and in the framework of its next management contract, to meet the needs of commuters in terms of assistance at railway stations, ease of booking, equipment – secure access ramps – more efficient and adapted information at railway stations and on its website and mobile applications or training of staff. Providing our stations and docks with PMR friendly infrastructure involves significant budgetary investments. Today, only one station in four is fully accessible to people with reduced mobility. This situation can no longer be sustained. It is no longer possible to deliberately set aside people on the margins of society by preventing them from moving freely and without coercion. This is an issue which I am particularly sensitive to and which prompted me to question the Minister of Mobility on the issue of accessibility for PMRs at the new train station in Anderlecht. On that occasion, I was able to commend the government's willingness to take up this sensitive and costly issue, but it is really essential because it is part of a society that needs to be ever more inclusive. I am also pleased that the resolution makes accessibility for persons with reduced mobility a condition for the allocation of furrows for passenger traffic at national and international levels. I would therefore like to thank the authors of this resolution and to assure them of the support of my group in the vote that will take place earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u96	Madam President, I will be very brief. I shall of course begin by congratulating those who have contributed to the development and densification of this text, those who have been the authors of it. We will support this document, which is valuable for the 20 or so recommendations it makes. We are enthusiastic about the scope of the text, but also realistic about the same scope. We know that a resolution is more the formulation of a political wish than the material realization of that wish. As far as we are concerned, it is particularly the recommendations 18 and 19 that will have to be closely monitored, that is to say, those which are intended to really provide useful budgetary resources for future financial years, in order to give concrete expression to what Parliament is about to suggest to the executive. What matters to us is to ensure that those who have shared this enthusiasm to bring this resolution irrigate the veins of their minister so that, in budgetary arbitrations, it is passed on and translated into reality. In particular, the new management contract will be a true appointment. This will enable us to better measure the gap – which I hope is as thin as possible – between the generosity of the demands made today and to which we adhere, and the practical implementation of these demands in future budget models as well as in the future management contract. I think this is an important element, because it is more so at that time than today that we will have a real meeting with the truth: that of the numbers, that of the acts afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the various speeches. I also thank those who took part in the work in committee, during the hearings, but also during the reflections we had on the amendments. I would also like to thank the civil society actors who participated in the hearings. It was quite logical to hear these field experts and to confront their reality with a text which can be theoretical at first glance but which is enriched by these different experiences. One in three Belgians can be considered a person with reduced mobility. Today, 5% of stations are fully accessible. This means that the obstacles are numerous and are found in the majority of situations – which have been reflected in the testimonies – while mobility is a right, a condition for full integration into society, while the autonomy of persons with disabilities is a right now recognized in the Constitution. These figures allow us to measure the scale of the challenge of making rail more accessible. It will probably take a generation to achieve the goals we must set ourselves. This perspective is long. It must therefore mark the vision we want for the Belgian rail, which must come down through investments made and to be realized which will have consequences for several years or even decades. Each euro invested in railway stations or rolling stock will therefore have to take accessibility into account. I am pleased that in the introductory preamble to the work on SNCB's public service contract and Infrabel's performance contract, this notion of accessibility is indicated as one of the objectives. These contracts have not been fully reviewed since 2008. It is important for SNCB and Infrabel to be able to set goals that meet the challenges of our time, such as accessibility, which everyone recognizes the fundamental importance of our society. Knowing that rolling stock and a station have an interest and a reach over time, but that it also takes time for everything to be renewed, acquired, transferred and accessible, it is important that we can also act in the short term. As long as not all stations and trains are accessible, facilities must be strengthened, e.g. with the use of assistance, but also by reducing booking times for this assistance, by improving the accessibility of reservation systems, websites, applications and information on docks or trains. Information must be accessible regardless of the type of disability. This has been pointed out by several colleagues. We want short-term facilities and results for these objectives. As I said, we are at the start of the discussions on SNCB's service and performance contracts, but through its hearing and proposal work, Parliament can and, I hope, will unanimously send a very clear signal today to the government regarding this priority on rail accessibility. We want a more accessible, more inclusive Belgium for our generation and future generations. This proposal is a contribution, perhaps modest, but I think it is important, to this objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u98	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u99	• Maria Vindevoghel (971/5) * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u100	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u101	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Els Van Hoof.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u102	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1624/6) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1624/6) The title was changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the consideration of the appointment of a Belgian Special Envoy for Women's Rights, Girls' Rights and Gender Equality". The title was changed by the Committee to "Proposal for a resolution on the investigation into the appointment of a Belgian Special Envoy for Women's Rights, Girl Rights and Gender Equality." The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal concerning a special envoy for women's and children's rights will be presented by Mrs Van Hoof on 24 November 2020. It points out that the resolution proposes that Belgian foreign policy should pay more attention to two vulnerable groups in societies around the world, namely women and children. Women account for 50% of the world's population, but have more difficult access to education, health care and the labour market and are to a lesser extent represented by public and political representatives. Children account for 35% of the world's population and more often face poverty, exploitation and neglect. Mrs Van Hoof reminds us of a number of observations, which she will certainly explain shortly. It concludes with the aim of the resolution: Belgium must play an exemplary role in protecting children's and women's rights. Children's and women's rights are not of secondary importance and must be at the heart of foreign policy. All actors and institutions active in foreign policy must ensure that their actions consistently promote the rights of children, girls and women. In order to coordinate such policies, the proposal calls for the appointment of a special envoy for women's and children's rights. This envoy should strengthen diplomacy, promote the principles of children's and women's rights internationally, and should consistently put the interests of children, girls and women first in Belgian foreign policy. In the general discussion of 9 December 2020, Ms Safai recalled that gender is a cross-cutting theme enshrined in the Law of 19 March 2013 on Belgian Development Cooperation. The systematic integration of the gender dimension into all dimensions of foreign policy needs to be further emphasised. The appointment of an Envoy for Women's and Children's Rights should contribute to this objective. Mrs Safai will support the motion for a resolution, but has questions about the precise powers that such a special envoy would have vis-à-vis other bodies. Mr Cogolati immediately indicated that his group would support the motion for a resolution. He argued in favour of obtaining advice, including from the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity. Mrs Ponthier has been in favour of the motion for a resolution. In many countries, women's and children's rights are still poor. She also announced that her group would table amendments to supplement the proposal. Mrs Jadin also expressed her support for the proposal. It points out that Sweden has played a pioneering role in the appointment of an ambassador for a feminist foreign policy, who coordinates policies to protect women's and girls' rights. It was therefore desirable to obtain information on the experience gained abroad. Mrs Reynaert also welcomed the initiative and stated that she would support this proposal, which was in line with the priorities of Belgian development cooperation policy. However, she wondered how the proposal should be operationalised and suggested that the Minister for Development Cooperation should be consulted on this. Mr De Vuyst was also in favour of the proposal and supported in particular the last two requests in this proposal, focusing in particular on the specific vulnerabilities of girls and the interlinkages between gender, age, ethnicity, class and sexual orientation, and paying particular attention to the most vulnerable children in foreign policy. Mrs Van Hoof thanked the members for their support. It takes note of the requests for written opinions. At the committee meeting of 24 March 2021, Ms Reynaert stressed that during the corona crisis it became painfully clear that women's and children's rights were and were being violated and violated massively throughout the world. She then gives a number of examples. The number of domestic violence cases in Belgium increased by 50% last year. The main victims were women and children. Mrs Reynaert thanked the many bodies that had given their opinion to further refine this resolution. It also points out that the general discussion expressed concerns about the terms of reference, financing and fear of losing sight of the other vulnerable people in society. These elements are included in the amendments tabled. Its group will therefore support it. Mr Lacroix pointed out that Belgium had always adopted a progressive and ambitious stance in the fight for gender equality and women's and girls' rights at the international and national forum. Belgium has always included these issues in its various positions and diplomatic actions. However, the annual reports of Foreign Affairs do not provide much insight into the efforts and objectives in this area, particularly as regards external trade. For his group, the focus on equality should be part of a much broader strategy, in favour of integrating gender equality into foreign policy, development cooperation policy and defence policy. Mr Lacroix therefore welcomes the fact that, for the first time in history, three women are also at the head of these three departments. Mrs Ponthier supports the objective of the resolution before us. In many countries human rights, women's rights and children's rights are under pressure. Her group regards support for fundamental women's rights throughout the world as extremely important. However, Ms Ponthier regretted that the text of the initial proposal had been slightly weakened. It was first proposed to appoint an envoy for women's rights, while at present there is only an inquiry into this matter. Although her group supports the motion for a resolution, a number of recitals and proposals contain comments. Mrs Jadin looked forward to the joint work that could be done so that the issue of gender equality could be applied across the board within the institutions, Belgium's positions in international fora and the policy choices to which Belgium can contribute. After all, the issue remains topical. Mr De Vuyst pointed out that his group would also support the proposal. He stressed that the envoy should be able to focus on gender equality and that gender equality should also be the norm in international fora, where he or she will perform that task. However, the mission must not become a symbol function. He therefore urged the Special Envoy to be closely involved in the policy coherence which the government wanted to conduct. The envoy should also be involved in foreign trade. After all, unfair trade agreements also cause poverty or armed conflicts, which affect women. In this respect, his party will also support the motion for a resolution. Mrs Verhaert pointed out that violence against women and girls has reached new peaks, not only because of the coronapandemic, but also because of the numerous conflicts, of which women and girls were the first victims. There are still many problems and obstacles that need to be addressed worldwide, such as access to education, equal access to the labour market and other issues. Its group therefore fully supports the motion for a resolution. Mrs Van Hoof decided and thanked everyone for their support. The proposal was amended. 27 amendments were tabled, three of which will be presented by the Flemish Interest Group, which will be explained by my colleague, Mrs Ponthier. The 24 other amendments were tabled by Mrs Van Hoof and her majority colleagues. The resolution before us was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be as brief as possible, but since this text is of particular interest to us, I would not neglect to highlight it. Mrs Van Hoof proposes a text in a very specific context. First, it is known that women's rights have been lagging behind on all fronts since long before the covid crisis. Of course, great progress has been made in this area, in recent years – we cannot neglect them – but inequalities remain glaring at all levels of our society. I am thinking in particular of health, reproductive health, sexual health... all aspects of women's health are lagging behind. In terms of security, it is known that women are being subjected to violence all over the world and in an increasingly consistent manner. Access to decent work, access to land, and access to income remain real challenges for women all over the world. Secondly, the rights of women and girls, after years of progress, are already beginning to decline when equality between men and women has not yet been achieved. We know that macho politicians are advancing everywhere, including in Europe. We can see that with President Trump in the United States. But much closer to home, there are more and more politicians who think that equality between women and men is not, in the end, such an important issue. This phenomenon existed before the covid crisis. But with Bolsonaro in Latin America, Trump in the United States, who fortunately is no longer president, and other politicians, we are witnessing a retreat. And then, there's the covid crisis that has been impacting us for over a year now, and that makes us lose 35 years in terms of the prospect of equality. Before the health crisis, there was still 100 years of work to achieve equality between women and men; now it will take 135 years. In short, the context was favourable for Mrs Van Hoof to present us with a proposal to improve efficiency, coordination between our external public policies, with the aim of advancing the issue of gender equality and gender equality. The central demand for Mrs Van Hoof's text was really geared towards better coordination and coherence of all our tools. We have a lot of tools, and we don't come from anywhere. Fortunately, Belgium continues to be a rather progressive country at the international level. But that does not mean that what we do is perfect. Things need to be improved. Mrs Van Hoof's text proposed to strengthen coherence by appointing a special envoy for women's and girls' rights and gender equality. It should be noted that 20 countries at the international level are already doing so. Mrs Van Hoof will explain this much better than I did earlier. Among them, there are already 12 European countries. We think that's not enough, but that's interesting. This will enable us to better integrate, monitor and enforce the principles of equality between women and men in our foreign policies. It was at the heart of the demand, and it seemed important to us. As ecologists, we wanted to contribute to this text, strengthen it and support it, in particular by adding some accents that I will develop here. The first was to recall that a progressive policy, perhaps even feminist, foreign, obviously had to integrate not only foreign affairs but also foreign trade, development cooperation and defence. External trade seemed to us to be particularly important. We know it's one of our main levers. Foreign trade often has a very negative impact on women. We wanted to put this forward, and that appears in the text. We are very happy about that. The second thing that we felt was really important in supporting the proposal was to pay specific attention to development cooperation. Development cooperation is a very important tool in the fight for equality. It may be our flagship tool in the fight for equality between women and men. It seemed important to us to recall that this requires a two-pronged approach. There is a need to mainstream gender into our cooperation policies, but also to support projects that directly fight for equality between women and men. For the time being, the proportion of bilateral aid that integrates gender into our budgets reaches about 60 per cent, and 5 per cent of bilateral aid integrates gender as its main objective. Specialized civil society is asking us to go up to 85 per cent of official development assistance, which would be geared towards strengthening gender equality, and up to 20 per cent for specific projects. Invoking this path of increase, we know that we cannot ask for the moon, but we can at least hope that our development cooperation policies will reinforce this requirement. This amendment has been supported by all colleagues – which we welcome. Another important aspect, as environmentalists, was that we should continue to pay more attention to increasing the number of women in diplomacy. It is a priority of Mrs Wilmès, who shares this ambition. However, it should be recalled that only 11 per cent of key positions in Belgian diplomacy are held by women. We must therefore be able to do better. This is crucial in an international feminist policy. Finally, I would like to point out that women must be at the heart of Belgium's response to the global crisis – and not just in terms of covid – because of course I am thinking of the climate crisis and the collapse of ecosystems, which particularly affect women. We therefore continue to call, through this text, for equality between women and men to be a permanent priority for Belgium in all its responses. Our discussions were interesting and well organised within the committee. In my view, we have been able to reach a comprehensive and ambitious text, delivering a strong message to our government. I would like to conclude by thanking Mrs Van Hoof again for having initiated this debate in committee, which has enabled us to reach an ambitious text which we, as ecologists, will obviously support with the greatest pleasure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you first of all for the excellent report by my colleague, Mrs Samyn, which was almost comprehensive. However, I have a tendency to explain our view of this proposal, which we have, of course, also expressed in committee. The motion for a resolution before us today has come a long way. It was tabled in November last year and the discussion began in committee in mid-December. But then it fell a little quiet, especially because of the numerous amendments that still had to be negotiated with the other Vivaldi parties and also because of the numerous opinions, which are of course valuable, which still had to be requested. It was sometimes a pity to see that a proposal whose content seems so logical had to go such a long way. It was sometimes put on the agenda week after week in committee and then removed from the agenda week after week because of the slow roll-in of the opinions requested and perhaps also because of the difficulties encountered by the majority in dealing with the proposal. It has to be said, and this is also stated in the text, 20 countries, of which 12 are Europeans, already have such a envoy. Flemish Interest has therefore wondered why we have waited to appoint one in our country as well. Now, if those amendments can optimise the present proposal, that is of course good. However, as far as we are concerned, the changes to the text in this case have not always resulted in optimization, rather often a flattening. When it comes to the content and title of the proposal, it is also about an erosion of the original concept, in which the soup was extended in such a way that it is likely to become faint and tasteless. That's too bad. My group has already expressed its wish to support this proposal because of the noble desire to promote women's and children's rights abroad and to incorporate this in all aspects of the foreign policy of that country. Indeed, the protection of women's and children's rights is under great pressure in many countries, especially in countries such as China and India, and in Islamic countries in particular. Does this mean, however, that we are not critical of the text? No. We have also indicated this from the beginning. As far as we are concerned, the proposal contains a number of nevertheless radically progressive aspects and the practical roll-out of a number of parts raises a number of questions. For example, the proposal calls for a genuine feminist foreign policy, following Sweden's example. Women's foreign policy wants to say that it is no longer possible to conduct a foreign policy tailored to national interests without constantly checking it against the 4 r's - rights, representation, resources and reality - which need to be improved for women. This may not be a problem in an ideal world, and it is even advisable to strive for it, but it may, as far as we are concerned, make it difficult to negotiate with other states without pointing the finger at them with regard to their women's rights policy. That should not necessarily be the case, but it could be counterproductive if we wanted to negotiate geopolitically pragmatically. Colleagues, don't get me wrong. We must dare to raise the most pressing human rights issues and make women's rights a part of them, but at the same time we must ensure that we do not undermine the strength of our foreign policy and undermine the promotion of our values in the world itself. My group is only in favour of realism in this area. That is a first observation. A second point that called for special attention was the part in which this proposal clearly takes the starting point of equal outcomes and less that of equal opportunities and rights. At least that is how it feels when we read the explanatory statement to the text. The fact that there is no 50/50 distribution between men and women in all, but, of course, above all high political and economic functions, appears to be evidence of structural oppression of women by men. Scientific research revealing the gender equality paradox shows that on average men and women have different interests and ambitions. These psychological and often biological differences lead to different career choices. This translates into a number of things in our society. We can all see that. Equal rights means releasing men and women to make their own choices instead of trying to squeeze them into the same mould in the name of equality of outcomes. We would like to say that we have reservations about that part. A third point in this motion for a resolution which drew our attention was that this proposal supports more progressive abortion rights worldwide. In one breath one also criticises the decisions taken by ex-President Trump who has stopped all financial support to foreign organizations working in the South for safe abortion, contraception and family planning. A majority amendment makes that even more clear. More on this later when I explain the amendments, but it is clear, as far as I am concerned, who is wearing the pants in this majority. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in general we support the proposal for the protection of women's and children's rights on the international stage, but we would have preferred to see it outside the radically progressive ideological sphere that has begun to surround this proposal, perhaps not from the outset, but certainly after the numerous majority amendments. I think every article has been amended. So there was not much left of the original proposal. It was all adapted to the sense of the seven parties of the majority. We have therefore worked to improve the text and tabled a number of amendments. On the one hand, they could be complementary and, on the other hand, our group believes that some of the bad parts could be removed from the text. In particular, we tabled additional amendments calling for attention to be paid to child marriages. We believe that this problem is still under-exposed. This proposal was an excellent opportunity to highlight this issue and certainly to include it in the focus of this motion for a resolution. We also tabled an amendment calling for extra attention to be paid to the horrific Islamic-inspired practice of female circumcision. The figures speak for themselves. In a third amendment, we asked for particular attention to be paid to the lack of access to education for women and girls in many countries in the Middle East, Africa and Asia. We will be putting these amendments back to the vote in the hope that the majority parties will reconsider their views in this respect. We also tabled amendments to delete the Vivaldi amendments. The first concerns what I just said, namely the focus, that is how we feel about it, on ethically controversial issues such as reproductive health and rights, it is formulated. That is, of course, a reference to a pro-abortion position. We are defending, as a nationalist party and as a conservative party, the national sovereignty of each country and the right to defend a conservative position on this issue. So we do not think that this is a part of this and ask with our amendment to amend it. I have already explained a further deletion in my general statement. In particular, it is a matter of focusing on equal rights and opportunities for men and women, something that we are naturally in favour of, and not on equal outcomes. The amendment, which I suspect was put forward under the impetus of Ecolo-Green, shows that there is a movement towards female quotas. The article deals with positive discrimination, while the only decisive criterion should be individual capacity. We find it unacceptable to give priority to two equal candidates on the basis of sex. We therefore call for that request to be deleted. It is a pity, however, that our amendments were not stopped, all the more so because they were sincerely tabled with the best of intentions. The additional amendments were certainly intended to optimise the text and some of these concerns are undoubtedly also concerns of the main proposer of this proposal. As has already been said, we will be presenting these amendments again in the near future. We will also ask for a separate vote on recital G, which I have just explained. It is very unfortunate that the noble intentions of this proposal were greatly weakened by the majority parties. When it was initially about the appointment of a special envoy for women's and children's rights, something for which we were all asking parties, the proposal was watered down to investigate the possible appointment of such an envoy. I regret that this way the fish were drowned in a Vivaldi sauce. Nevertheless, bearing in mind the higher objective, we wanted to support this proposal. We will do the same in the final vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we must indeed bear in mind the higher objective. Today, with the adoption of this resolution, we are taking an important step forward to boost the focus on women's rights. It has been repeatedly said that this is not an unnecessary luxury nowadays. I give the example of 20 March last, a black day for women's rights, because on that day Turkey announced its definitive withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention. The next day, this resolution came up and everyone was firmly convinced that the resolution and the questions it raises are really necessary. The Istanbul Convention has always been groundbreaking. It is a binding treaty that imposes obligations to prevent and combat violence against women. Unfortunately, Turkey's withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention is not an isolated case, but a symptom of a global trend. Autoritarian leaders in countries such as Hungary, Poland, Turkey and Brazil want to throw gender ideology in the bin. In the meantime, violence on women is increasing: one in three women worldwide experience physical or sexual violence. One in five girls is married as a child, which means 23 children, especially girls, are married per minute. One in three adolescents face genital mutilation. Yet there are still 49 countries today that do not have laws to protect girls and women from violence. Girls and women, for example, do not have access to fundamental rights and access to education in such countries, and this is a world where we live. We all too easily assume, as I often hear, that gender equality and attention to women's rights are achievements, while this fight is going on. This motion for a resolution makes our country even more a champion in this fight. In our foreign policy, we must set up a dam against what was already referred to in the Sensoa Explanatory Memorandum by the experts as the macho policy of the erdogans, the bolsonaros, the orbans and the putins of this world. Gender has always been a central theme in the Belgian development cooperation policy since the 2016 strategy paper, but there is still a need for a more operational dimension. Mrs de Laveleye has just pointed out that only 11% of ambassadors are women and that only 5% of bilateral development aid has gender equality as its main objective. This resolution also raises such problems. In order to make our foreign policy not only gender-sensitive but also active, a gender-responsive policy is needed. Someone is needed to guide the existing action plans............................................................................................................................................................................................... That is why I am very pleased that my proposal was adopted unanimously in the Committee on External Relations. That envoy would promote and encourage the principles of women's rights internationally in foreign policy. It is also very useful, as has not yet been mentioned, that this envoy could strengthen our membership and our candidacy for the Human Rights Council of 2023-2025. It has become a balanced but also ambitious text, with a lot of imput from the various parties, but also from the special envoys in Sweden and the Netherlands. It was nice that they gave their advice very quickly. We also received advice from relevant organisations such as Plan International, Unicef, Argo and the Women's Council. The amendments have led to more clarification of the role and role of the Special Envoy, in the sense that the Envoy should not work independently of the other departments of the Foreign Affairs Office, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, but be integrated into it, with an additional task of ambassador. The next assignments this ambassador could take would seem useful to us. Firstly, the agenda in international fora and multilateral meetings. Secondly, gender mainstreaming in all areas of foreign policy. Mrs. Ponthier, I can reassure you, I'm wearing pants today. We believe that this includes sexual and reproductive rights, as well as access to contraception, which Trump abolished. We must give women in Africa access to contraception. It's a means of moving forward as a woman. The higher the woman is educated, the fewer children she has, even in Africa. This will ensure that the world also progresses and that there is economic progress. That is what the right to abortion belongs to. We have never wanted to reverse the law that is still in force today. We believe that a balance has been struck between women's right to self-determination and the protection of the fetus. We've always said that. We are not going to oppose that. We are also defending sexual and reproductive rights worldwide. You mention that because of the biological differences, women have different interests. No, I think that the fact that we're being forced into roles during our childhood shows less ambition at a later time in our career. This has been proven by several studies. That's why we use the concept of gender instead of gender.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u107	Thirdly, the envoy can provide dialogue and networking with other special envoys. It is very important that we get around the table about women's rights, girls' rights and gender equality. The only answer to a distribution and control policy is, of course, cooperation. The fourth role is a monitoring role. There are indeed a lot of instruments, a lot of reports, a lot of actions. No one, however, has an overview of the whole. That's why the Messenger should report on that. At least we know that many words that are written with good intentions will also be translated into action. It has already been mentioned several times that twenty countries already have a special envoy, twelve of which are in Europe. In Sweden, for example, this has led to 40% female ambassadors and 22% investment in specific women's projects in developing countries. That's where we need to go. Mrs de Laveleye also pointed out that we should not be missing at that table of special envoys for women's rights and girls' rights to debate this, to learn from each other, also to build a dam together against the oppression of women and girls worldwide. Let us all ensure that this resolution becomes a reality. Practical and financial feasibility needs to be examined. We can all continue to question our ministers. There are indeed three women ministers, in Defence, in Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade and in Development Cooperation. The momentum is there to work on it. It is also necessary for the Human Rights Council. I hope, therefore, that you will support the questions contained in this report as well. It is actually an insurance policy for the equal rights of men and women, for the future. Let us not sit back and think that women's rights and gender equality have been acquired. Let us now take this extra step to look at human rights as women's rights and ensure women's rights as human rights and in the longer term. Thank you for the good cooperation and I hope once again for the unanimous support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u108	Madam President, I notice that I am the only man in this debate. I am therefore very honoured that I, as the only man, have the right to uphold women's rights. That is, of course, also the commitment of this resolution. That is why our party will, of course, support this proposal. We are also pleased that the author has taken into account the many opinions of the various authorities and administrations. In particular, the advice to separate women's rights from children's rights was important in this respect, because in many cases these are related issues, but they often also require a separate approach. We believe that the envoy should focus on gender equality, because that is also the norm in the international network that has just been mentioned. For us, request 7 is crucial, which calls for special attention to be paid in foreign policy to children and women in the most vulnerable situations, such as children and women on the run, children and women living in poverty and in conflict zones. Poverty caused by conflicts, including the war on terrorism and economic warfare by sanctions, and poverty caused by unfair trade agreements and economic practices are usually also the root causes of widespread violations of human rights, not only of women's and girls' rights, but of course they are particularly hard hit. The crucial factor will of course be what power the Special Envoy will have effectively to defend the interests of girls and women in Belgian foreign policy. In this sense, we will also monitor and insist that the Belgian Special Envoy be closely involved in policy coherence, which is also important in the coalition agreement and has been mentioned several times by the Ministers for Development and Foreign Affairs. The special envoy must be given a full voice in the so-called triple D nexus, cooperation between diplomacy, development cooperation and defence. That is still not enough in our view, because that nexus does not really have a link with trade policy or European trade policy, which is crucial. The European Union cannot continue to conclude unfair trade agreements, and I am thinking, for example, of the European Partnership Agreements. The criticism of this is starting to grow more and more, both at home and abroad. Unfortunately, these partnership agreements often have the habit of disrupting local economies. In doing so, military intervention is often used to control the conflicts resulting from this disruption. There are plenty of situations that can unfortunately be presented as a painful illustration of this. Think also of the situation in the Sahel and the fact that many farming communities are deprived of or disrupted by industrial fishing or that many people are unfortunately driven from their countries and lands by concessions from multinational companies, which is also, of course, the result of unequal trade agreements and, unfortunately, also contained in the European Partnership Agreements. Because of the disruption of the local economy, groups of armed forces want to claim part of the cake and conflicts arise. There is often military intervention to control the conflicts resulting from the disruption. In this way we find ourselves in a spiral and continue to fight against symptoms. The appointment of the Special Envoy will therefore, in our view, bring little real change. As the Foreign Affairs Office stated in its opinion, it will unfortunately remain symbolic policy. Having said that and despite these reservations, we will of course support the motion for a resolution, because it also has the merit and is a necessary step to integrate the policy function and continue to monitor and enforce respect for women's rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the corona crisis has stopped for many of us. We adapted our lives, which wasn't easy. Worse still, for many women and children worldwide, the world did not stand still, they went backwards. I am thinking of the girls for whom the schools were closed. I am thinking of young women who do not have access to contraception and for whom access has also been hampered by the corona crisis. Allegedly, the rights of women and girls are being violated all over the world. Even more, the treaties that protect their rights are being actively challenged. On 20 March 2021, Turkey withdrew from the Convention, which is ironically referred to as the Istanbul Convention. Progress on the Beijing Declaration is also blocked by forces that fear that, by giving rights to others, their own rights will be compromised. We shouldn't even go far. There is also work to be done with us. The number of domestic violence calls increased by 50% in 2020. The main victims were women. Kids always share in the blows, if it's not physical, then it's mental. We are sending an important signal from Parliament to turn the tide. Our movement wants to bring everyone along and ensure that everyone has access to the same rights, that everyone, anywhere in the world, can build a good future. For all these reasons, we support the motion for a resolution which calls for the appointment of a special envoy to examine women's rights, girls' rights and gender equality in the form of an ambassador with a monitoring function of the foreign and development cooperation departments. For us, the aim of such an envoy should be to actively promote our priorities on women's and girls' rights in the various international fora, i.e. beyond symbolic politics. We ask that the appointment of an envoy has no budgetary impact on the development cooperation budget. This budget is already being used to realise many important issues where gender equality is a priority, such as the eradication of extreme poverty and inequality, combating climate change, decent work, social protection and access to health care. Gender equality is also a priority for our group in Belgian foreign policy. The text stresses that by explicitly linking a growth path to both gender mainstreaming of ODA projects and the design of specific projects where gender is the main objective. Finally, our group supports the demand in the text for a proactive approach to increasing the number of women in diplomacy. With 30% of women in a foreign career and only 10% of postal heads, we dangle at the bottom of the list of European countries. We are therefore looking forward to the roll-out of the gender action plan on this subject. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will therefore fully support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u110	Madam President, I wanted to go back to what took place in the United Nations Committee on the Status of Women on 26 March, as it concluded with the adoption of final conclusions which were not ambitious. On that occasion, a number of voices stood up to denounce the status quo that had been achieved by those conclusions, despite the fact that the health situation had considerably worsened the conditions of women throughout the world. We recalled this quite long yesterday in our debate on the motion for a resolution on combating domestic violence. Today, therefore, we are at a moment's notice that we must redouble our efforts to guarantee the rights of women and children, to protect them, to ensure their safety and their full autonomy. We are also at a time when we must be intransigent with regard to any regime that today wishes to loosely withdraw from fundamental international conventions, such as the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. Today, more than ever before, the fight for equality between women and men must involve better representation of the stakes in international and national institutions. We must defend the interests of women who still see their rights and freedoms violated in Belgium and elsewhere. At every demonstration for women's rights, we chant this slogan: "Solidarity with women from all over the world". It is in this spirit that this motion for a resolution is in line. It is also part of a logic aimed at recognizing the need to defend the rights of children, whose rights are guaranteed by the 1989 United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, but which remain far from being fully guaranteed and respected. This motion for a resolution is thus an initiative that we can only support in the light of the greater vulnerability of women and children in accessing their fundamental rights, even if I regret that the initial request to appoint such a envoy has evolved into the possibility of considering such a designation. However, this proposal provides for a systematic integration of the gender dimension into all aspects of our foreign policy. We have, of course, already done so in the past. I am thinking, for example, of Belgium's participation in the She decides initiative on the right to abortion and access to contraception. We must be proud of that. But it is time today that this really becomes an automatism, that the universality of human rights is expressly the thread of all our diplomatic relations and of all the policies that our country implements here and elsewhere. My group will therefore enthusiastically support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u111	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u112	• 31.. Ellen Samyn cs (1624/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u113	• 32 – Ellen Samyn cs (1624/7) * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u114	At the request of the Vlaams Belang Group, a split vote on recital G and the vote on the whole will take place at a later stage: the vote on the reserved amendments; at the request of the Vlaams Belang Group, a split vote on recital G and the vote on the whole. The vote will take place at a later date: the vote on the amendments tabled; at the request of the Flemish Interest Group, a split vote on recital G and the vote on the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u115	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Andre Flahaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u116	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1520/6) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1520/6) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u117	Madam President, Mr Flahaut is the main contributor to this resolution, which deals with the situation of minorities, particularly during this covid period. Mr Flahaut explained at the meeting of the Committee on External Relations that the situation of minorities required a more comprehensive overall approach. Now it is often the case that media attention draws our attention to a specific group of minorities. This usually leads to forgetting what is happening elsewhere. The spotlights never stay on the same page for long, and so one case is soon replaced by another. In addition, the vulnerability of minorities as a result of the covid pandemic has increased. This motion for a resolution must therefore be seen against this background and is therefore not directed at a particular country, according to Mr Flahaut. The resolution before us today, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, states that, in all its bilateral and multilateral contacts, the Chamber will make full use of all the levers of parliamentary diplomacy in order to ensure that minorities' human rights are fully respected worldwide and that any violation of them is strongly condemned. According to the text, the Court urges the Government to strongly condemn the real violation of the rights of all ethnic-religious minorities and any situation which could lead to such a deterioration. It also calls on the government to continue its efforts to encourage all countries to ratify human rights treaties. It concerns in particular the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Forced Disappearance, and also the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. This resolution also calls on the Government to continue to support a strong and uniform position of the European Union on the situation of human rights in the world, as well as respect for ethnic-religious minorities, the ban on the death penalty and the fight against forced removal of organs. This resolution also calls on the Government to continue to play a leading role in strengthening the role and position of both the United Nations and international observers in any monitoring and protection of those rights. During the general discussion, Mr Cogolati of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats expressed his support for the text. He indicated that it would be appropriate to refer in the text also to the United Nations Convention on the Prevention and Repression of Genocide, signed in New York on 9 December 1948. The more recent United Nations Declaration on the rights of the indigenous peoples of 2007 is also an important text aimed at the recognition of indigenous peoples and the protection of their human rights. Mr De Roover of the N-VA stated that the proposal for a resolution was in line with a proposal submitted by his group, in particular the resolution on the protection of religious and philosophical minorities in North Africa, the Near East and the Middle East adopted by the Chamber of Representatives on 2 July 2020. The protection of minorities must be a priority of foreign policy for the N-VA Group. Ms Kattrin Jadin of the MR noted that the purpose of the motion for a resolution is topical. The importance of support for minorities was also underlined during the recent budget negotiations and the MR Group was therefore able to support the proposal of the resolution. Mr Steven De Vuyst of the PVDA-PTB stated that his group could follow the principle of the motion for a resolution. He did have some comments on the text. For example, the text refers to problem situations that already existed before the covid crisis and he mainly refers to problem situations outside the Western hemisphere. The speaker therefore missed a number of points to which no reference is made, for example the vaccination apartheid in Israel with regard to the Palestinians. The speaker also indicated that the proposal tends to be humanitarian interventionism outside the West and does not offer any added value. Mr Flahaut replicated that the proposal for a resolution was a short, strong text which reminded us of the problems of all minorities and of a number of principles of international law. It is not the intention to list all the bottlenecks, but just to give some examples. It is important for Parliament to give the signal that it does not forget minorities in the whole of this crisis. Mrs Marianne Verhaert van Open Vld indicated that her group supports the text. I myself have indicated that for our group, non-discrimination of minorities must be a priority in foreign policy. It is therefore important for the Chamber and the Government to work on this, bilaterally and at European and multilateral level. Mrs Van Hoof of CD&V also indicated that her group supports the text. Minorities are still often in vulnerable positions that are aggravated by the covid pandemic. Measures are being abused which discriminate against them and it is a good thing to repeat the principles. In the course of the Article-by-Article examination, recitals A, D and E were adopted unanimously from the original text. Seven amendments were also tabled to amend the other recitals and to insert a number of new recitals. The main purpose of these amendments was to introduce the interventions I outlined earlier into the text. Of the seven amendments, five were adopted unanimously. One amendment was withdrawn because it was identical to another. The last amendment, tabled by Mr Flahaut, aimed to insert a new recital pointing to the effects of the rise of nationalism, which has increased the hostility towards ethnic and religious minorities. That amendment was adopted by 11 votes in favour, 3 against and 2 abstentions. The amended motion for a resolution was then adopted by the Committee on External Relations by a vote in favour, 11 votes in favour and 5 abstentions, with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats). Madam President, that is my oral report. Soon I would like to ask you to speak on behalf of our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u118	Madam President, I would like to thank the reporter, Mrs Reynaert, but I would like to make a comment on the report in a moment. The text of the resolution tabled by Mr Flahaut was initially in line with the N-VA resolution on the protection of minorities, which is also referred to in the report. In our view, and confirmed by the Chamber through that resolution, the protection of minorities must be a key element of our foreign policy. I cannot say that the text was adopted unanimously, because there was a vote against, particularly from Mr Schlitz at the time, in the meantime promoted to Secretary of State. Mrs Schlitz apparently had a problem with that at the time. For us, the adoption of our resolution was a strong signal, which means that this legislature remains the milestone resolution on the protection of minorities. The PS, supported by the majority, decided to present the resolution now before us, which is a version of our resolution, but with a COOVID-19 sauce on it. In the difficult times of the pandemic, it is true that the problem of a possible threat to the rights of ethnic and religious minorities must be raised once again. Questions are put to the Foreign Minister and to the diplomatic corps, questions which they may have in their trap and which are also part of our rhetoric in international fora and in contacts with countries that are not so close to minority rights. So far, so good . Not only did we not see any bones in this resolution, which was also entirely in line with the resolution we tabled. Then something happened at 11:00. It was considered useful to introduce a new recital H, I quote: 'Whereas, inter alia, the rise of nationalism has increased the hostility towards ethnic and religious minorities, the violent and systematic intimidation of these minorities leads to those communities being branded as apostate aliens and as a threat to the State'. Perhaps we were too much to evaluate a consensus and thought: this must be avoided. Let us do this through recital H, in which we say that, among other things, due to the rise of nationalism, blababla blablabla. It is very interesting, among other things, because there are a number of examples where one could say that the rise of communism is putting a number of minorities at risk. Some forms of socialism could have also been denounced by Mr Flahaut in a recital which he forgot to submit, but which would undoubtedly have improved the truth of this resolution. Something has led us to suspect that party political arguments were behind this, because, Mr Flahaut, certain forms of nationalism will undoubtedly hinder and even harm the protection of minorities, but know that just those minorities are also an expression of forms of popular nationalism and that they can not only be the cause, but that nationalism can also be the victim of increased persecution. If one considers it wise to compromise a possible unanimity in this House by a so-called expression of humanitarian concern, by party political manoeuvres, then so be it. This has led to us being wrongly excluded from the report at 11 o'clock this explanation of vote, which I have also noted, and which has changed our yes vote to a abstention. That will also be our attitude to the final vote. The world won't get any worse. I wish Mr Flahaut's motion for a resolution a success, including for those people who are being persecuted because of their nationalist attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u119	The proposal addresses the human rights situation of minorities who are particularly oppressed by the corona crisis. According to the main petitioner, Mr Flahaut, governments abuse the measures to combat the virus to restrict minority rights even more or more. The proposal therefore calls for the condemnation of human rights violations and the use of all possible levers of parliamentary diplomacy to improve the human rights situation of minorities in all our multilateral and bilateral contacts. A number of requests are also addressed to the Belgian Government. The Flemish Interest is as concerned as the petitioner about the various human rights issues worldwide. We can very well imagine that minority rights are now even more restricted by a number of regimes than otherwise, as public authorities, under the guise of public health, legitimise the most radical measures. In fact, we do not even have to look abroad for that. Here the measures may apply to the whole of the people, but they are the same mechanism of governments which, outside democratic control, are strengthening their control over society and the fundamental rights of citizens through the corona crisis. The text rightly mentions the difficult human rights situation of the Uighurs and Kazakhs in China, the Rohingya in Myanmar, the very diverse ethnic-religious groups in Sri Lanka, India and the Middle East, the Roma in Eastern Europe and the Amazon Indians in South America. In a list, there is often a risk of incompleteness. The Flemish interest chooses not to be selective and to consistently address human rights issues around the world, whether it be the ethnic Uighur minorities in China, the Rohingya or the Catalans, the Jews and Christians in the Middle East, the Armenians in Azerbaijan or the African farmers in South Africa. The question therefore arises as to why the proposal cites only a few examples and keeps quietly silent about even denying in every debate, when, for example, it deals with the systematic murder and discrimination of Africans in South Africa. As far as we are concerned, we can call it man and horse when it comes to increasing persecution of Christians in Islamic countries in the Middle East and Africa. Mr De Roover has already referred to it. Fortunately, this was done after amendment of the proposal, initially by Mr De Roover, and subsequently by the main proposer, Mr Flahaut. Nor have we seen any clear support going beyond lip service in relation to the Armenian human rights violations in and around Nagorno-Karabakh. The aggression against the spiritual minority of the supporters of Falun Gong and the Tibetans in China is also spoken far too little. These minority groups too are the victims of the regimes in their country, whether they are covered under a covid sauce or not. So there is some consequence in the defence of minority human rights, which unfortunately is all too often lacking. One should not be selective in supporting minority rights. Perhaps even more importantly, ladies and gentlemen, words should be consistent with deeds. This proposal has a sense of moral hypocrisy because of the actions of the petitioner's party. It is not a question of making roaring statements in support of human rights, as in the proposed text, and of making sweet sandwiches with those responsible for large-scale human rights violations. The situation of the Uighurs and the Kazakhs, raised in China and at the same time concluded an extradition treaty and the EU investment agreement with the Chinese regime, is, at least, critical. Another too infamous example concerns the arms deliveries from the Walloon state-owned company FN Herstal to the Saudis. In doing so, the Walloon Government, in which the petitioner's party is waving its hands, indirectly throws oil on the fire of today's biggest humanitarian crisis. The weapons of FN Herstal are deployed in the civil war in Yemen between the Al-Hadi government supported by Saudi Arabia and the rebels supported by Iran. In this way, the PS, of course, undermines its own moral dignity, and hence the proposal for a resolution. As a blow to the head of the proposal, Mr Flahaut, I am threatening to repeat this amendment, in which he states that the rise of nationalism is responsible for the growing hostility towards ethnic and religious minorities. That will indeed be the case, as I have already said, in a number of places, but generalisation is never good, not even in this case. We have therefore opposed the addition of that recital for the well-known reason. We ourselves belong to a nationalist party and, in the long run, we may be the victims of this attitude. That general amendment does not belong at all to the reasoning followed by the main proposer here. Madam President, for all the reasons I have just mentioned, for the selectivity and the lack of hypocrisy, we abstained in committee and will do so again in the final vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u120	Madam President, I would like to thank the author of the proposal, because minorities are indeed more vulnerable than ever before. The covid pandemic has only strengthened this vulnerability in both the home and the rest of the world. Everywhere, citizens' rights and freedoms were restricted, but in some cases measures to suppress minorities were also abused. For example, the Muslims in India were designated by the classical media and on the Internet as the source of COVID-19. They were attacked as a result. The government has pushed up a number of authoritarian measures in Jammu and Kashmir since the outbreak of the crisis. The violence against Muslims, Christians and other minorities, many of whom belong to the lower caste, shows the emergence of a particularly aggressive form of repression of religion and acts of aggression aimed at forcing minorities to give up their distinctive identity or leave the country. This is an example of ultra-nationalism, and the motion for a resolution indeed states that it goes too far in some countries in this area. Nor is it a new development that religious freedom is diminishing around the world and that persecution of the long-standing religious minorities is a fact. Reference has already been made to the Uighurs and to the Kazakhs in China. We will soon be discussing the situation of the Rohingya in Myanmar here in Parliament. Extensive ethnic religious groups in Sri Lanka, India and the Middle East are also being suppressed. This should not be encouraged under the guise of co-vid measures. That is why we must strongly condemn this and it is important that we ourselves take the initiative and support today, namely that the covid crisis is not abused in order to further suppress certain rights. The importance of the Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which is so important for every citizen under pressure in various countries, was therefore underlined once again. We will therefore support the resolution before us with the greatest enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the working population or the working people are often set against each other on the basis of ethnic and religious prejudices. This is not just the case in our country. This method is also used in other parts of the world. It is also used to set up different groups of people against each other. Worse still, there are racist ideologies that still justify colonialism and imperialism on the assumption that one group is better than or superior to another and that one has more rights than the other and that some peoples or minorities can be dominated or oppressed. I am also thinking of other forms of discrimination, such as sexism. These are all strategies to divide the working population and undermine its ability to act. That is why the fight against discrimination and racism is also in the DNA of the Labour Party. We also see that the pandemic is being abused today to even more harm certain communities and certain ethnic groups, which, for example, is clearly visible in Israel that the vaccination of the Palestinians and the occupied territory is trying to make it difficult and even counterproductive. I am thinking, for example, of the refusal of the United States to accept the call of Secretary-General Antonio Guterres to suspend at last or at least temporarily murderous economic sanctions or blockades during the pandemic because they also prevent or hinder the access of entire populations to adequate medical care. The fact that entire populations are affected also hits minorities hardest. We will support this resolution which calls on Parliament and the government to condemn this kind of wrongdoing, especially minority suffering most. Despite the reservations we had earlier because a list was made which we do not think was exhaustive, we are above that. I have the impression that some speakers here want to get the favourite minorities in, but we are above that and acknowledge that universality and will vote for this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the pillars of human rights is the protection of minorities from discrimination. Many international conventions therefore relate directly or indirectly to this protection. The resolution highlights a genuine concern for us. The corona pandemic has affected everyone worldwide, but for some the toll was and is much heavier. The pandemic has deteriorated the position of minorities in the world. COVID-19 has led to more division, discrimination and oppression. Older people, refugees, women and ethnic minorities are hit hardest by the already existing inequalities, but the pandemic is now painfully magnifying and making these inequalities worse. Amnesty International's recent annual report confirms that corona is also an attack on human rights worldwide. The organisation therefore calls for human rights to be put at the heart of these rehabilitation measures. My group supports this call. Together with Parliament and the government, and with this resolution as a guiding principle, we want to use this in a bilateral, European and multilateral context. The initiators rightly want it to be reaffirmed that we continue to defend these basic rights and that we value the protection of minorities anywhere in the world and of any religion or ethnic origin. For our group, all people are equal and therefore they must be treated equally. Colleagues, the corona pandemic also creates momentum. We need to use that momentum. The time has come to make a number of structural changes, including in the area of human rights. A comprehensive framework that sets out a policy on the protection of minorities, as laid down in this resolution, is a first step in this direction. However, the socialist groups want to go even further by using that momentum to implement sustainable changes with human rights as a compass. We have therefore put forward a proposal for the creation of a binding framework for sanctions for human rights violations and a proposal for a law on duty of care, both of which will be under consideration shortly. These are two structural proposals to which we, as a socialist family, attach great importance and in which we take the lead. Our Group therefore supports the resolution now before us as the first step forward in the structural approach to human rights violations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Mr Flahaut for the tabling of this important motion for a resolution. Indeed, the fate of minorities in the world today is extremely worrying. It requires our diplomacy and our government to deal with it. As soon as two days ago, the NGO Aide à l'Église en Détresse published an overwhelming report which mentions a situation more than alarming, namely that today nearly two thirds of the world's population lives in a country where religious freedom is violated. The report points to well-known violations of this fundamental right in 62 of the 196 countries studied, i.e. one in three countries compared to one in five in 2018. Of these 62 countries, 26 are listed as persecution and 36 as discrimination. The covid-19 pandemic and its socio-economic damage have amplified existing religious and regional conflicts. It has also sometimes been deliberately instrumentalized by Governments to raise certain ethno-religious minorities to the rank of scapegoats and stigmatizing or even genocidal policies. In India, criticism of the Muslim community for allegedly causing the spread of the virus has led to increased harassment, which has escalated with the broadcast of fake videos on social media. In Sri Lanka, as Amnesty International reports, the government has ordered the compulsory cremation of the bodies of persons who died of the covid-19, de facto preventing the Muslim minority community in the country from exercising its funeral rites. In Pakistan, access to health care or food in some cities is conditional on conversion to Islam. There has also been a significant increase in abductions, conversions and forced marriages of young Christian or Hindu women. In the Sahel, the jihadist threat spreads like a trail of powder leading to an intensification of attacks against Christian communities. In Iran, Jews are held responsible for the health crisis while Christians are still being repressed in Turkey and China. Of course, we cannot forget the Uighurs in China, the Roma in Hungary, the Rohingya in Burma. This list of minorities whose rights are violated is only growing. It can't last any longer. That is why my group will support this motion for a resolution and the many concrete requests made to our diplomacy and to our Government. I must, however, regret a certain lack of coherence. Indeed, the proposal calls on our Government to ensure that other States ratify the international legal instruments that our country itself has not ratified. I am of course referring to the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, which Belgium has not ratified for 16 years now. Of course, we must encourage States to ratify the Protocol. However, this request would have had far more weight in the case of an exemplary State. I also regret that the Council of Europe's framework convention for the protection of national minorities is not even mentioned in the context of this motion for a resolution, a convention which Belgium has still not ratified for reasons - it must be said - purely Community. However, this Convention is the first legally binding European multilateral instrument on the protection of national minorities in general. It aims to promote the full and effective equality of national minorities by ensuring the conditions necessary to preserve and develop their culture and to preserve their identity. It does so by stating the rights of national minorities in the field of public life, such as freedom of peaceful assembly, freedom of association, freedom of expression, freedom of thought, conscience and religion, access to the media and in the field of language freedoms, education, cross-border cooperation, etc. Finally, I must recall that even in our country, freedom of worship is being undermined by health measures. These measures are, of course, justified in view of the still very tense situation in our intensive care services, but encourage many believers to denounce what they consider to be the most restrictive measures in Europe. I therefore call for vigilance to assess the proportionality of the restrictions imposed on cults in our territory, particularly in this period of Ramadan. This is a request that I would like to make to the government in view of my party's commitment to the secularism of the state, precisely because political secularism means allowing everyone to exercise their freedom to believe or not to believe without coercion and at peace with those who share other philosophical or religious convictions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u124	Madam President, I thank the chairman of the Committee on External Relations and the rapporteur. Finally, this resolution complements its own resolution on the situation of women and children. In these minorities, women and children are often the first victims of their situation. This resolution is based on a finding. Of course, it is not complete. We could still have discussed at length and added a great deal, but then we would have come to a wind-resolution as we are accustomed to doing in this House. Voluntaryly, this resolution starts from the observation that in the particular situation in which we are today, there are things everywhere in the world that are no longer being discussed. And yet, drama continues to occur. The main objective of this resolution is to draw attention once again to these tragedies, but also – and above all – to commit to having permanent attention to situations that do not cease to exist because there is a health crisis. I would just like to stress that the title of the motion for a resolution, which I hope will become a resolution, is "the protection of all minorities". Perhaps it would have been better not to mention one or the other, or perhaps we have made the mistake of wanting to be too complete, but the term "all" means what it means: independently of the ways and places in which a situation occurs, what is important is to be attentive to the situation of men and women, regardless of the regime that imposes this situation. On the other hand, no regime is excluded and no minority is to be forgotten. This attention must also be permanent. This resolution joins that of Mrs Van Hoof, as I have just said, but also – as has been recognised in committee – the resolution that was tabled some time ago in another context by the N-VA colleagues. From the moment when the objective is the same, one must be able in politics to give back to Caesar what is Caesar's. It is also a question of intellectual honesty, and I want to be honest with all members of this House. The peculiarity here is that we are talking again about parliamentary diplomacy. I am convinced that parliaments today, in the political situation throughout the world, have an important role to play. Parliamentary diplomacy, Madam Chair, believe me, it can make a lot of progress when it is well done and supported by assemblies that may not be unanimous but that support and creditize action. Of course, there is parliamentary diplomacy. However, we are also addressing the government, all the governments of our country, because the concern of minorities and what is imposed on them does not stop at the borders of our Communities. I would like to thank all the groups that participated in the discussion in a positive and constructive way. I would also like to say that democracy does not mean unanimity. Democracy also means diversity, debate. This is the real democracy we must lead in our assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u125	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u126	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u127	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Tomas Roggeman, Frieda Gijbels, Wouter Raskin. The Commission on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1566/4) The Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1566/4) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. The rapporteur is Mrs Verhaert, who refers to the written report. Does a petitioner ask to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have just debated two resolutions aimed at major improvements in SNCB, a resolution on the interaction between rail and bicycle, and a resolution on the accessibility of the train for disabled people. Both texts, as has just been explained, have given broad support. All the parties present have stressed the importance of this. Despite the importance of the themes mentioned and the likely positive vote later this evening, these resolutions are without object as long as the government does not conclude a management contract with SNCB. The legal autonomy of the public enterprises ensures that operational adjustments can only be made at the request of the public authorities through registration in the management contract. It is there that the agreements are established between the State and the SNCB and Infrabel respectively. Without these guidelines, all our parliamentary aspirations, requests and resolutions, however unanimous, simply feed the paper basket. The management contract covers every aspect of the service, the supply of trains, accessibility, sustainability, pricing, punctuality, finance, sustainability, you name it. Anything the government requires of our rail companies must be registered there. The latest management contracts with SNCB and Infrabel date back to 2008, when the two companies were still subsidiaries of SNCB Holding. That holding company has been abolished for eight years. The contracts expired in 2012, and since then we have been working with temporary extensions and adjustments. It goes without saying that it is not enough. Without management contracts, the government has hardly any control over the activities of SNCB and of Infrabel. These companies act at their own discretion, and this often leads to conflicts between SNCB and Infrabel, but also to conflicts between companies and the government. Remember the recent discussions on the closure of SNCB's offices. Remember also the discussions between the government and SNCB on the offer of the free Railpass. Remember the discussions about the more or less value of the famous window rule. In the absence of a framework, there is also no clarity about the limits of administrative autonomy. That is a circumstance that contributes to friction. We need these management contracts, ladies and gentlemen. When the government took office, it announced its intention to conclude new management contracts. That's what the coalition agreement says. I quote: 'The government will conclude new sanctionable management contracts in the short term'. In the Mobility Committee, Minister Gilkinet stated on 10 February what he understood under that short term. It explained that it intends to conclude those new contracts before 2022. In other words, according to the Minister, they must be ready this year. However, experience from previous regimes has taught us that deadlines in this area are particularly stretchable. Ministers Galant and Bellot also had the ambition to conclude new management contracts with SNCB and Infrabel. However, their deadlines have been postponed time and time again and eventually shifted to St. Juttemis. That has given rise to this motion for a resolution. We do not want this time to be postponed again. That is why we want to strengthen the deadline set by the government itself. The basic text of this resolution therefore refers to the submission of these documents to the Court by December 2021. That is, after all, the deadline imposed on itself by the Minister. It also gives him immediate cover in the conversations he has to have with both public companies. Last Wednesday, moreover, it became clear that this is relevant. Then Minister Gilkinet communicated his deadline. Perhaps the approach of this resolution was not entirely strange. Our prediction immediately came true because the Minister has for the first time postponed his deadline. It is now stated that the management contracts must be completed by the end of 2022. In other words, that is a year's delay, whereas this government itself is not yet a year's work. This shows once again that it would be no harm for Parliament to strengthen this deadline. It is an important new element since the vote in committee. Although I am concerned about the postponement of management contracts, I would like to give the Minister the benefit of the doubt. If he gives the public the assurance that the management contracts will be there in the course of 2022, we as an opposition will show our good will and continue to exercise patience. That is why we have tabled an amendment to our own text, in accordance with last week's Minister's statement, to postpone the deadline to December 2022. This is an amendment which can only be accepted after a negative vote on Rule 88. During the committee meeting some colleagues asked me why the N-VA did not raise this issue when it was still in the government. The answer is very simple: we have done so, repeatedly and publicly. In fact, it was at the request of the N-VA that the rapid conclusion of management contracts was explicitly included in the government agreement. Unfortunately, the relevant ministers, from parties other than mine, have not succeeded in achieving that. Colleagues, almost every group has resolutions on SNCB and Infrabel, which require the management contract. I refer to the resolution by Open Vld on the combination of bike and train, the resolution by Green and Ecolo on the accessibility of trains for the disabled, the resolution by Green and Voor on the safety of rail crossings, the resolution by CD&V on the recognizability of signs for people with colour impairment, the resolution by myself, adopted by a large majority, on the cooperation of SNCB and Infrabel on the realisation of the bike highways and another resolution by myself on the introduction of self-driving trains. In addition, in the previous legislature, the Chamber also adopted resolutions which should be enshrined in management contracts, such as on the establishment of train points, on multimodality in rural areas, on diversity in SNCB and on open dates. Ladies and gentlemen, all these resolutions must be enshrined in management contracts. If you take your own work seriously, therefore, you are in favour of the early conclusion of management contracts with me and with the ministers and you are voting in favour of our resolution, i.e. against rejection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u129	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u130	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Ellen Samyn, Annick Ponthier, Steven Creyelman, Pieter De Spiegeleer, Kurt Ravyts. The Committee on External Relations proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1216/2) The Committee on External Relations proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (1216/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. The rapporteur is Mrs Jadin, who refers to the written report. Does a petitioner ask to speak? Mrs Samyn, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of the 106th anniversary of the Armenian genocide, I would like to draw your attention to our proposal for a resolution on genocide between 1915 and 1923 on Armenians living in Turkey. In 1915, the then Ottoman Empire, which would later become Turkey, systematically eliminated and deported the Armenians who lived in the realm, killing between 500,000 and 1.5 million people according to various estimates. Many studies have already been devoted to the situation of the Armenian population in Turkey at the beginning of the 20th century. There can be no doubt about the historical evidence of the organised and systematic murder of the Armenians. These facts were already recognised by many countries as genocide, including France and Germany and also by Charles Michel on 18 June 2015. The then Prime Minister then recognized the Armenian genocide on behalf of Belgium. Four years later, on 24 April 2019, at least on the anniversary of the genocide by the Armenian community, this Parliament approved an amendment to the bill containing various provisions, which felt like a slap in the face for the Armenians. This included a distinction between genocides that are punishable when they are denied, minimized or condoned and genocides for which this does not apply. The Armenian genocide was outside the scope of the law. Thus, there appears to be a painful difference between internationally recognised and unrecognised genocides. At the time of the Armenian genocide, the crime of genocide did not exist. However, there is sufficient historical evidence in this regard and the Armenian genocide fulfils the conditions to be described internationally as genocide. The Armenian genocide is therefore recognised by Belgium, but it is not punishable by law to deny it, to justify it or to minimize it, as is the case with the Holocaust, the Rwandan genocide of 1994 or the genocide of Bosnian Muslims in the Srebrenica in 1995. That is a bizarre and ambiguous attitude, since on the one hand we recognise the Armenian genocide, but on the other hand, the Armenian question does not seem to be significant enough to include it in the negationism law. One genocid is apparently not the other in this country. In 2019, N-VA colleagues tabled an amendment to delete that provision, which was unfortunately rejected. As far as we are concerned, the Belgian position on the recognition of this genocide is, at the very least, to be said to be overflowing. I am guessing that the issue is sensitive because of the relationship with Turkey. It is partly because of the lack of political courage of countries such as Belgium that the Erdogan regime can still commit unpunished crimes against countries such as Armenia or Cyprus today. History repeats itself. With the present proposal, we are calling for attention to be paid to the refusal of Turkey, the controversial candidate country of the European Union, to recognise the historicity of the systematic genocide committed by the last government of the Ottoman Empire in 1915. Only a clear and unambiguous recognition of the genocide by the Turkish state can bring some relief. The recognition of the crimes and mistakes of the past is a prerequisite for reconciliation between peoples. The continuing cover-up of Turkey's painful history of the Armenian question will always stand in the way of healthy relations between Turks and Armenians. Peace can never exist without justice, neither in Armenia nor elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u132	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u133	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 11 February 2021, an appeal to the candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 25 February 2021 for a term as a French-speaking member and a term as a Dutch-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 11 February 2021, a call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 25 February 2021 for a mandate of French speaking and a mandate of Dutch speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: Francophone applicants: - Mr. Jean-Noël Colin, Professor of Cyber Security at the University of Namur, - M. Dany Donnen, responsable BDO Advisory Digital, - Mrs. Charlotte Ducuing, researcher at the CiTiP centre at KULeuven, - Mr. Franck Dumortier, researcher at the Cyber and Data Security Lab at the VUB, - M. Laurent Giquello, partenaire chez North American Technology Research Group, - Mr. Gaëtan Goossens, DPO at Thalys, - Ms Laure-Anne Gultens, Legal Adviser at the Institute for AutoCar and AutoBus, - Ms. Mona Kombadjian, Legal Adviser, FPS Public Health, - Ms Nathalie Ragheno, first adviser to the FEB, - Mr. Jean-Marc Van Gyseghem, lawyer at the Brussels Bar. Dutch-speaking applicants: - Mr. Alexis Bossuyt, lawyer with the Cultuur department, Jeugd en Media van de Vlaamse Overheid, - Mr. Aaron Haché, native digital, - Mr Andries Hofkens, lawyer at the Brussels Bar, - Mr. Nick Noël, Director of Operations of the Rupel Police Area, - Mr. Bavo Van den Heuvel, Strategic Advisor at Responsum, - M. Steve Vandenbroecke, IT manager Sunen Corrugated cardboard, - Ms Griet Verhenneman, DPO at the Universitair Ziekenhuis Leuven, - Mr. Gert Vermeulen, regular professor at the UGent, - M. Victor Yangandi, senior legal counsel Actiris. French-speaking candidates: - Mr Jean-Noël Colin, Professor of cybersecurity at the University of Namur, - Mr Dany Donnn, responsible for Digital Advisory at BDO, - Ms Charlotte Ducuing, researcher at the CiTiP of the KULeuven, - Mr Franck Dumortier, researcher at the Cyber and Data Security Lab of the VUB, - de heer Laurent Giquello, partner bij North American Technology Research Group, - Mr Gaëtan Goossens, DPO at Thalys, - Ms Laure-Anne Gultens, Legal Adviser at the Institute for the AutoCar and the AutoBus, - Ms Mona Kombadjian, Legal Adviser at the Public Health Office - Ms. Nathalie Ragheno, First Adviser to the VBO, - Mr Jean-Marc Van Gyseghem, lawyer at the Brussels Bar. Dutch-speaking candidates: - Mr Alexis Bossuyt, lawyer at the Department of Culture, Youth and Media of the Flemish Government, - Mr Aaron Haché, digital native, - Mr Andries Hofkens, attorney at the Brussels Bar, - Mr Nick Noël, Director of Operations at the Rupel Police Zone, - Mr Bavo Van den Heuvel, strategic advisor at Responsum, - Mr Steven Vandenbroecke, IT manager at Sunen Corrugated Cardboard, - Ms Griet Verhenneman, DPO at Leuven University Hospital, - Mr Gert Vermeulen, just Professor at the Ugent, - Mr Victor Yangandi, senior legal counsel at Actiris. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 April 2021, I propose that you forward the candidatures to the political groups and proceed to the hearing of the candidates in the Committee on Justice. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 April 2021, I propose that the nominations be submitted to the political groups and that the candidates be heard in the Committee on Justice. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u134	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 1 April 2021, Mr. Marc Allegaert, who became an effective member following the resignation of Mr. Tony Van Parys and holds a master's degree in law, was asked whether he wished to apply for the office of member of the Central Prison Supervision Board, given the resignation of Ms. Valérie Arickx. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 1 April 2021, Mr Marc Allegaert, who became an effective member following the resignation of Mr Tony Van Parys, who holds a Master's degree in Law, was contacted with the question whether he wished to apply for the mandate of a member of the Bureau of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners, having regard to the resignation of Ms Valérie Arickx. By e-mail of 6 April 2021, Mr. Marc Allegaert indicated that he did not wish to apply. By e-mail of 6 April 2021, Mr Marc Allegaert stated that he did not wish to apply. Consequently, no effective member holding a Master of Laws would wish to run for office as a member of the Bureau. Consequently, there is no effective member with a master's degree in law who wishes to apply for the mandate of a member of the Office. However, in accordance with Article 24, § 4, paragraph 1, of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 concerning the Prison Administration and the Legal Status of Prisoners, the Chamber must appoint from among the actual members of the Central Board of Prison Supervision a Bureau, composed of two French-speaking members and two Dutch-speaking members, of which at least one member per linguistic role holds a master's degree in law. However, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 24 (4) of the Basic Law of 12 January 2005 on the prison system and the legal status of the detainees, the Chamber should appoint a Bureau, consisting of two Dutch-speaking and two French-speaking members, of which at least one member per language role holds the Master's degree in law, among the effective members of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Office. Given that there is no candidate for this term of office as a member of the Bureau and that Ms. Valérie Arickx's alternate, Mr. Raf Gerits, has resigned, the House must appoint a new effective member, who will also be a member of the Bureau, who holds a Masters in Law. Since there are no candidates for this Bureau member's mandate and since the alternate of Mrs Valérie Arickx, Mr Raf Gerits, has resigned, the Chamber should appoint a new effective member, who is also a member of the Bureau, with a master's degree in law. In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 21 April 2021, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur an appeal to the candidates for the term of office of Dutch-speaking "effective member – member of the Bureau" holding a master's degree in law of the Central Prison Supervision Board. In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 21 April 2021, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of Dutch-speaking "effective member - member of the Bureau" with a Master's degree in the Rights of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Service. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 1 April 2021, a call for candidates was communicated among the actual Dutch-speaking members for the term of office of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervision Board, given the resignation of Mr. Ralf Bas. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 1 April 2021, a call for candidates was published among all Dutch-speaking effective members for the mandate of member of the Office of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners, having regard to the resignation of Mr Ralf Bas. This appeal was also addressed to Mr. Pieter Houbey, who, as an alternate to Mr. Ralf Bas, will resume his term as an effective member, with effect from 1 May 2021. This call was also addressed to Mr Pieter Houbey, who, as an alternate member of Mr Ralf Bas, will take up the mandate of effective member from 1 May 2021. By e-mail of 7 April 2021, Mr. Pieter Houbey applied for the Bureau's term of office. By e-mail dated 7 April 2021, Mr Pieter Houbey submitted his candidacy for the mandate of a member of the Bureau. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 April 2021, I propose that you forward Mr Pieter Houbey's candidacy to the political groups and hold his hearing in the Committee on Justice. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 April 2021, I propose that Mr Pieter Houbey's candidacy be given to the political groups and heard from him in the Committee on Justice. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u135	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 25 February 2021, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Moniteur for the terms of office of a member of the Federal Ethics Commission. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 25 February 2021, a call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 10 March 2021 for the mandates of member of the Federal Deontological Commission. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: Francophone applicants: French-speaking candidates: 1. Magistrate or professor of law - Mr. Pierre Jacobs, President of the Mons Court of Appeal - Ms Françoise Tulkens, extraordinary professor at UCLouvain - Mr. Melchior Wathelet, former professor of law at UCLouvain 1. Magistrate or Professor of Law - Mr Pierre Jacobs, President of the Court of Appeal of Bergen - Mrs Françoise Tulkens, professor at the UCLouvain - Mr Melchior Wathelet, Professor of Law at UCLouvain 2. Former members of the House and/or Senate - Mrs. Jacqueline Herzet - Mr. Etienne Knoops - Mrs. Marie-José Laloy - M. Melchior Wathelet 2. Former members of the Chamber and/or Senate - Mrs Jacqueline Herzet - Mr Etienne Knoops - mevrouw Marie-José Laloy - Mr Melchior Wathelet 3. Former agents - Mr. Melchior Wathelet, former administrator of SNCB-holding 3. Former Mandates - Mr Melchior Wathelet, former administrator of the SNCB holding company Dutch-speaking applicants: Dutch-speaking candidates: 1. Magistrate or professor of law Aucune candidature 1. Magistrate or Professor of Law No candidacy 2. Former members of the House and/or Senate - Mrs. Monica De Coninck - M. Johan De Roo - Mr. Luc Willems 2. Former members of the Chamber and/or Senate - Mrs Monica De Coninck - Mr Johan De Roo - Mr Luc Willems 3. Former agents - Mr. Eddy Boutmans, former board member of the Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism 3. Former Mandates - Mr Eddy Boutmans, former member of the Executive Board of the Centre for Equal Opportunities and Racism There are not enough French candidates for the category "former representatives" as well as Dutch-speaking candidates for the categories "magistrate or professor of law" and "former representatives". There are insufficient Dutch-language candidates for the categories "magistraat or professor of law" and "former managers" as well as insufficient French-language candidates for the category "assigned managers." In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 April 2021, I propose that you publish a new call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the term of French-speaking members for the category "former representatives" and for the term of Dutch-speaking members for the categories "magistrate or professor of law" and "former representatives" of the Federal Commission of Ethics. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 April 2021, I propose that you publish a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of the Dutch-speaking Member for the categories "magistraat or professor of law' and "ex-mandates' and for the mandates of French-speaking Member for the category "appointed mandates' of the Federal Deontological Commission. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u136	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 25 February 2021, a second call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 10 March 2021 for the presentation of the members of the Federal Commission for the Control and Evaluation of the Application of the Euthanasia Act. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 25 February 2021, a call for candidates for the nomination of the members of the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee on the application of the law on euthanasia was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 10 March 2021. The following applications were submitted: 1. Category "Doctor in medicine" - Mr. Jean-Paul Alexander (N) - Mr. Jacques Daele (F) - Mr. Thierry Danois (F) - Mr. Yves de Locht (F) - Ms. Nina Kjeldahl (F) - Mr Luc Proot (N) - Mr Philippe Rubijn (F) - Mr Kristof Thevisis (N) - Mr Patrik Vankrunkelsven (N) - Mr. Georges Van Snick (F) who is also "Professor (Emeritus) or lecturer at a Belgian university" - Mr. Patrik Vankrunkelsven (N), Lecturer in General Medicine at KULeuven 2. Category "Professor (Emeritus) or Law Lecturer or Lawyer" No application 3. Category "Middles dealing with the problem of patients with incurable disease" - Mr. Kristof Thevissen (N), Visiting Lecturer at the University of Hasselt, President of the Leif Limburg Asbl - Ms. Linda Vande Castele (N), asbl Leif's collaborator - Mr. Patrik Vankrunkelsven (N), lecturer in general medicine at KULeuven, member of Leif's board of directors. The following applications were submitted: 1. Category "healer' - Mr Jean-Paul Alexander (N) - Heer Jacques Daele (F) - Mr Thierry Danois (F) - Mr Yves de Locht (F) - Ms Nina Kjeldahl (F) - Mr Luc Proot (N) - Mr Philippe Rubijn (F) Mr Kristof Thevissen (N) Mr Patrik Vankrunkelsven (N) - Mr Georges Van Snick (F) who is also a professor or lecturer at a Belgian university - Mr Patrik Vankrunkelsven (N), lecturer in general medical practice at the KULeuven 2. Category "(emeritus) professor or lecturer in law or attorney" No candidacy 3. Category "circles in charge of the problems of incurably ill patients" - Mr Kristof Thevisen (N), visiting lecturer at Hasselt University, for Leif Limburg - Mrs Linda Vande Castele (N), staff member of the association of Leif - Mr Patrik Vankrunkelsven (N), lecturer in general medical practice at the KULeuven, member of the board of directors of Leif. The number of applications submitted is insufficient: - for the term of effective French-speaking member for the sub-category "teachers or professors of medicine" and for the category "environments dealing with the problem"; - for the term of a French-speaking alternate member, for the sub-category "students or professors in medicine" and for the categories "teachers or professors (meritus) in law or lawyer" and "problem-related environments"; - for term as a Dutch-speaking alternate member, for the category "teacher or professor (emeritus) in law or lawyer". Insufficient applications were submitted: - for the mandates of an effective French member, for the subcategory "teacher or professor of medicine" and for the category "circles responsible for the problem"; - for the mandates of French-speaking, deputy member, for the subcategory "doctor or professor of medicine" and for the categories "doctor or (emeritus) professor of law or attorney" and "circles responsible for the problem"; - for the mandates of Dutch-speaking, deputy member, for the category "doctor of (emeritus) professor of law or attorney." In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 April 2021, I propose that you publish a third call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for categories for which the number of applications submitted is insufficient. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 April 2021, I propose that a third call be made to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for those categories for which insufficient applications have been submitted. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u137	The government requested urgency pursuant to section 51 of the Regulations at the time of the tabling of the bill amending the Act of 12 April 1965 relating to the transport of gaseous and other products by pipeline, No. 1902/1. The Government asked for the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law amending the Law of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous products and other pipelines, No. 1902/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u138	Madam President, the draft law aims to introduce a number of amendments to the Law of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous products and other pipelines. Firstly, there is the transposition into Belgian law of Directive 2019/692 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 amending the Directive on common rules for the internal market in natural gas. Secondly, there are limited adaptations to the definition of natural gas in the Gas Act and, thirdly, we aim to bring the technology used back into line with the current social and economic reality and to clarify the applicable framework for the transport of biogas, gas from biomass, and other types of gas, as well as their mixing with natural gas on the basis of individual transport permits granted for the transport of natural gas. The reason for the urgency is that the European directive should have been transposed on 24 February last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u139	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u140	The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill amending the Judicial Code and regulating the compensation granted to judicial personnel for telework performed during the health crisis related to the coronavirus VOCID-19, No. 1922/1. The Government also requested an urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and regulating the telework remuneration of the judicial staff in the context of the health crisis caused by the Coronavirus COVID-19, No. 1922/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u141	Madam President, this draft law aims at three urgent amendments to the Code of Justice, which falls within the competence of the Court of Justice. Firstly, the possibility is provided that retired magistrates acting as deputy magistrates may continue to engage for up to 75 years when they so wish. So far, that's 73 years. This amendment is urgent because a magistrate will reach the age of 73 at the end of April this year and will therefore no longer be able to continue in a specific dossier. However, the prosecutor concerned is the last to have a perfect knowledge of the file. It is therefore almost impossible to ask another magistrate to re-examine the file. Secondly, a specific legal basis is introduced in Article 354 of the Code of Justice in order to allow the King to determine the procedures for the teleworking of the judicial staff. This amendment is urgent in view of the need to urgently regulate the necessary modalities for teleworking, specifically for the judicial staff with its own characteristics and dynamics. Thirdly, the time at which the notification takes place is determined through the Central Register for the Protection of Persons. This provision should enter into force on 1 June 2021 in order to ensure that it enters into force on the same date as the provisions governing the Central Register for the Protection of Persons. In addition, the payment of the telework premium during covid is made possible for the judicial staff. This amendment is urgent in view of the telework already carried out by the judicial staff forced to do so by COVID-19 and which has not yet been reimbursed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u142	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u143	The government also called for urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill on measures to manage the VOCID-19 pandemic and other urgent measures in the field of health care, No. 1929/1. The Government has also requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on measures to control the COOVID-19 pandemic and other urgent measures in the field of health care, No. 1929/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u144	Madam President, here too, three elements build on previous measures. The first part aims to ensure continuity in the supply of medicines and medical devices to our healthcare system. A second part provides for the possibility of paying a third advance to hospitals to allow them to cover their costs as a result of the covid pandemic. The third section provides a legal framework for the implementation of new testing possibilities and the reimbursement of a number of new technical performances. Finally, the draft deals with a number of punctual issues, such as defining the role of Sciensano, using information and technology resources, validating traineeships of candidate physicians and specialists during the crisis and accompanying measures for savings on the use of so-called combi medicines. The urgency, like everything else in life, is COVID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u145	Mr. De Roover?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u146	Madam President, we will support the urgency, but I would like to take this opportunity to urge the government to consult the Länder without delay, because I think this is necessary in this regard. It is under these conditions that we support urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u147	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u148	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I also propose that you take into account and refer to the committee responsible: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Christophe Lacroix, Mrs Leslie Leoni, MM. Patrick Prévot and Jean-Marc Delizée and Mrs Melissa Depraetere) to establish a universal banking service, to limit the cost of banking services and to ensure a correct and fair distribution of ticket distributors and payment terminals in the territory, No 1905/1; - the bill (MM. Steven Mathei, Ahmed Laaouej and Benoît Piedboeuf, Mrs Cécile Cornet and MM. Patrick Dewael, Joris Vandenbroucke, Dieter Vanbesien and Servais Verherstraeten) amending the Act of 15 May 2014 implementing the Competitiveness, Employment and Recovery Pact, as regards the single extension of the period of application of the aid zones, No 1942/1. I also propose that you consider and send to the committee responsible: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Christophe Lacroix, Mrs Leslie Leoni, Mr Patrick Prévot, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée and Mrs Melissa Depraetere) on the establishment of a universal banking service, the reduction of the cost of banking services and the guarantee of the correct and equitable distribution of ATMs and payment terminals throughout the country, No. 1905/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Steven Matheï, Mr Ahmed Laaouej and Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Ms Cécile Cornet and Mr Patrick Dewael, Mr Joris Vandenbroucke, Dieter Vanbesien and Mr Servais Verherstraeten) amending the Law of 15 May 2014 implementing the Pact for Competitiveness, Employment and Relance, concerning the one-off extension of the period of application of the assisted areas, No. 1942/1. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u149	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1911/1 (Mr Marc Goblet, Mrs Caroline Taquin, Laurence H angne and Nathalie Muylle, Mr Robby De Caluwé and Mrs Gitta Vanpeborgh) to amend the law of 9 December 2019 establishing a White Blouse Fund, in order to allocate the means of it from the year 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u150	This bill is well known to our assembly. The aim is to give a consolidated and structural legal basis to this budgetary fund, which has already been voted on earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u151	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u152	Mr Van Hees, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No 1927/1 introducing a separate taxation of temporary unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u153	Madam President, this proposal is aimed at solving a problem that concerns and concerns many workers. I have asked the Minister of Finance, including Mr Laaouej here in plenary, about this concern that the temporary allowances which have been granted to many workers in the context of the Corona crisis benefit from a professional discount of 15%. However, at the time when these workers receive their notice-extract of role, the tax rate will be much higher as a globalization will take place with other income. There are thousands of workers who will pay astronomical tax supplements. Even if the discount is lower, this decrease is not reflected in the final taxation. The aim is precisely to transpose it to the level of final taxation. The urgency is caused by the fact that we are approaching the date of receipt of the declarations. People get their tax slips and do their calculations. There is therefore an urgent need to get this bill through as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u154	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u155	Mr Verherstraeten, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal amending the law of 15 May 2014 implementing the Pact for Competitiveness, Employment and Relance, concerning the one-off extension of the period of application of the assisted areas, No. 1942/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u156	Madam President, this proposal deals with the one-off extension of the period of application of the assisted areas, which receive investment aid. Areas of assistance are regions that score less economically. Because of the covid crisis, the investment climate was mortgaged. With an extension, we want to give certainty to those who still wish to support in such regions. Since in some areas, where I am thinking of areas in Limburg and the Kempen, the period of aid expires on 30 April next, it is best to amend that regulation before the end of this month. Hence our demand for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u157	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u158	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee of 31 March 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Finance and Budget of 31 March 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 114/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Wouter Vermeersch; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Steven Mathei. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 114/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Wouter Vermeersch; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Steven Matheï. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u159	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation on the reconstruction reserve was approved by the Commission on 10 July 2020, when there was still a long way to go for a government, with a majority in exchange provided by the Flemish Interest. It was therefore approved thanks to the support of the Flemish Interest. This is an important recovery measure in the context of the corona crisis. For the Flemish Interest, it was not the author but the content and the intended result. That is why we expressly approved the reconstruction reserve measure. That is why we are once again considering the measure today. Prime Minister De Croo recently stated in De Tijd that there is a particular need for fiscal rest. Colleagues, he was right. Our companies now need a stable but above all a clear financial framework. The law on the reconstruction reserve is not sufficiently clear today. That proves the many questions that are asked about the law in Parliament. Many companies in the most affected sectors cannot simply meet the employment condition by dragging the corona crisis. They will also have to apply for temporary employment as a result of the departure of staff. That is why we have tabled a motion to the government to amend and improve the law on the reconstruction reserve. We ask the federal government to remove the employment condition for the financial years with closing dates in 2020 and 2021 and to replace the criterion based on the profit and loss account with the full-time equivalent criterion, so that employees and temporary workers can be combined. It is therefore a motion to improve existing legislation and to support the sectors most affected. We are therefore counting on the broad support for the motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u160	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u161	Yes 87 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u162	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters on 31 March 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 31 March 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 107/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 107/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately everyone comes into contact with loss sooner or later. The death of a child, a partner or a parent has a major emotional impact on the next of kin. After the first shock to cope with this loss, the next of kin are confronted almost immediately with the administrative and financial malle mill associated with that loss. Several bodies should be informed: the employer, the Pension Service, the notary, the sickness fund, banks, insurance companies and utilities. This brings with it additional paperwork, an administrative tangle, which unfortunately also confronts the next of kin in addition to grief. Digitisation is in many cases a progress, but the digital administration after a death, however, has a strikingly opposite effect. Accounts are blocked for several months until all administrative checks have taken place. The ID of the deceased must be issued almost immediately so that the survivors are no longer able to obtain tax or other documents. Also, the completion of the joint tax return cannot be done digitally, as the taxpayer has to sign digitally at the end of the procedure. Because of these administrative difficulties, the next of kin often no longer see the forest through the trees. Interest groups have therefore been asking for years to work on a central hotline where all information is offered bundled. We ask in this motion to provide specific support measures for this target group and to create a point of contact where all administrative activities for next of kin are centralised. I hope, therefore, that all of you will be able to help to simplify the administrative situation of the next of kin, because the current administrative difficulties are unacceptable and a welfare state is unworthy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u164	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u165	Yes 89 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u166	Vote on Amendment No 6 from Sophie Rohonyi cs on request 6. (1844/3) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Sophie Rohonyi cs at the request 6. (1844/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u167	Yes [[19]] Yes No. [[120]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Vanessa Matz on request 12. (1844/3) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Vanessa Matz at request 12. (1844/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u168	Yes 54 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Sophie Rohonyi cs inserting a request 13/1(n). (1844/3) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Sophie Rohonyi cs to insert a request 13/1(n). (1844/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u169	Yes 34 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 1 by Kathleen Bury on request 14. (1844/3) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Kathleen Bury at request 14. (1844/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u170	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 from Sophie Rohonyi cs on request 20. (1844/3) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Sophie Rohonyi cs at the request 20. (1844/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u171	Yes 33 Yes No. 106 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Vanessa Matz on request 22. (1844/3) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Vanessa Matz at the request 22. (1844/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u172	Yes [[35]] Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 4 from Vanessa Matz on request 24. (1844/3) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Vanessa Matz at request 24. (1844/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u173	Yes 57 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u174	Vote on Amendment No 5 from Vanessa Matz to insert a request 36(n). (1844/3) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Vanessa Matz to insert a request 36(n). (1844/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u175	Yes [[35]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u176	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u177	Madam President, our group will of course support this resolution wholeheartedly. At the same time, however, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that this resolution must not remain a dead letter. In fact, we saw a first harbinger of that yesterday, because the debate was postponed to Wednesday afternoon and there was a separate plenary sitting, with some women, instead of discussing it here today. In the meantime, the numerous committee meetings continued and the ministers responsible were not even present. Only the Secretary of State remained in post until the end. It is an overarching story, however, because a national action plan to combat intra-family violence is not just a matter of writing off. This concerns the preventive part, the approach and the follow-up. Significant resources should also be released where necessary and the law should be amended. In particular, strict timing must be maintained in order to achieve all this. I would also like to appeal for the amendment that has just been voted out because I think that is a very regrettable matter. I had hoped that the fight against intra-family violence would be more important than the cordon sanitair, quod non. I call once again on the Minister to provide a specialised room for intra-family violence in the family and youth courts, because that is very important. Minister Van Quickenborne himself was convinced of this and cited its creation himself at the committee meeting on 31 March. In fact, many Members have been able to see in the hearings that there are success stories in this area in Spain, where a great deal has been achieved. Intra-family violence can only be stopped if all authorities are aware of it and if criminal action can be taken at any level. Soft healers make stinking wounds, they say. It is therefore our duty finally to clean these festering wounds thoroughly. The victims will be grateful. I hope the Minister will take it into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u178	Madam President, of course, the fight against violence against women is a fight behind which we are aligning ourselves. It's an issue that everyone has to align with. Our honourable Member, Vanessa Matz, has made sure that he is very passionate about defending a series of amendments to advance the text. It did so in committee, and we had hoped, until a few minutes ago, that some additional amendments would be able to be supported in order to complete the exercise. These amendments have no ideological basis. They do not find their source in partisan questions. They are intended solely to serve the interests of women and, above all, to accompany them as best they can when they are victims of violence. We are talking about allowing the filing of complaints to be systematized in a hospital setting, so as not to force women to tell the problem twice, in the hospital first, at the police station then. Remember the debates that have taken place about femicides or about the violence that has had terrible consequences. We talked about the anti-approximation bracelet to ensure the effectiveness of the remoteness of the violent spouse. We are talking about a zero tolerance policy led by the public prosecutor's offices, as was done in Liège with great success. There was still talk about making it obligatory for police areas to have contact every quarter to ensure that there was no deterioration in the family environment where violence had been perpetrated. There is nothing partisan, ideological and yet it is amendments that have been rejected. Behind the scenes, I was told, since I had already been told the color, that a compromise had to be found. I don't understand between what and what a compromise had to be found. I don't understand what partisan interests a compromise had to be found. We are talking about a strong signal to combat all violence against women and to provide them with facilities. I had naively thought, the cdH had naively thought, Vanessa Matz had naively thought that there was no compromise to make about it. We therefore regret the rejection of our amendments and this will explain our abstention because we would have wanted a text with even more ambition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u179	Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u180	Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1844/4) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1844/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u181	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u182	Yes 107 Yes No. 34 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1859/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1859/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u183	Vote on Amendment No 16 by Frank Tusters cs on the inscription. (951/6) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Frank Troosters cs on the title. (951/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u184	Yes [[43]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u185	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u186	Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (951/7) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (951/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u187	Vote on Amendment No 25 by Maria Vindevoghel to insert a request 21(n). (971/5) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Maria Vindevoghel to insert a request 21(n). (971/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u188	Yes 33 Yes No. 104 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 26 by Maria Vindevoghel to insert a request 22(n). (971/5) Vote on amendment No 26 by Maria Vindevoghel to insert a request 22(n). (971/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u189	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u190	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u191	Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (971/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (971/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u192	Vote on Amendment No 28 by Ellen Samyn cs to dismiss recital G. (1624/7) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Ellen Samyn cs to delete Recital G. (1624/7) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u193	Yes [[19]] Yes No. 122 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u194	Vote on Amendment No 29 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert recital O (n). (1624/7) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert Recital O(n). (1624/7) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u195	Yes [[40]] Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u196	Vote on Amendment No 30 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert recital P(n). (1624/7) Vote on amendment No. 30 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert recital P(n). (1624/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u197	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 31 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert recital Q (n). (1624/7) Vote on amendment No. 31 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert recital Q(n). (1624/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u198	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 32 from Ellen Samyn cs to dismiss request 9. (1624/7) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Ellen Samyn cs to delete the request 9. (1624/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u199	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote at recital G. (1624/6) Vote on recital G. (1624/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u200	Yes 106 Yes No. [[35]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Recital G has therefore been adopted. Therefore, recital G is adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u201	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u202	Yes 143 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1624/8) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1624/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u203	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u204	Yes 101 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 42 Abstensions Total 143 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1520/7) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1520/7) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u205	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u206	Yes 82 Yes No. 58 Non Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1566/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1566/1 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u207	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u208	Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u209	Yes 94 Yes No. [[43]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1216/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1216/1 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-22-definitief-55-plenair-ip099x.u210	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 29 April 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, 29 April 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
