ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on behalf of our group, I wish to express our sincere condolences to the family and friends of the victim. Today, humility is in place because, as policy makers, as a community, we have not been able to prevent this tragedy. We have not been able to prevent young people from committing such serious crimes. We have not succeeded in stopping the spread of those images. We, all together, have also failed to provide the necessary help immediately, necessary for the victim. That's why we have to be humble today. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, we must be competitive in order to intensify the fight against sexual abuse and to make it clear that this must stop. It is very complex and there are still many challenges. I will mention some of them. Too many complaints are still being dismissed. That's because the unsub is sometimes unknown or because there's sometimes too little evidence. For that we had an interesting pilot project in Antwerp. You are aware of this, Minister of Justice. We have seen that this has produced very good results. It will be extended to the rest of the country. I support that and ask whether we cannot speed this up, as we see that the results were really good. Furthermore, there are still too few declarations. Victims' willingness to report should be increased. I think we have a good instrument for this. A few years ago we started with the care centres where victims can go for not only medical and psychological help, but also to report immediately to the police there. We see the results: 66% of the victims who offer themselves there also lodge an effective complaint. That is a very high figure compared to a few years ago. Let us bet on that, please. There's gonna be a care center in every county. Let us make sure that the resources are available so that these centres can start. Finally, I come to the new dimension of social media, the online phenomenon that presents us with enormous challenges. Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, we will need to use additional resources to combat social media. Is the government prepared to provide additional resources for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u3	Prime Minister, four gang rapes are reported every week. That amounts to about 200 gang rapes a year. Professor Liesbet Stevens, Deputy Director of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, states that this is not 10% but only 5% of those sexual assaults, which are reported rapes. So there's a huge tall dark number. My colleague, Gerolf Annemans, denounced this problem 17 years ago in 2003. The reports must be up, first and foremost by not culpabilising the victim. A proper criminal prosecution is also very important, so that the victims know that something is being done after their report. Social media must be addressed so that such images are immediately removed. It can't be that hard. Look at all the images of Black Piet that are blocked after one second. The minimum punishments must also be raised. There is no point in getting the maximum penalty only if the minimum penalty remains in place for a few months. Of course, and that needs to be discussed with your colleague Wouter Beke, there is the mandatory handout from 16 years old. Whoever's old enough to rape is old enough to appear before a court of law. Hence my next question: when will you take account of all the comments I have just made?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u4	Prime Minister, there was a shock in the country and by every politician after the terrible events of this week. That is right, because what happened to that 14-year-old girl is absolutely terrible. Ladies and gentlemen, why don't we feel that shock every day? How long will it take this time? If we take into account the gigantic dark number, hundreds of people are raped every day in our country and hundreds of lives destroyed. If that doesn't shock you enough, one youngster in four will be raped or abused for his twenty-third, ten years, five years, six or seven years, fourteen years, girls and boys. One in four. That's been dragging on for decades, centuries, every day. Right now, one of our children is being abused. Yet we are shocked and shocked every time. Then it disappears again under the waterline, where it can continue to flourish. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a true pandemic, one that receives much less attention than today's virus, but makes huge more victims. Only 4% of the rape victims complain. Half of these complaints are dismissed and of the 2% of the unimaginably brave victims who enter this society into court, one in a hundred see a perpetrator effectively sentenced to prison. That is the reality. The penalties must therefore be higher and we must avoid more. A young person who becomes the victim of rape and has the courage to seek help should not be on a waiting list. That's all right. Politics must get to work, and for once not only reactive, as a result of a matter that comes in the press. However, we are not there yet, unfortunately it is not that simple. Dear people here and at home, stop frightening and finally open your eyes. We don't protect our children or our youth. We do not raise them sufficiently in drawing up and respecting borders. We do not create enough openness, yet a victim needs openness in order to be able to speak. We often blame victims ourselves or we keep our mouths shut and bury the secret. Those who dare to stand up for themselves will be released by the system in the search for justice and help. So stay awake, all of you, at the upbringing of your sons and daughters and at the friendships around you, at what happens in your street, sports club or university. Name it if there is no respect for women in certain cultures, but do not get rid of it, because it is everywhere: in the church, in sports and mostly at home. So don't just be shocked today, for once, be shocked every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u5	Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, we are again, unfortunately, confronted with facts that you yourself have described as horrific: the suicide of a pre-adolescent victim of a collective rape filmed by her attackers and broadcast on social networks. However, since you took office, you have repeatedly argued that the fight against sexual assault would be one of your priorities, one of the government's priorities. You have decided to move forward without delay on the part of the reform of the Criminal Code relating to sexual assault. For the MR, the repression must be effective and the related sanctions tightened. In 2019, 201 gang rapes were reported, while 3,315 rapes were committed by only one reported perpetrator, knowing that there is a gap between the actual facts – those that appear through the complaints – and the black figure. It is estimated that 80 rapes are committed every day in our country, or about 30,000 per year. There are questions about the trivialization of these facts in the minds of their authors and, in a latent way, to a certain part of the population. Today, the digital component is added to this: publication on social networks, which triggers double victimization. We can only see today that justice has little means to stem digital harassment, little taken, the key being ultimately in the hands of those who manage social networks. Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, I am not going to ask you to re-invent the tools we have available today, you have done so in committee recently. You have announced on the air, Minister of Justice, that contacts with the various social networks could provide quick responses to the unconsented broadcast of sexual images or videos, or even prevent their dissemination. Can you give us an account of your contacts and your expectations? The MR strongly hopes that the fight against rape, sexual assault and harassment will be a top priority, your priority. That's our priority too. We wish to tell the perpetrators of these heinous acts that destroy the victims that they will be severely punished. We want to show the victims that we consider their pain and suffering. While we are well aware that the best prevention is education, we also believe that a strong signal at the criminal level is absolutely necessary. Can you already tell us whether and how the new Penal Code, in preparation, addresses this concern?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u6	As the mother of two daughters, I too am deeply touched by the terrible events in Ghent. Not only did a 14-year-old girl have to go through a terrible rape, but she relived that time and time again online. That's a nightmare for every parent and younger person. The sexual experience of our young people is happening more and more online. The approach to excesses on this can not only be laid down in laws. This requires a change of attitude, a call for discussion in educators, in education and also in society as a whole. After all, how can a young person find it okay to participate in a gang rape without throwing any sense of guilt online? No one can get to that, can they? That happens 200 times a year, at least as we know. We've approved heavier penalties for revenge porn and rape. There's a new penal code in the pipeline. Care centers after Sexual Violence were rolled out during the previous government, under Mrs Muylle. Mr Van Quickenborne also made the fight against this a priority, together with Mrs Schlitz. That's all important. In addition, social media companies must also assume their responsibilities. I can see that they have been able to admit all kinds of things for a long time. Through WhatsApp and TikTok movies are distributed without penalty. Already in 2017, I filed a resolution against cyber violence and against sexual violence online against young people and women. Mr Van Quickenborne already had a conversation with social media companies. What actions are proposed to prevent such images from getting online, and to quickly remove them when they are online, and to keep them as evidence? That requires a quick and thorough debate. We are eagerly looking forward to Mrs Schlitz's plan against sexual violence. It's gonna take more than that. Such trauma must be prevented today and in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u7	Prime Minister, what should a parent say to his or her daughter? How does he or she explain the horror of Gavere without ruining her youth? A lot of families have to answer that question today. How does one prevent his or her daughter from feeling safe? Today we all feel the pain of those involved. Unfortunately, more victims will follow, because that's what the numbers tell us, with nine rapes and four gang rapes a day. And that's another understatement, because a rapist strikes on average seven times before a report is filed. We've got to get the punishments up. Of course. You're working on it, Minister. Prevention needs to be improved. Agreed. Internet giants must be made aware of their responsibilities. Of course. The question remains: how does a child who has been raped feel, then safely to go to his parents, to seek help, to seek help safely. Too often victim blaming is done. Too easily the victim is referred to and too often the victim still points to himself, far too often. Too little is really being listened to. A few weeks ago, we almost unanimously adopted a resolution on intra-family violence. We have also argued in favour of health centres in more cities. Now it must be done, Prime Minister. Now we must move forward with care centres. They were supposed to be here yesterday. Prime Minister, what can you say to today's invisible victims? Can you guarantee them safe care will come close?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, these are horrific facts against a 14-year-old girl, and our group too would like to express its deepest sympathy to all concerned. Prime Minister, Minister, I am here today not only as a Member of Parliament, but also as Mom of three. And you're standing here not only as a minister, but also as a daddy. As a mother and a father, we share the indignation and disbelief of society over such serious and gruesome facts. It cannot be that the rule of law would not be able to protect the most vulnerable from such horrible facts. I am talking not only about young victims, but about all the victims, regardless of their age and gender. When the victims have to find out that there were still images of the horror and that the images are spread through all kinds of forums and are viewed by everyone, they are victims a second time and are pushed into a deep pit a second time. We can and must avoid them becoming victims a third time, by a justice who would abandon them. Therefore, a rigorous approach to sexual violence and the spread of such images must be a real priority. Minister, a lot of public prosecutors are working on this today and are committed to it. The government is also making it a top priority, including through the reform of sexual criminal law and the increase in penalties for such acts. However, it must not stop there. The dissemination of such photos and videos should also be addressed. By the way, Child Focus warned in its annual report in 2014 that sexting is very gruesome and has disastrous consequences. We recently adopted a law here in Parliament to tackle this phenomenon more strictly. But of course the Facebooks and Googles of this world must also want to join. Minister, when will you come to Parliament with the reform of sexual criminal law? What shall we do? What concrete steps will you take to tackle not only such facts but also the dissemination of their images more effectively? What are you meeting with Facebook and Google? What can they do to effectively block them, because they obviously have an important role to play in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u9	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, she was 14 years old. Can we imagine that? I'm a mother of two daughters myself, and I have to confess that I wasn't very good at it. Such facts are a horror; it is hallucinating that such a thing happens in 2021. We face a very serious problem: 200 gang rapes per week or 4 gang rapes per week. Let us be clear: it is not the fault of the victims, even if they think it is. Countless are the stories of victims knocking on the door of the police and being asked what they were doing outside at eight o'clock in the evening, or being advised that they might not have to wear a short skirt. This has to be dealt with, because, as the previous speakers have pointed out, many women no longer complain because of such incidents. There is another problem: half of the complaints are dismissed. Can you imagine a complaint being filed, but the unsub keeps walking around and nothing's being done about it? How's a woman supposed to feel? Such facts make women doubt whether society cares about them. What went through the head of the girl who didn't get help for her mental problems because there was a waiting list and was driven to suicide? She must have felt that she had no place in our society. Prime Minister, what will you do, first of all, about impunity? Secondly, what will you do to lower the thresholds for reporting? After all, that is a big problem. Thirdly, what financial resources do you intend to provide for the fight against sexual violence? It can't go on like this anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u10	Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, there are few words to express the fear, incomprehension and sadness that we feel in the face of the horror and suffering that this young girl who ended her life after having been raped by several boys and after seeing the images of this rape broadcast on social networks by her executioners. On behalf of my group, I would like to express our support for his family and friends. But how can teenagers, young men, commit such heinous crimes? How can they then bring her back, by broadcasting images of their dreadful crime? The investigation is under way. Like you, Minister, we want these executioners to be punished. Horrified by this crime, it is with immeasurable sadness that we find that this young teenager kept this atrocity for her, that she did not go to complain, that she experienced the shame of spreading these images, that she saw – in the words of a loved one – her world collapse and that she perceived in suicide the only solution. Mr Minister, it must be noted that our legal arsenal is insufficient. The relationship of trust between justice and victims must be restored. We know that you are preparing a bill to combat sexual violence. What's your status? Does this project include measures to combat online harassment? You know that the opinion committee has adopted recommendations on online violence. Are you going to start executing them? Does your project include provisions to restore trust between justice and victims? Finally, the Centres for the Care of Victims of Violence provide a response. Can you tell us how to improve their accessibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions I will answer together with the Minister of Justice. Each of your questions shows how personally we have all been affected by what has happened and by how often such a thing happens. Many of you have quoted figures and they are hallucinating. Yesterday I went to the wake that was organized in Ghent, especially as the father of two sons who are exactly in the same age category. Every day there are ten reports of rape, but the real number of people you have quoted is many times higher, at least five times higher. A woman on three is once confronted with sexual violence in her life. It is difficult to accept that this should be a reality for such a large part of society. At least one victim in four is underage. Like I said, they're hallucinating numbers. Before the pandemic, in a book, I had described this sexual violence against women as "pandemic", a pandemic that must be combated with as much vigour and energy as the current pandemic. In our free and progressive society, women are still far too often stereotyped and, too often, this is the source of the problem, the source of guilt, which is so often seen when such facts arise. It starts with words, but so often those words lead to horrible deeds. However, those words in my view are also the beginning of a solution. It's words we all need. It's a conversation we all have to have with our sons, with our children, with each other. It's a conversation we have to have the courage to enter into. Too often that conversation is not a place in our society. Too often victims hesitate to dare talk about it, even with those closest to them. Ladies and gentlemen, the saddest truth is that the most dangerous place for a woman is not so much a poorly lit parking lot, but, in the vast majority of cases, its own home. In two out of three cases, the unsub is someone who knows the victim, very often a partner or an ex-partner. It's something that happens so often close to home, but we can do something together, for example by being more alert and by moving faster to the police to intervene when we see something going wrong. The Minister of Justice will tell us what steps he has already taken in this area. The Sciensano survey shows that the incidence of spousal violence has increased: it has increased sixfold since 2018. The Government took the decision, at the beginning of its exercise, to add three new sexual violence centres. This year it is Antwerp, Charleroi and Louvain. Next year, four new centres will be opened. We have also worked hand in hand with the Communities to finance shelters for victims of violence. I am convinced that we will solve this pandemic together. This pandemic has been around a lot longer. Mrs van Peel, you said very well that many knew that there was a pandemic, but that we did not take the steps we should have taken as individuals. It is up to the policy to be the translation and amplifier of the fact that we are all willing together to take the steps to ensure that someone who is a victim and sees his or her world collapse, knows that there is a solution and that steps can be taken to save him or her.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament is often divided between parties, between majority and opposition, but today we are united: as a parent, as a father, as a mother. It affects all of us. It affects the girls and women who are all too often confronted with excessive violence. It affects all the parents in our country who worry that something would happen to their children if they leave the door. You, Prime Minister, pointed out in your speech when the government was installed in the European Parliament precisely where the problems lie: too high thresholds, too few convictions, too low penalties. On this mission, as Minister of Justice, I started working from day one after the government's installation, with all the victims of sexual violence in my mind. Ladies and gentlemen, everything starts with giving the victims the chance to tell their story and let them know they can go somewhere. The Care Centres after Sexual Violence are indeed a crucial link in a human approach. I was struck this week by the testimony of Lore Baeten, a victim of sexual violence himself, in The Journal. She said: "The little control you may still have is that it's your story, that you can report it at your own pace and that you can start talking to people about it at your own pace." Ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly the philosophy of these care centres. The results are encouraging, because 70% of the people report the crime there. With Mr Schlitz, we will indeed accelerate the expansion of these care centres. In the next 12 months four will be added in our country and then another three, so that we will eventually have a care center in every province in our country. The resources are provided for this. In addition to the report, we must also ensure more prosecution. Often it is word against word, the perpetrator's word against the victim's word. That is why good and sufficient evidence is crucial. This government has also taken steps forward in this respect. With the project code 37, a new research strategy, Antwerp's public prosecutor succeeds in doubling the number of convictions for rape in Antwerp. In addition to the classic semen-related spores, the parquet now also works with skin contact and saliva traces, so that perpetrators can be identified. That approach is working and we will accelerate it to all the parquets in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, our sexual criminal law is hopelessly outdated. It's based on a 19th-century law book. For a burglary one can get more severe penalties than for a rape. Since the first day we have worked, with experts and advisory bodies, to arrive at a modern new law on sexual criminal law. On 2 April the Council of Ministers decided to do so. This will make it possible to impose heavier penalties, because the maximum sentence for rape doubles. The penalty for the rape of a minor 14-year-old is increased to 28 years in prison. Rape gets a clear definition. The keyword will be permission. If there's no authorization, there's rape. This week we received the advice of the Council of State. There are no fundamental comments. If it depends on me, it would be a good thing for Parliament to approve this legislation before the summer recess. It is not just sexual violence that can have devastating effects on victims. The same applies to the dissemination of factual images. Recording such acts is punishable and any person who broadcasts such images must also be well aware that he or she is committing an offence. In 2020, this Parliament passed a law to punish more severely the dissemination of such images. We must ensure that such images do not circulate, because once disseminated, evil is done. Yesterday, it's true, we talked with the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, as well as with Facebook and Google. Together, we need to be able to react quickly and use technology to prevent these images from spreading. What should be done? A single point of contact, accessible day and night, must be provided for immediate intervention. Together, we can make a difference to the victim. Indeed, this fight also concerns cyberharassment. It is also a form of crime that can have disastrous consequences for victims. Mrs Zanchetta, with regard to the resolution, we have made the prosecutor's office aware of the authors' removal measures and the police are making visits to known victims. All other elements will be integrated into the national action plan to combat gender-based violence. Colleagues, I stand here as Minister of Justice and I say to you very humbly: we must acknowledge that we have left victims in the cold too often in the past. With this plan, we want to better arm our country in the fight against sexual violence. With these actions, we want to do everything we can to better protect all victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u13	Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, thank you for the answers and the very clear commitment this government is taking in the fight against sexual abuse. I do hear good initiatives. We can count on our full support for the modernisation of our Criminal Code. Putting the online giants in charge is very important. The reference to code 37 speeded up in the other arrondissements is also a very good thing. This is also true of the initiatives relating to care centres. Colleagues, reporting is indeed a problem and we have to ask ourselves why. Could it not be due to a lack of trust in victims, as well as a lack of trust in government, police and justice? We're gonna have to boost that. Care centres can play an important role in this. The results are here. For many people there is a life after that, a difficult life, a difficult struggle. They have to carry that trauma with them. For many, it's survival, too. People are looking at politics. It's our goddamn duty to make that a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u14	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your fine words and your good plans. We agree on the rapid roll-out of care centres. That's the most important thing. I am particularly in favour of the publication of care centres. Minister, you are right that there are good results, but I still notice daily that people do not know that these care centres are there. People have to look too much. Teenagers and women must be able to tell their stories safely. Only then will these stricter penalties be useful. I am counting on this government to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u15	Prime Minister, Minister, I am very sorry to hear how you have been hit, how all the parties here in this hemisphere have been affected by matters that these same parties have been doing nothing about for decades. Yesterday, together with Minister Beke, you had endless discussions about something that is still not there. We've been asking this for 20 years. You are now engaged, first it was before Easter, now it is before the summer recess, I heard it before with your predecessor, but nothing has yet happened. You're saying that the perpetrators of a break-in are in jail longer than that. I'll give you another example, and it's something you have a warm heart for. People who dare to unroll a banner will be tried and convicted in less than a year. But a rapist can go on for years and the victims know nothing. It's up to us to make sure that girls can get out of here carefree and criminal boys go to jail for such facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u16	Prime Minister, Minister, I would first like to mention something important. I've heard you and many colleagues talk about women all the time. Don't do that anymore. Much of this discussion is about taboos and their consequences. Don't talk about women alone anymore. 13 percent of men are also raped in their lives. You're making the taboo for these men even bigger by just talking about women. So stop it. Often it's young boys who will never tell. But not taking this into account. Initiatives have indeed been taken, and others are coming. I welcome them and will support them. I hope, however, that you realise that it will not be enough and I hope that you will live up to what you have promised me and my colleagues a few times. I have been working on this for years with many colleagues, across party boundaries, with members of the opposition and the majority. After all, I believe that we should all be on the same page here. I do not think that such a theme is politically acceptable. But every now and then I feel like I'm gonna have to maneuver. May I say how unbelievably sorry I am, because together, ladies and gentlemen, we could perhaps rise above the slogans and really make a difference. I hope for that commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u17	Madam Chair, I thank the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice for their responses. I'd like to brief them on Manon's story. She is a young woman who is harassed on social networks and who filed a complaint in April 2020. The fact that the case progresses very slowly and that it is not possible to identify quickly enough the perpetrators of this harassment – who use the filthiest and most ruthless insults – has generated a movement of sympathy around it. She did this because, after filing a complaint, the authors were not yet identified. And they delight and say to him, "For sixteen months, nothing has stopped us from harassing you. We continued. It's not you who's in charge of the situation, it's us. And I know the procedures." Mr. Minister of Justice, it is essential to ensure that these procedures are dealt with quickly and that the perpetrators of this type of harassment are identified quickly, despite all the technical difficulties involved. We will still have cases, and more and more, of young children or pre-teens, girls or boys. All we can say at that time is, "It's sad, we couldn't do anything." I don't want to live in this world. We do not want to live in this world, we must all work together to find the solution to speed up and objectiveize the procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u18	Madam President, Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. It is clear that the fight against sexual violence is a priority for the current government. When, as you pointed out, it is about the threshold of declaration, about prosecution and about the too low penalties, I feel very strongly that the commitment that has been made here today has already been taken and will still be taken with the new Criminal Code in the future. Prime Minister, I have also heard you say that we must enter into the discussion. That is very important, it is a point that is missing to this day. Children feel powerless: Up to 38% of children claim that they have already experienced something negative online, which is huge. Only a quarter dare to speak of it. That is something we must avoid. Do you know how many actions were included in the previous plan on sexual violence and cyber violence? There wasn't one action in it. This is the great challenge we must face. Yesterday, Secretary of State Schlitz indicated in the committee that she would do something about it. That is a very important challenge. Such nightmares must be avoided both for parents and for young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u19	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. It is good that you will be coming to Parliament very soon with the new sexual criminal law and with heavier penalties for sexual violence. You will be able to count on a very broad majority. As you have just said and also called on all the victims this week, it is important that they lodge a complaint and talk about it. They shouldn't be ashamed. Talk to the kids; talk to the area. There are also specialized care centres, which do good work. They will be expanded. There are enough people in the Justice and Police Department who will take them seriously, who will protect them and ensure that perpetrators are dealt with and tracked down. Finally, we must be even more aware, as Mrs Van Hoof said, that an iPhone can be fun, pleasant and convenient, but also very dangerous. Recording such images sometimes has even more serious consequences than the horrible facts in themselves. In 2014, my colleague Nele Lijnen already called for more sensitisation in the context of sexting, in the context of spreading sexually tinted messages and videos. We must continue to make this appeal, to young people, to teachers, to educators. It is a particularly worrying phenomenon, but it is a good thing that this government is making it a top priority and receiving the full support of Parliament to continue its efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u20	Madam President, Minister Van Quickenborne, you have said here for the first time, as far as I know, that the government has done too little in the past and that you have a great responsibility in relation to that problem. I'm glad you acknowledge that you haven't done enough for years. I hope, however, that it is not just words or that there are not only plans, but that there will also be effective actions that address the problems. I would like to say a few words about the dismissal, because it is a major problem. You say you're going to increase the penalties, but you have to do something about that dismissal, and it's urgent to do something about it. It's about only 4 out of 100, that's huge, so we have to work on that dismissal. The day before yesterday I heard Liesbet Stevens from the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men in The Appointment. She once again called for more resources. If things are to be dealt with, resources must be provided. They need resources and people to be able to work on internet problems. Otherwise, it won't be solved. Finally, this, enough is enough. Not a mas. Not one more. Not one more. [[.]] We will continue to fight for women's rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u21	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your response and determination. Strong measures must be taken to combat sexual violence, violence against women, online harassment and the dissemination of images online. There can be no impunity when it comes to sexual violence or violence against women. Victims must also be able to be heard and accompanied by professionals. The judiciary, as well as all actors in the judiciary and the police, must be made aware of the issue, as well as trained. Sexual violence centres need to be even more accessible. Strong signals must be sent. There is a need to build the capacity to effectively combat violence. As you pointed out, minister, the victims must no longer be left alone in the face of their fate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u22	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's scheduled Codeco is apparently dedicated to travel, which is worrying the horeca sector about the reopening of this sector inside. He's still worried and angry. He is concerned because many areas of shadow and questions still surround the recovery protocol today. And he is angry because, if the health situation improves from day to day – everyone rejoices – the conditions for reopening should logically change too. The demands of the federations are, I believe, legitimate and simple. First of all, they would like to see an increase in internal hours. We've already talked about it, but admit that it's becoming a nonsense to keep a difference in closing between the inside at 10:00 p.m. and the outside at 11:30 p.m. On the other hand, they are asking – and this seems essential to me – for the reopening protocol to be communicated to them as soon as possible. Then, with regard to travel and free PCR testing, at the beginning of the week, your Minister of Health had expressed support for a cheap, if not free, PCR test for people who are not vaccinated but would like to travel. I think that, too, there is an urgent need to move forward. It's early June and the holidays are approaching. Prime Minister, my questions are very simple. When will the Horeca recovery protocol be communicated to industry professionals? Will the requests for easing be analysed at the time of tomorrow's Codeco? Is free PCR testing for travel considered? If not, could a substantial reduction in the price be envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u23	Madam President, Prime Minister, young people have been locked up for months. Their friends, their activities, the dating, everything they had to miss. A piece of their youth they have given up and that in fact when they had no prospect of any perspective. The least we should be able to give them is a carefree summer vacation without stress. The CD&V is a family party and therefore likes to stand up for those 65,000 Flemish children and young people, of whom 26,000 are from Kazou alone, who are going to camp abroad, but also for the children and young people who go with their parents or grandparents with their own car to a holiday home abroad. We urge you to minimise the stress for everyone, for parents, for counselors and especially for children and young people. That is what you must do by clarifying and restricting the mandatory tests. Keep it simple. Please put it in a clear sentence tomorrow. Our position is clear. Children under the age of 12 who travel with their parents in family should not be tested when they come back to our country. Let's have a little faith in the responsibility of the parents. They too are concerned about the health and safety of their families. As far as we are concerned, children and young people under the age of 18 who go to camp in a group bubble should not be tested either. Last year, youth leaders proved that they can organise camps in a safe way. Also be aware that a large proportion of young people will not come with two rapid tests or tests. They go on a trip, they guide camps abroad, they do a vacation job or they go to Pukkelpop. They have not chosen not to be vaccinated. Will it be the consultation committee for young families and young people tomorrow, or will we burden them with more headaches at the end?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u24	Prime Minister, I would like to address a number of issues with you concerning this Friday's Codeco. First, sectors are still waiting for clarification. I am thinking in particular of the horeca on timetables and plexiglas but also of culture. We hear a lot from the government about the events in Tomorrowland or Spa-Francorchamps, but culture is not just that. A whole range of other operators are waiting for clarifications, while they have put in place very elaborate health protocols. I would also like to ask you about the family bubbles. They will always be limited to four from 9 June for the inside. It's very restrictive. Is that still justifiable? The same goes for wearing the mask outside, I insist. It is no longer justified except in particularly frequented places. Finally, I would like to turn to the important point of PCR tests, rapid antigenic tests and self-tests. It has been weeks since I pleaded for free testing for those who have not yet had the opportunity to get vaccinated. Ladies and gentlemen, I have even had you vote for an amendment in this direction which has been swept away with a back of your hand. Prime Minister, I now hear that you would propose only one free test this summer for, you say, budgetary reasons. Let me tell you that you are doing a very bad calculation! Indeed, it is unfair especially for young people under the age of 35. They won't be vaccinated this summer. But they're the ones who pay the heaviest price. Isolated and confined for one year to protect the oldest and most fragile, they will be vaccinated at the end to protect the most fragile. Young people are really the sacrifice of this crisis. Let me also tell you how much this can weigh for a family of four to five people. That's 200 to 250 euros extra for the holidays. And then, it's a bad calculation of public health because testing isn't enough, that's what we've been doing for a year. This costs much more in terms of health, economy and restriction of freedoms. I therefore reiterate this request: free of charge tests for all those who have not had the opportunity to be vaccinated (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Let me start with the Consultative Committee and, above all, with what would start next week on 9 June. At a previous Consultation Committee we set a number of thresholds. The intensive care should be covered by 500 occupied beds. In the area of vaccination, more than 80% of vulnerable people should have received a first dose. The good news is that we have achieved these thresholds well. Today, 87% of vulnerable people over 65 or people with an underlying condition have already received a first vaccine. Today 364 beds are occupied on the intensive care. It is important that these figures continue to decline. If we can meet these thresholds, we can go further in a second phase of our summer plan. This means, as far as June 9th is concerned, that the Horeca will be able to open its inner rooms, that we will be able to accommodate four people at home, that we will be able to reopen a whole part of the economic activities that had been closed for a long time. Persons who have been on 100% telework for months will be able to start returning to their workplace. What is important is that we continue to accelerate our vaccination rate. This week, more than 900,000 doses will be delivered. In June, a total of 4 million doses were received. This should help us to ensure that, at this rate, at the end of the month, 70% of the adult population received a first dose. Last Sunday, moreover, we reached the threshold of 50% of the adult population, with which we are at the top of Europe. We must also do everything we can to maintain that position. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank everyone in our vaccination centres once again, specifically those volunteers who ensure that these vaccination centres are so successful. I will not anticipate the decisions that could be taken by the Conciliation Committee tomorrow, but at least the focus will be on travel. Important work has been done at European level to harmonise the rules as much as possible and to have a digital tool to try to simplify travel in the European area as much as possible. A QR code will be generated. This code will contain information on either the number and date of vaccines received, the date and result of a test, or the presence of antibodies. That means that whoever travels will have to abide by the rules of the country he goes to. Those rules will be harmonised as far as possible. When that person comes back, of course it is the rules of our country that apply. In other words, the rules that we have to lay down will apply to Belgian residents who come back and to people who come from abroad to visit our country. We see that more and more countries in Europe are opting for full vaccination for their definition of 'vaccination', which means that a number of types of vaccines must have been given two doses. But let it also be clear: for those who are not fully vaccinated, there is an alternative. That alternative is the use of a recent PCR test. The position of our country has always been that fully vaccinated and must have the exact same value for a PCR test. Similarly, it is important, if you come back from a place that is not a red zone but an orange zone or a green zone, that no conditions are fixed. All this to tell you that we are making every effort to make travel as flexible as possible. For those who have not had the opportunity to be vaccinated at the level that would be required, the government is considering the provision of two free tests. It is clear that our country has taken a lot of steps in recent months to ensure maximum security for our people. We are among the countries that have been able to push out the third wave for the longest time. If we compare its impact with other countries, we have managed together to manage it very well. We all know that there has been an impact on our healthcare sector, which has made a great deal of efforts. The next steps are in the direction of a normalized life as much as possible, at a time when the virus is still circulating. I am convinced that together we will succeed in organising these next steps in a good way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u26	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. You answered on the PCR test. In France, the test costs nothing, perhaps European harmonisation would be useful. I'm a little disappointed, I didn't get a real answer about the Horeca. It's June 3rd and it's reopening inside on June 9. I am thinking of all those operators who still do not know exactly what protocol they are going to eat, what investments they should be able to make and what investments they should give up. I believe that this blurry is an objective problem that needs to be addressed tomorrow or as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u27	Prime Minister, we have made a great deal of promises in Parliament to young people and children. These young people and children have set aside a great deal for the elderly and the vulnerable in our society. They've done this with great pleasure. Let us therefore ensure that tomorrow they do not suffer from the fact that there were not enough vaccines delivered to our country. The three youth ministers of the Länder have written a letter proposing not to test min-12-year-olds on group holidays and minus-18-year-olds in the bubble. Take this letter and discuss it at the table. Give confidence to our young people. Give them that freedom. They deserve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u28	Prime Minister, you have not provided any clarification about the Horeca, culture, family bubbles, or the wearing of the mask outside. I hope that the Codeco, which is due to meet tomorrow, will not wait for the last minute or that more progress has been made in the process to provide clarifications that are necessary and justified. You highlighted the numbers of the vaccination. Let me remind you that many will not be vaccinated on July 1 or will not have received both doses of vaccine. Threats still exist, in particular with the variants. But today, with the weapons available, namely vaccination on the one hand, but also rapid and systematic testing on the other, we are in a position to reconcile an increase in activity, an increase in relaxation and health security. Minister, the free of charge of two tests for all those who have not yet had access to full vaccination is not enough. We must therefore move forward in this direction. This will benefit public health and it will be fairer for all those who have not yet been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u29	Prime Minister, the debate on the neutrality of the government started last week. The public transport company STIB was then condemned by a Brussels court for discrimination on grounds of religion and sex. A woman wasn't hired because she was wearing a headscarf. In the case of a public service, it is rightly forbidden to bear a sign of political belief or belief. Now the debate is also invading the federal government because your Secretary of State for Ecolo, Mrs Schlitz, appoints someone with a headscarf as a government commissioner, at the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. This decision raises many questions, not only in society and politics but also within your own coalition. The President of the French-speaking liberals, who apparently are keen to hang out with your party chairman these days, said clearly and loudly that the neutrality of the state should not be called into question in order to meet the communitarism of parties who want to charm voters. Yesterday, a Member of Parliament from your majority stated that he withdrew his fundamental support for the coalition partner Ecolo. Ecolo then found that the majority now counted less than one member of the MR. Prime Minister, I would have liked to have heard your position on the wearing of philosophical signs by a government commissioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u30	Mrs Safai, your question concerns a decision that was taken a month ago. In the meantime, the relevant government Commissioner has already taken part in a meeting. Let me be very clear, we met today with the core. We have discussed this at the heart of the matter today, and the decision to designate this government commissioner is not called into question by any party within the government. As far as the position of the government is concerned, there is no doubt about it. Moreover, it is federal legislation that officials of the government who are in direct contact with the citizen must demonstrate absolute neutrality. There is no room for religious or political symbols at the counters, at Justice and the police. The government commissioner that the discussion is about is a woman who graduated as an engineer at a university in our country, with great academic distinction. It is a woman who has built up an experience of many years in the energy sector. As it says in some newspapers: c'est une personne qui a un CV enbéton. From the government's point of view, this person has the knowledge and experience to perform that function properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u31	Prime Minister, it is clear to the N-VA that expressions of personal convictions of any kind may be restricted or even prohibited in a context where reasonableness and proportionality exist. A government commissioner is indeed not a mandator, but is appointed by the government. It therefore represents the whole government and, in fact, the whole society. It should therefore respect the principle of neutrality. A headscarf in this function is therefore not possible. Just like, as far as I'm concerned, an N-VA-T shirt isn't allowed. In addition, it seems as if your government has a problem with the core principles of our democracy. Last week we stood here to defend freedom of expression against attempts by your majority to restrict them. Today we are here to preserve the neutrality of our public services. What will it be next week?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u32	Madam President, Minister, for the past few months, the world of work has been mobilized on the question of whether wages will be able to rise above 0.4%, which is the carcan that does not even allow for an increase in wages of more than two or three coffee shops in our country. Colleagues, Minister, next Thursday will be the day of truth. On June 10, 2021, the government will decide, in a definitive manner, whether or not wages will remain blocked at 0.4 per cent. So the bullet is in your side. The ball continues to roll. Trade union organisations refuse this agreement by 0.4% and call for actions. The FGTB and CSC trade union centres are mobilizing and expect a positive response from the government on June 10, 2021. Your president, Paul Magnette, said in the press and made it clear to anyone who wanted it that, if there was not an agreement of the Group of 10, there was no question for his party to sign this royal decree. In fact, signing this royal decree amounts to putting a full lock and, given that there is no agreement on the minimum wage, on pre-pensions, on the 0.4% margin, he said it was out of the question that your party, as minister, sign this royal decree. Minister, my question is simple. There's a week left. Can you tell us today that you will follow this commitment given by your party president not to sign this royal decree if there is no agreement and that you will deliver on Thursday, June 10, 2021, at 10 a.m.? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u33	Minister, the trade unions want to take back to the bridge pension or SWT, as it is called today, as a lubricant for an interprofessional agreement. This is a particularly bad idea for the very simple reason that the SWT is one of the main causes of the fact that the level of activity in our country is only 70%, whereas in many other European countries it is 75% to 85%. The bridge pension dates back to the 1970s, when there was no cut-off in the labour market at all. That is a bit different today, because even in corona time many vacancies are not filled. In addition, we also see that in many other European countries, a higher level of efficacy in the elderly goes hand in hand with a high level of effectiveness in young people. That also makes sense, because work does, of course, create work. If there are more people at work, there are more shoulders that carry social security and the burden on labour can be reduced, which makes it more interesting to invest more in our country, especially in job creation. Then it is particularly incomprehensible that the trade unions, who say time and again that they consider social security so important, are doing everything they can to undermine social security and its affordability. Moreover, it is also not serious to dump older, skilled workers with tons of relevant experience in the SWT today to complain tomorrow that many bottleneck jobs will not be filled. The question then, with next week's deadline ahead, is what you will do, what this government will do. Aren't you going to join us on the unbearable SWT path of the trade unions? Or is it the case that your coalition agreement, in which you say in so many words that you opt for an activity rate of 80%, is no more than a piece of paper?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I will not call them "new", since they are recurrent – whether they are put almost every week in plenary or in committee. I will not recall what I have already indicated in this rostrum, by answering your questions or those of your colleagues in committee. As you know, the social partners are negotiating on the basis of a proposal for mediation submitted by the government, which includes four priority areas, although this list is not exhaustive: the catch-up of the minimum wage, the deadline for harmonizing supplementary pensions for workers and employees, the question of overtime in the period 2021-2022 and, finally, that of career ends. For me, as for many of us, the issue of the minimum wage is essential. We know that it has not increased since 2008, unlike the median wage. Besides, since then, he's just been picking up. Very concretely, this means that the workers who perceive it have become impoverished in relation to the rest of the world of work. In my opinion, as with many of us, it is unbearable. It is important that these workers can earn a decent and decent living and not have to choose between paying rent, financing health care, paying for school or filling the fridge. In a rich and prosperous country, it is unacceptable that workers – and it is often workers – who are paid at the minimum wage cannot earn decent and dignified lives. The issue of the end of the career is, of course, also very important. That is why I chose that theme for this year's annual employment conference. It is indeed essential for older workers to remain at work. This can only be done if they are able to work in good conditions. However, we must also take into account the gravity of the job and the length of the career. We need to ensure an adapted end to the career, for example for those who are ill or who have worked for many years. Unfortunately, the crisis we are facing today can also lead to bankruptcy, restructuring and mass redundancies. For all these reasons, it is important for the social partners to reach agreement on the end of their careers. As I said, the social partners have set up a series of meetings. Right now, they're negotiating. They will do it again tomorrow and early next week. I have the weakness to think that the four priority issues on the agenda should lead to a balanced agreement between employers and trade unions. I am confident that this agreement will be concluded in the interests of both workers and companies. When they give us their agreement – I say "when", because I believe in the possibility of an agreement, and in their ability to succeed – we will be able to implement all of these negotiating points and the fullness of this agreement. We will, as this is the government's commitment. This commitment includes, in particular, putting in place complementary means to support efforts to raise the minimum wage. This will also be the case on other issues, since the government's proposal for mediation is a whole, and all of the points need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u35	Minister, you simply do not answer the question. I asked what would happen on Thursday 10 June if no agreement was reached. If employers today insist that workers have to continue to work after 58 years and when they ask for more overtime, up to 220 overtime, then it is clear that there is no agreement. Your party has committed itself not to sign the Royal Decree if there is no agreement on Thursday 10 June. So I'm gonna ask you again. There's another week. We'll mobilise the employees. Will you stick to your position and not sign the Royal Decree? Will wages be increased by more than 0.4%? I say to all workers, to the trade union organizations: there is another week, but I feel that the government can take another step backwards. Do not let the people divide, as the MR tries to do with its secondary questions to polarize society more and more. The left must come with its own themes, that's what will create the buffalo in the government. People want more wages and not Georges-Louis Boucher's schemes to divide and divert people's attention from the real problems of our society: purchasing power, pensions and rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u36	Mr Minister, I have been asking again and again since your arrival how you intend to help more people get to work. To this day, that remains the government's best kept secret. After all, it is still waiting for the first activation of the De Croo government. I am not just saying that; the Flemish Government has also expressed all its concerns to you. Minister Crevits even wrote you a letter about this. However, until today you stick sticks in the wheels. After all, the slope of the SWT, on which the Flemish government is particularly concerned, is not closed today. Of course, we must respond to the 50-plussers who are afraid of losing their jobs. Above all, however, we must give them hope. We must make it clear to them that we still believe in them. We must give them hope. What are you doing, however? You're not closing the track. The only message they can expect is a very harsh message. You close the track, which makes it clear to 58-year-old employees and employees that they are no longer needed and that they should just stand on the sidelines, not. How hard can a society be?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u37	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are gradually emerging from the worst crisis our country has experienced in its recent history. Considerable budgetary resources have been devoted to the fight against this pandemic, rightly, not only to strengthen our health care, of course, but also to protect our citizens, regardless of their status or social condition. Since the beginning of the pandemic, more than €23 billion in budget has been deployed by the federal government, mainly in the area of social security. It's never before seen! At the same time, a multinational company such as Amazon generated €44 billion in revenue in 2020 in Europe, and paid zero euros in taxes, in full legality. Unfortunately, this is not the only one, and of course it is totally unacceptable! But it is above all unfair, unfair to all our fellow citizens who pay their taxes properly and finance the common good, as is the case with most of our independents and SMEs, who play the game, who pay and who contribute. Tax justice must be the major challenge in the years to come in terms of fighting and political priority. In this respect, a European decision that I welcome was taken this week. A decision which the European Greens have long called for, namely the establishment of a country-by-country reporting system. This means that multinationals will have to declare, in full transparency, by country and at European level, their income and profits. One important aspect of this decision concerns the list of tax havens. This list can be a totally welcome tool for tax transparency, which will obviously make it possible to make a greater contribution to these multinationals. Minister, I have two questions. Firstly, what will be the impact of this decision on Belgian legislation, i.e. the transposition of this decision? Secondly, the mechanism must be evaluated and reviewed in four years' time. We clearly want Belgium to be ambitious in this respect and the system to apply throughout the OECD. What do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u38	Madam President, honourable Member, I thank you for your question on an important subject, which has long been a sea snake at the level of the European institutions. Much has been said about it; it has rarely been seen and, in any case, it has been insufficiently implemented. What happened this week is an important step, certainly insufficient, but one that goes in the right direction. The question of the right contribution of multinationals to the recovery effort, whether economic or social, is an essential element and must continue to be at the top of the political agenda in Belgium, at the level of the European institutions, but also, as you mentioned at the end of your question, at the level of the OECD. I am delighted to be part of a government that has put this theme at the top of the pile of priority political issues that it is proactively defending within the various institutions. We were lucky enough to have a particularly proactive Portuguese presidency. I would also like to welcome the work that has been done to complete this dossier and to ensure that agreement on this issue can be reached this Tuesday with the European Parliament. You recalled the challenges of transparency, the obligation for multinationals active in Europe to make a country-by-country report and to publish, every year, the profits made, the taxes paid and the human resources employed. This is a historic step forward in the fight against fraud and tax evasion by multinationals. You have cited a particularly glaring example. I would also like to commend the work done by my counterpart, the Portuguese Minister for Economic Affairs Pedro Siza Vieira, who has ensured that this issue can move forward towards this compromise. I also welcome the work of our colleague, Hugues Bayet, who, before leaving the European Parliament to join this House, fought to push this issue forward. That is what I am talking about. My intention, in consultation with my colleague, Finance Minister Vincent Van Peteghem, is to ensure that this directive can be transposed into Belgian law as soon as possible, and also to ensure that Belgium is at the cutting edge of the assessment in four years' time and that it advocates extending this reporting obligation to the OECD as a whole. I know that we can count on you and your group to carry out these essential demands, which, I repeat, are a real battle in the various recovery processes, whether they are investment plans, economic recovery or social recovery.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u39	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I share your enthusiasm for what is certainly a first step, but indeed important and which we welcome unambiguously. As you said, the debates continue and that is also crucial. We call for the Belgian federal government to continue to show ambition in international discussions. Now that there is transparency on the income of multinationals, we must now be able to ask them for a fair and greater contribution. The minimum rate of multinationals is the next debate in the OECD. There are several proposals on the table. As ecologists, we demand the most ambitious position, that is, the 21% which, according to a recent study, could bring in several billions of euros to the state budget. This is a fundamental discussion that takes place in the very short term, as the OECD decision is expected by mid-July. We will continue to support you and the Minister of Finance in this discussion and to bring as much ambition as possible to the level of the Belgian government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u40	Madam President, Minister, vaccination centres are in full swing. The staff of many municipalities, many volunteers and others are working long hours, but not everyone can be vaccinated at the same time. There are also people who want to be vaccinated later or not. We were able to read this week that the European corona passport could contain three things: proof of immunity, a negative PCR test or evidence of vaccination. These are three equal opportunities, but of course everyone knows that vaccination is needed to achieve group immunity more quickly. That also translates into the government's choice. Vaccination has not been made compulsory, but has been encouraged by a number of awareness-raising programmes. Yesterday we heard that the Red Devils also made a decision on vaccination, but I will come back to that later. We should not look at people who are not vaccinated or who are subsequently vaccinated. They should not be punished either, because that can only have the opposite effect. You announced this week that people who are not going to be vaccinated will have to pay the full pot for a PCR test. What kind of signal do you intend to send? We think it is important that we are sensitized in a positive way and that we create an atmosphere in which vaccination is evident, without having to give up our free choice. I have three questions for you, Minister. What additional initiatives will you take, together with the Regions, to motivate people to be vaccinated in such a way as to increase the vaccination rate? Will the PCR test be available at the same price for everyone, regardless of vaccination status? Are there still certain groups, such as other top athletes, who have asked to be vaccinated as a priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u41	Colleagues, the vaccination campaign is running like a train, but we must indeed ensure that we reach everyone, all the population groups, all the neighbourhoods, everywhere. This is above all a social challenge, because it is often about people living in difficult conditions, in neighbourhoods with more poverty, with more social problems, and where people are less easily reached to vaccinate them. A lot is already happening. In the Molenbeek region of Brussels, for example, people are approached in markets to be vaccinated, which is excellent. In Wallonia, people who have not been vaccinated are invited again. In Antwerp, neighbourhood workers go around the neighborhoods to motivate people to be vaccinated. The task force is now preparing an initiative in which the general practitioners all over Belgium appeal to their patients who have not yet been vaccinated. Apothecaries are also being used. That is indeed what we must do. Moreover, tomorrow, I hope, in the Consultative Committee, we will set out a mandate for the Task Force Vaccination to identify very precisely which sections of the population we have not yet achieved enough, what efforts we still have to make to reach everyone. I hope that we will then see which teeth or teeth still have to be stitched. I'm surprised at what you're saying about the PCR testing. I advocate in the government that we make one or even two PCR tests available free of charge for those who have not yet had the opportunity to be vaccinated. But I assume a concept of solidarity: vaccination is an act of solidarity, you protect yourself and your neighbor. But it is also a question of responsibility, including budgetary responsibility. Applying responsibility in this case means that people who have had the chance to be vaccinated should not say that there is also a free PCR test. Those people had a chance to get vaccinated. I think we can make that distinction. That's not discriminatory, that's fair. It is therefore a question of solidarity and budgetary responsibility, but also of individual responsibility. It's exactly an encouragement for people to be vaccinated: that's how they know they have to have a PCR test, if they want to go to a mass festival in August, or if they want to go abroad. So I think it is justified to say that we want to make PCR tests available for free, but not for these people who have had ample opportunity to be vaccinated. You referred to the Red Devils. I think it is important that the Red Devils have spoken out in favour of this vaccination campaign. That is a good thing. We will not choose separate groups for the rest. It is now really up to the entire population to be invited and vaccinated, not once, but twice. That's important, too. Vaccinate twice with Pfizer, AstraZeneca or Moderna to be well protected or once with Johnson & Johnson. In this way, we will reduce the virus, in responsibility and solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u42	Madam President, Mr Vice-President, thank you for your reply. We're all in the same boat. You're right, it's a social thing. I am pleased that the Task Force will propose and take additional initiatives. It is crucial that we get vaccinated so that we can all get our freedom back faster, but I still think that the Red Devils missed an open opportunity for purpose yesterday. They could have been a role model by being vaccinated. They didn't, but hopefully they will soon. Not everyone will have had the opportunity to be vaccinated before leaving on vacation. I'm glad you're saying that people who haven't had a chance to get vaccinated can get one or two free tests. For example, young people who want to go on holiday to Greece, for example, can get a free PCR test and leave safely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u43	Minister, there are figures that give the turn and images that are revolting: endless lines for food aid packages, young people who are cracking, 18-25 years old who are now more likely to benefit from social integration income, a doubling of aid to CPAS. These are also the black figures of the health crisis. Poverty has worsened and the numbers have been getting worse. Poverty was already a reality in our country before the health crisis, but today it has taken on terrible proportions. We welcome with hope the announcement of your anti-poverty plan because we know that the revival announced by the Office of the Plan must not lull us with illusions. It is not the recovery that will naturally eradicate poverty, we need a real break-up, which allows us to tackle the mechanisms of insecurity to avoid its transmission from generation to generation. Today's poor children cannot be the poor of tomorrow. We need a clear and clear breakup. The announced revival must not prevent us from turning our backs on austerity. Minister, this government took exceptional steps during the crisis to avoid the crash, to prevent those who were already in poverty from getting deeper into it, to accompany young people, to help workers and self-employed people who have lost their jobs, to support CPAS. But it is a structural policy to fight poverty that we need for the future. And the future is tomorrow! What will be the key elements of your poverty reduction plan? What about the consultations with tomorrow's actors? How do you intend to empower and convince your government colleagues to carry this fight with you?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, like you, I welcome the figures of economic growth in Belgium. Indeed, it is a gradual return to normal life. This is great news for our country, for our businesses and for our citizens. But the meaning of my message this morning in the press was to avoid, above all, that these macro-economic figures hide the reality of thousands of citizens who today live in social inequalities, live in precariousness and poverty. I refuse to forget too quickly those thousands of citizens who, unfortunately, are and will still be affected by the crisis. I would also point out that, before the crisis, as you said, precariousness, poverty and inequality already existed. The crisis has only reinforced this phenomenon. It is therefore time to act structurally. We cannot drop some 20 per cent of our population who are now living in this social precariousness. In fact, the government agreement set a framework. He made it clear that an ambitious poverty reduction plan was needed. I am adding social inequalities, because I want this plan not only to concern people who are now dependent on CPAS – social workers as they say – but also all poor workers who fail to make ends meet. This will require expenditure. There will be, and I will ask the government to get involved. However, we must avoid talking about "costs". When you get someone out of poverty, when you work with children and young people to get them out of precariousness, it's not cost, it's investment. It's an investment plan. It is a short-, medium- and long-term savings plan. We will do so if we now invest heavily in structural measures to get people out of the precarious situation. I trust my colleagues. The government agreement says so. We will have to work collectively to achieve this goal. I will put the subject on the budget conclave menu 2022. It is now that we must invest resources for the future of our children, young people and families.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u45	Madam Minister, thank you for your response and for your determination to pursue an ambitious policy of the future in the fight against poverty so that, tomorrow, no one has to suffer the anguish of not being able to care for himself, not being able to feed themselves properly or not being able to pay his electricity bill. Today, we must no longer simply close the gaps in poverty. We have to eradicate him. This summer's budgetary conclave will be decisive. While growth may be at the rendezvous, it will be necessary to decide: to return to austerity or to make the choice of solidarity. The social emergency was there before the crisis. She's still here today. So our choice – and I have no doubt that it is yours too – will certainly be that of solidarity and the fight against social inequalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u46	Madam President, Madam Minister, I have had the opportunity to discover your profession of faith – which has been renewed many times – by reading today's press and observing your determination to deploy important means – generous in principle, still unknown on their budget steering – to fight against precariousness. You are right: it is gaining ground and experiencing an acceleration effect in the wake of the crisis. I have just heard you with a lot of interest explaining how convinced you were that investing in ways to combat insecurity was an investment issue for the future. You're right. This is even one of the reasons why I regret that from the six billion of this great recovery and resilience plan – I stress it four times – which is nothing more than an investment plan, no envelope has been specially dedicated to the proactive fight against insecurity, although it could have found a place in it with probably new means. This is a missed opportunity, and I regret it. As you look confident in your colleagues, we will obviously expect what will happen to the budget conclave, hoping that your profession of faith will not be a pious wish. I would like to draw your attention in particular to one aspect, which concerns food banks. As a result of the health crisis, the number of families in need of food parcels has literally exploded in all cities, although, seen from Brussels, some appear to be rather bourgeois provincial cities. I assure you that this is not the case and that the precariousness is also experienced with intensity. Alarm signals are being sent to us. Many of us are also told that there is no room now, as they need hundreds of square metres of space, but lack any financial capacity to rent them. Your predecessor had released resources for the attention of the CPAS. Is it possible for you to take a similar initiative so that, through them, direct support can be given to the voluntary actors who contribute to the food bank, including to cover fixed charges such as rents, because this is sometimes as much necessary as food itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have not waited until the plan to combat poverty and social inequalities, which has not yet been finalised, has been removed to work on food aid. Between 2014 and 2019, food aid exploded with an increase of 83%. The crisis has amplified the phenomenon, with an increase of 30 per cent on the part of food banks and 41 per cent on the part of CPAS. So the means are there. During this crisis, at the end of last year, the federal government added €7 million to the €13 million already on the table. I didn't wait and started negotiations with the federated entities. They have made it possible to provide EUR 19.9 million for food aid, and I must thank the three regional governments in that country. I wanted this aid granted during a crisis period to be structural for 2021 by adding €7.2 million. This makes a total of EUR 27.1 million, double the pre-crisis figure. These means will go directly to CPAS, food banks – this is a novelty – or the Restos du coeur. Through CPAS, field associations will be able to receive funding. In addition, aid will also focus on hygiene products that are very expensive. Like you, we will commit ourselves to this food aid. Unfortunately, I do not believe that the needs will end with the end of the health crisis and economic recovery. Needs will always be present in 2021 and 2022. I hope they will decrease later. There is indeed a social emergency. I can assure you that the members of this government also want to be alongside the most vulnerable, alongside the people who need the most help. We do not want and we cannot abandon these populations today. Abandoning them would break confidence with politicians and pave the way for extremists, which I do not want.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u48	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I agree with you in his conclusion. We certainly do not wish to trace the path of the extremists because, until proof to the contrary, despite the Matamores statements of some, this has never been able to bring a concrete solution on the ground. You have been able to double, as you say, the pre-crisis situation, the aid for food banks. This is a very good thing, and any member of the opposition I am, I like to stress it. However, you are talking about 27 million, where, a few weeks ago, your colleague – also a socialist – responsible for the recovery presented us with a plan in billions. A plan, I repeat, of resilience, which we are struggling to see the link between resilience and the content of the recovery plan that has been exposed to us. It seems to me that you had a unique opportunity to capitalize together, through your respective ideological veins, on this struggle against insecurity. You lost to scratching, I hope you win the draw. You're going to have a second sess' with the summer budget conclave. Please, allow me to come back to this rostrum later to congratulate you, because the greatest miscarriages really need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u49	Madam President, Madam Minister, as soon as there was an announcement of the deconfiguration and there were opportunities to rebroadcast on giant screens the European Cup of Football which will take place from mid-June to mid-July, I was alerted by Axel and Vincent, two heads of a youth house in Marbisoux, a small village in my commune. A circular issued the recommendations for the organization of these events, but the impact of the health situation on the organization will be significant and this cannot be done as it was before. Organizers should use the CERM scan to assess the conditions that will be put in place at that time and the protocols that will correspond to the organization. A go of the CERM will not give a definitive go, since it is the local authority that will have the last word. Of course, organizations outside rather than inside will be preferred according to the model in question. The circular gives an orientation until the end of June with relaxations planned from 1 July if the health situation permits. Madam Minister, the final decision of the local authorities, is it not somewhere to base on the mayor a decision that should be objected to? Some mayors, of which I am a member, fear that, despite the reservation system, there will be a gathering of supporters around the broadcast sites, which will be difficult to manage. Do you have any support measures in this framework? So, for the future and after July 1st, because I hope the Devils will go much further than the quarter finals, do you already have some marks for the relaxations in this framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u50	Madam President, Mr Burton, football is a party! We all look forward to the Euro 2021, hoping for a beautiful performance by the Red Devils. It is therefore a good thing that the 11 May Consultation Committee was able to decide to authorise more important events with wider groups from 9 June onwards. It will be possible to organize rallies with large screen to follow the Euro matches in cities and municipalities. Pending the advice of the Council of State on the draft ministerial decree, a circular has already been issued and circulated as soon as possible concerning the organizations planned around these football matches. This gives the organizers, but also the local authorities, a framework for the preparation of these events with large screens in complete safety. I have consulted the mayors who have informed me that it is rather for the local authorities who have a better knowledge of the situation to determine whether or not it is possible to organize such an event safely for the health of all. A recording system was requested to avoid crowding. It was decided that a maximum of 400 persons could be invited and that, in case of organisation of activities related to the Horeca, the rules applied to this sector should be followed. The organisation of rallies to follow Euro 21 on large screens is not yet possible under the conditions previously known. But I have heard many organizers, football fans, and many local authorities who have said they are happy and enthusiastic about using this framework to organize these events with large screens. As you mentioned, it is important to monitor the epidemiology situation and to see whether, from 1 July next, further easing will be possible and to define a framework that is less strict than the one set out today. I still have to wish the Red Devils good luck, hoping that we can all enjoy a beautiful Euro 21.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u51	Madam Minister, thank you. I see that football is making this Parliament live! In any case, we agree on what we wish the Red Devils. It's very clear: football is really a party and we all need it after these difficult months of health crisis. It will do everyone good! These are exceptional moments of conviviality. They will also allow the Horeca or the people I mentioned earlier, Axel and Vincent, to live their club, their association, their youth home. I think it's very important! I know you're going to be very careful about it, but for everything to go well, municipalities and mayors need clear and uniform guidelines. In this regard, we are counting on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u52	Madam Secretary, the day before yesterday your party colleague and government colleague, Secretary of State Mahdi, announced that you would start a war on trafficking, a war against human trafficking. Big words which raise major questions for me, because how exactly you will do that was not said. How will you fight the smugglers if the European external borders are as leaky as a sieve? How will you conduct this war on trafficking if you cannot even conclude a readmission agreement with migratory countries? There are countries that simply raise their middle finger when you ask them to take back illegal nationals. What do you do? You're not imposing sanctions. On the contrary, you continue to reward those countries with development aid. How will you deal with this war against the smugglers if you do not even control transit migration in West Flanders and our highway parkings? Even the governor, who is a member of your own party, says he cannot count on sufficient support from your department. You don't even let your policemen enter the house of illegals who have been ordered to leave the territory. At Flemings who have organized a barbecue, one can invade. We need to protect the rights of an outlawed illegal who should have come back a long time ago. We can't go in there. Even in the exceptional case that one is arrested illegally and wants to expel him from the country, all you do is give him another piece of paper with an order to leave the territory. Your return policy is a total failure, because hardly anyone follows that order. In doing so, you are sending a signal to migrants from all over the world that, even if they come to Europe illegally, they are allowed to stay after they hire a smuggler and come to Europe. In this way, you are more of an ally than a combatant of the smugglers of human beings. If that's what you call a war on human trafficking, you're gonna lose that war already.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u53	Madam President, Mr Van Langenhove, I am not telling you anything new when I say that transmigration is not a new phenomenon. Let it be clear that in the coming months and years, too, migrants will seek their way and try to move on to the United Kingdom. You are suggesting that this is a Belgian problem because we are unable to stop the transmigrants. However, I invite you to take a look elsewhere as well, because then you will see that our measures are quite aligned and aligned with those of the other countries. It is certainly true that people who stay here illegally often have to live in very vulnerable humanitarian situations. A large group of them are victims of trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. We must do something about this, we cannot look the other way, and we do not. We have a number of measures that are part of a structural approach to transmigration. Firstly, the approach and the active detection of smugglers is a competence of my fellow Minister of Justice, but he is not alone. Many other authorities and services are working together to tackle transmigration. In the meantime, you know from my colleague, Mr Mahdi, that there is a pressing policy. Initiatives are being taken to ensure that people who were ordered to leave the territory are also effectively returned to their country of origin. To make all this possible, there is an interdepartmental cell of trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings at work, which is precisely intended to tackle trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings and to put a stop to it by sharing information, which allows for the detection and prosecution of traffickers and smugglers of human beings. The purpose of this cell is also to coordinate the administrative and judicial aspects as closely as possible. Moreover, other services do not remain silent. The local and federal police are tackling the nuisance of transmigration. We also record this together with the local administrative authorities and also with the governor of West Flanders, with whom we regularly discuss this topic. It is correct that West Flanders is dealing with the problem of transmigrants. There targeted checks are carried out, including in Zeebrugge and also on hotspots along the coast, in stations and at tram stops. In addition, there are already existing measures at the motorway parks. We cannot close everything down, but infrastructure measures, such as fences, private surveillance and other supervision, are indeed organised so that preventive action can be taken against people with such plans. Finally, we work very well with our foreign colleagues, including the French and British partners. We not only share information, we also work together on the ground. We must realise that transmigration is a dynamic phenomenon, often seasonal, and that the world is on the move. That is what we must and will act on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u54	Madam President, Minister, when I hear you announce that there will be a war against human trafficking, I expect you to have a plan as well. But apparently there is no such plan. You're just gonna do more of the same, more of the same failed approach, more of nothing. The plan is there, though. The solution is there, it was contained in my question. Finally close the external borders. Finally conclude readmission agreements with third countries. And if they don't want to do that, if they don't want to take back their illegal nationals, come down with economic sanctions, visa sanctions. Finally put something on the table. You can also tackle this transit migration by ensuring at last that the police release sufficient resources for this. Make sure that those residents, which the police and the Bossuyt Commission are begging for, are made possible. Don't let your left-wing coalition partners blackmail you. Madam Secretary, this is the only way to stop the business model of the billion-dollar business that is smuggling people. Only in this way can we ensure that the misery caused by it, both in Belgium and in those migrants, is stopped.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u55	Madam President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, precisely because Vooruit stands for a controlled, but also human migration policy, I am very concerned about today's news from Greece. As if trying to scare birds away from an airport, they also want to drive out boats with a sound cannon. The European external border is already a border with watchtowers, with walls and patrols. To the barbaric techniques we are hearing now, we say clearly: no! This is miles away. Certainly, border surveillance is needed as part of a larger whole, with lasting agreements with countries of origin, with countries of transit, with resettlement as well. Anyone who thinks that a sound cannon solves the refugee problem really has no idea what is going on. All this does is make inhumaneness visible to refugees. I was very pleased with the statements I made from almost the entire Parliament. We agree that this is too many bridges. That sound must now be echoed in Europe. For this project of the sound cannon and other futuristic monitoring technologies, private companies would cooperate with European universities, including with European money. The European Union is investing billions in migration policy, and rightly so. This is also happening in Greece, but transparency is too often lost. Mr Secretary of State, you said today that you would contact the European Commission quickly. Will you tell them that no euro cent can be spent on such barbaric technologies? Will you also insist on greater transparency on the means of migration in general, so that we can stop such matters at an earlier stage?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u56	Madam President, Mr Segers, these are effective sound cannons that Greece is using to deter migrants. Everyone in Parliament knows that I have said a few times that migration flows need to be controlled much better. Of course, we must do so by investing in technology as well. Certain technologies can and must be used, such as drones, cameras and artificial intelligence, as long as they ensure that migration can be managed much better, that people are helped to the border posts where they can apply for asylum and that there is better identification. Guarding Europe's borders is important. Monitoring Europe's standards and values is at least as important. You made the comparison with birds at the airport. I make the comparison with stabbing insects that we chase away, and with Guantanamo Bay where also very loud music is played to torture people. So this is not a technology to manage migration properly. This is totally unacceptable. That is why I have already sent a letter to the European Commission today asking for a great deal of clarity about this. This is not just about this, but in many European countries today there is a problem of proper control and management of migration, but also of respect for European values. Border controls must be better, but above all they must remain human. Belgium also has a responsibility in this regard. We can't collectively remain silent. Then we will slip further away from what Europe should be, a Europe of rights and obligations, a Europe of values and values. I'll watch over those boundaries. We must guard our borders together. These are literally the borders of Europe, but also the limits of what is morally acceptable. Let me be clear, these initiatives are absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u57	Madam President, Secretary of State, thank you for your clear answer and for taking immediate action. Allow me to add the following. Our outer wall is already so high mentally that we often hardly see what is happening on the other side. On the other side of the outer wall there are many thousands of refugees in often terrible, horrible conditions. They often have an entire route on it from their country of origin, through one or more countries. The European Union must therefore opt for an ambitious policy of reception, but also of protection in the region, in order to ensure that refugees are not forced to flee again and again. Instead, however, we note that the European Union apparently chooses to invest under the radar in sound installations. That's disturbing. Those are not our values. This government opts for a controlled but also human European migration policy. That is why we are counting on you to continue to be very hard on the table. I thank you and wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u58	That concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u59	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 June 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 June 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u60	I have received Amendments Nos 1 to 3 on the draft programme law, No 1974/1. I have Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on External Relations (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on External Relations (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u61	Madam Chair, I have no problem with the referral of these amendments to committee, nor do I have any problems with the re-examination of the programme bill. However, having taken note of this request, I had also sent several amendments to the services with a view to referring them back to the Committee on Justice. This is a request from the Confederation of Employers of the Sports and SocioCultural Sector. At the outset, I would like to point out that this is nothing political or controversial. The objective is to take into account the needs of the field. As a large majority of us had wished in 2020, we would like to allow the NSAs and employers' federations in the sports and socio-cultural sectors to postpone the holding of their general meetings, so that they can take place again in a face-to-face rather than in a distancile. As you know, there are many small non-profit organizations in these areas that really need face-to-face general meetings, because they cannot organize them in distancelle. We authorized it last year. Let us be aware, the third wave did not make things easier in 2021. I hope that the majority will listen carefully to the demands of the sectors. Indeed, I repeat, this request is not intended to be political or controversial and will not entail any cost in terms of public finances.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u62	Have you tabled these amendments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u63	These amendments were sent before 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u64	Did you make it clear that it was for the Justice Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u65	It is logical that these amendments should be referred back to the Committee on Justice. But if the members of the House, who seem to me quite competent, decide to examine this matter in another committee, and in this case with the other amendments referred to the Committee on External Relations, I do not have any difficulty. My aim is not to annoy the Committee on Justice, but simply to be logical with regard to the organisation of work and powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u66	If there are no comments, I propose that you send Amendments Nos 4 to 6 from Mrs Fonck to the Committee on Justice, which will examine them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u67	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Vanrobaeys, who refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u68	Madam Minister, we all agree that the issue of pensions is important. This becomes all the more important as one gets older, as one then gets closer to the moment when one will be able or has to rely on it. I do not want to comment on your age, of course, but I think we are approaching that moment. Madam Minister, the government agreement pays a great deal of attention to pensions and envisages a thorough reform of them. The lowest pensions will be increased, which is a good thing. Pension ceilings are raised and the correction coefficient for self-employed workers is abolished. We shall be discussing these two points today. The promised sustainable reform of the pension system would perhaps be discussed in September, and we are looking forward to that with you. The long-term sustainability of the pension system needs to be addressed. The current situation is problematic in this respect. Last year the minimum pensions and the IGO were raised, which we approved, and a route has been drawn up for the coming years. Through the distribution of the welfare envelope by the social partners, we have put a little bit more effort on top of that. This draft law raises the wage ceilings for employees and the self-employed in a section up to 2023. In addition, the correction coefficient, which has long been misguided by the self-employed, will be abolished from 2021 onwards. Although the abolition will only have an impact on pensions starting from 2022. Madam Minister, we will support the draft law, as we did the committee. However, in the light of the general pension reform, for which a lot of study work is still being done, we have a number of comments. You will also have noticed this in our attitude to the article-by-article vote on the draft law in committee. Of course, the increase in wage ceilings is a good thing. If the increase in minimum pensions and the IGA do not raise the wage ceilings at the same time, then there will be a discrepancy at a certain point. We can agree to this, at least as far as the actual periods of work are concerned. I hope that one of the problems of the workers' pension system will be the same. The pension as an occupational insurance means that the risk covered is proportionate to the contribution to the scheme. At the same time, the principle of solidarity is involved in the building up of pensions. But step by step, that didn't happen suddenly. The principle of solidarity has undermined the principle of insurance. At the beginning of the debate on this dossier, I warned you that we must certainly maintain the balance between the two principles. We are now finding that you are raising the wage ceilings for both the effective working periods and for the treated periods to the same extent, but you could also have given a signal for the future. Of course, it is not obvious to make a distinction in this respect and not all such periods need simply be deleted. Hopefully you will take this idea into account in the broader pension debate that we will have in September and October. We abstained precisely in the vote on the relevant provisions in the draft law because, in our view, you missed the opportunity to give a signal. After all, I have already given you those figures, an average employee, and I am still falling back 44 years, but only 30 years of pension rights are built up. This means that this man or woman will be able to retire for 44 years but actually only contribute 30 years. So there is a gap of 14 years and that must be discouraged. You need to find a solution to narrow that gap. For comparison, for the self-employed, the ratio is 39/40. We need to work on this and you missed an opportunity to do so. I hope so, and I therefore insist that you will address the discrepancy in the context of the comprehensive pension reform. That's important. We naturally agree with the abolition of the correction coefficient for the self-employed. The Council of State has made some comments on this. You have responded somewhat to that. One of the arguments for abolishing the correction coefficient for self-employed workers is precisely that the ratio of the years worked to the years contributed is very small. That is why I do not understand why you did not use that argument to give a signal in relation to the periods treated for calculating the pensions of workers. I'm not saying you have to completely neutralize it. By doing so, you would certainly send a signal that all pensioners and all younger workers, who are now contributing to pensioners' pensions today, may have confidence in the policy, yet one of your passwords in your policy statement. You used the words trust and confiance about 36 times. However, there is no such confidence, and you have missed a chance here to create that confidence. To sum up, we will vote in favour, but it is a missed opportunity. You're cutting your pension policy into pieces. You have increased the minimum pensions, but there is no funding for that. I hope that you will find it with the overall pension reform. I hope that you will also meet the target of 80% of the employment rate, which has already been mentioned here, so that we can keep pensions affordable. However, our signal is clear, I hope. You're gonna have to step up. You will find an ally in the N-VA for that, if only because I also like to get a good pension when I can stop working. We shall therefore vote in favour of the draft law. With regard to Article 9, we abstained because you are asking for a mandate from the King to make some adjustments here and there. I do not understand that very well and the Council of State has made a comment on this. We shall therefore vote in favour, albeit with the critical comments I have just made. I hope you will take that criticism into account in the global pension reform, which I have been looking forward to for months. I hope that we will get the first signals on this in September or October.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u69	Colleagues, the draft law before us increases the wage ceiling for employees and the ceiling on the maximum occupational income for self-employed workers. This is a logical next step, after the government has given priority to a clear roadmap to increase minimum pensions and the income guarantee for older people (IGO). The government is therefore not only committed to solidarity by increasing the pensions of those who have a minimum pension or an IGA, but also strengthens the insurance principle for other pensioners and for future pensioners, both in the system of employees and in the system of self-employed workers. As far as we are concerned, it is quite right that we should continue to take into account similar periods. This strengthens the first pillar of pensions and thus improves the legal pension system, which is very important, in order for citizens to have greater confidence in our social security systems. Our group can only be very excited about that. As far as the self-employed are concerned, raising the ceiling and, above all, abolishing the correction coefficient is a major step forward for their pensions. This brings the statutes closer together, thus implementing the harmonisation of the various statutes, an important intention of the government agreement. However, there are still problems of equality in the self-employed system. We think it is important to say that. It is paradoxical that self-employed people who earn the least are the most pro rata contributors. So there's still work on the shelf. We must consider how more solidarity can be achieved in the financing of the system, including between the self-employed, such as the government agreement and also spell out the policy paper of Minister Clarinval. For now, our group can only welcome the fact that we are again taking a number of important steps forward to combat poverty among pensioners, to improve replacement rates and thus to secure a firmer legal pension and greater harmony between the statutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u70	Minister, pensioners represent a large proportion of the vulnerable. Pensioners should not mean having to count every euro, being poorly housed, having to choose between health care or a balanced diet. According to the Anti-Poverty Unit, the risk of poverty is 15.7 per cent for people aged 65 and over, which is intolerable. Women are more exposed than men: it is the sad continuity of wage gaps and many other discriminations they face throughout their lives. Minimum pensions had already been raised at the beginning of the year and it was essential to ensure that all pensioners had the best possible income as soon as possible. Minister, our group will strongly support this bill, which represents an important social step forward after the deterioration of social rights that we have experienced in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u71	Madam President, it is clear to us. Everyone earns a decent pension after a full career. For the Flemish Interest, this means 1,500 euros net each month. We are far from there, despite the intention in the coalition agreement. The average pension of a self-employed person is EUR 911 per month. For an employee, that is 1,267 euros. In the case of an official, that is more than 2,600 euros. The low pension amounts for self-employed persons have different causes. The main cause of these low pensions is the so-called correction coefficient. The income taken into account for pension calculation shall be multiplied by this coefficient. As a result, the income on which the pension is calculated and thus the final pension amount received by the selfemployed person is reduced. The correction coefficient of 0.66325 simply means that the proportional pension of a self-employed person is one third lower than that of a worker with a comparable income. That is a strong scratch on the Belgian blazon that already has a lot of brokeing and bumping. This draft law is divided into two parts. In the first part, the Government and the Minister set out the announced increase in employees' pensions. Our group has expressed its positive views on this in the past on several occasions, and we are doing so today. It's a step in the right direction, but we're not there yet. In Part Two, the correction coefficient for the self-employed shall be abolished on 1 January 2022. This too will be supported by our group. This was, moreover, our group's second recommendation when discussing the Minister's policy letters. Those recommendations were still voted down by the majority, but we are nevertheless pleased that they are on the agenda today, albeit in part. There is, of course, an important difference. Unfortunately, the present draft law ignores part of the recommendation of the General Management Committee of 24 April 2019. It was right to say that this correction coefficient has been an unlawful and unjust rule for many years. They were asked to adapt them retroactively for the calculation of the self-employed person's pension. The general management committee's suggestion is ignored in this draft law by the Minister and by the majority. For the young self-employed, the new regulation will give more than a sip of drink, but for those who have long been independent, the injustice remains. That's too bad. Moreover, in view of the years of surpluses achieved by the Self-employed, it is only fair that this correction coefficient should be adjusted retroactively for these pensions. The adjustment of the correction coefficient in 1997, with two discs being introduced and the higher disk guaranteeing even less pension build-up, proved to be a wrong choice. That decision has opened the gate wide open to all kinds of other systems of retirement. What a measure of solidarity had to be, the great-earners paid a little more and received a little less debt, turned into loopholes and evasive taxation. The cost of abolition, as you claim, would amount to EUR 274 million over time in 2040. However, the social status of the self-employed, unlike all the others, closes annually with a structural budget surplus, which can be used to finance the abolition of the coefficient. In this way, the proportional pension for the self-employed will evolve to the level that applies today in the employee system, although that only applies to those self-employed persons who start their business adventure today. Those who have long been the cornerstone of our economy receive this only for the future and for the coming years and not for the years that have been worked. We therefore regret once again that the opinion of the Management Committee was not implemented in its entirety as regards the retroactivity of abolishing the correction coefficient. We tabled an amendment before the present plenary session to meet this. We regret even more that this draft law does not present a clear vision of the direction the Minister intends to take with the self-employed pension. However, as I indicated at the beginning of my speech, the Flemish interest calls for a decent pension for everyone who has worked a full career. Today we are taking a step forward for our self-employed. I cannot look straight into the eyes of those entrepreneurs who have worked hard all their lives and paid far too much taxes if I did not at least make an attempt to make the measure work retroactively. For all these years that the Belgian State wrongly went on a third of their pension, I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u72	Colleagues, we're used to looking at the glass half full. I want to say that, finally, the self-employed will be able to benefit from an advance, not the least in terms of pensions. In concrete terms, the self-employed who will take up their pension from 1 January 2022 will see a substantial increase in the amount of the pension. It was a commitment included in the government agreement. It's a commitment! In Belgium, it is true that the rate of replacement of pension income compared to occupational income is relatively low. It averages around 60% for employees but barely reaches 40% for the self-employed. It's hard to lose two thirds of his income after working his whole life. The gap between their income before and after the pension is often extreme. Many self-employed people today find themselves with minimum pensions and in precarious situations, while they have contributed their entire lives, which, you will agree, is deeply unfair. It is therefore normal for us that the calculation of the pension should take into account the career performed. The reforms proposed in the vote today are therefore very much expected to raise the amount of pensions. They have two components for the self-employed: on the one hand, the raising of the income ceiling and, on the other, the abolition of the correction coefficient. Today, beyond an income ceiling of 60,027 euros per year, earning more, which means working more for an independent person, does not allow for a better pension. The Government has therefore decided to raise this ceiling, in parallel with the 11 per cent increase in pension amounts over the period 2021-2024. This re-evaluation of the revenue ceiling will also be carried out gradually until 2024. It will total 9.86 per cent precisely. This reform applies equally to wage-earners and self-employed persons. Very concretely, the one who earns more, contributes more. This is the very principle of solidarity – but it will also receive more when it comes to the pension. The second component specific to the self-employed is the correction coefficient. That coefficient was no longer justified. This was already the opinion of the General Management Committee in 2019. The coefficient had already been changed. Today, Minister Clarinval brings it to 1, as recommended by the Pension Reform Commission. This implies that now the amount of pension entitlement for self-employed workers will depend only on indexation, the percentage of the full career index and the status of a pensioner. The two sides of this reform therefore represent for us a major step forward in the fight against insecurity. The reform helps to improve the insurance nature of pensions and further improves the social status of the self-employed, a topic that my political formation has been carrying for a long time. Finally, this is an important step towards the harmonisation of the different regimes. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that we strongly support this bill, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the relevant ministers for their work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law we are implementing what we have agreed in the coalition agreement. Following the increase in minimum pensions and the further increase in the income guarantee for older people, we are actually taking important steps to further harmonise pension systems for workers and the self-employed. This draft law benefits both employees and the self-employed. I am therefore very pleased that this initiative also honours the promises made. We owe this to ourselves, but above all to the people. Firstly, the wage ceiling for the calculation of pensions for employees and the self-employed will be increased. From CD&V this has been called for several times in the past and we are very pleased that this is now being achieved. In order to maintain the level of support for the employee's pension, it is a good thing that you can also get a little more pension if you have contributed more. In concrete terms, these are four successive increases, increasing the wage ceiling by almost 10% by 2023. Employees and the self-employed will thus be able to build up more pension rights in proportion to the contributions they have paid. So we can talk about a better replacement rate than we know today. A stronger legal pension is also an important achievement in the fight against poverty. This is certainly the case for older people who have no or hardly any supplementary pension rights. This measure also strengthens the principle of solidarity which underpins our pension system and our entire social security system. In the long term, therefore, all pensioners will improve on it. Secondly, we are ensuring that the so-called harmonisation coefficient, or the correction coefficient used in the calculation of pensions for self-employed persons, is abolished. It is also logical that this coefficient should disappear, since the social contributions of employees and self-employed persons were approximately aligned. The pensions of self-employed persons are therefore now calculated in a similar way to those of employees. The abolition of the harmonisation coefficient therefore ensures that self-employed persons acquire the same pension as workers with the same income as from 2022. That is a necessary and, above all, fair evolution. A self-employed person with an annual income of 30,000 euros will therefore build up at least 123 euros of additional pension rights every year. Applied to a career of 45 years indicates an increase in accumulated pension rights of 5,552 euros on an annual basis or 462 euros per month. Thus, we ensure that self-employed people also have a strong legal pension and avoid the risk of poverty. These are already major steps in the right direction. We are, of course, very happy to endorse them. We are also looking forward to the global pension reform that will come at the end of September. In this we will work on the rest of the pension reform. One of the most pressing questions is, for example, the pension for reception parents. However, the transitional allowance for young widows is still to be reviewed, as is the cumulative scheme. In the government agreement, we promised a minimum pension of 1,500 euros net per month for everyone with a full career. They're working on it. At the end of September, we will have the necessary discussions, but I look forward to working with both ministers from Parliament. I would like to thank both ministers, Mrs Lalieux and Mr Clarinval, for the first steps taken today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u74	Madam President, Minister, Minister, pensions in our country are very low. This is not the first time that this issue has been raised, nor is it the last time that it has been discussed. Pensions are too low for workers, but also for the self-employed. We must not forget that the living conditions of many self-employed workers, craftsmen and women are often similar to those of employees. With them too we see a great inequality between the small shrimp and the fat fish. We have not yet discussed the competition of large companies or multinationals. Good social protection for the self-employed and small entrepreneurs is therefore clearly essential. The PVDA Group will therefore vote in favour of this bill. After a career full of long days, busy weekends and a great responsibility must be able to follow a carefree old age, that is, without money worries, with a viable pension. I would like to repeat the comments I made in committee. From the point of view of social security, which is very sensitive to us, the higher benefits will hopefully be effectively followed by greater solidarity in terms of contributions within the self-employed group. The underlying income gap between one self-employed person and another can be as large as between a starting employee and a director. I still believe in solidarity. I am therefore proud of our social security system. The most important thing is that these social contributions are based on income, not on fake statute that undermines the entire social security fund. That is a fine principle that we should have applied here too. We have also asked several times about the expected costs of this measure for the years to come, but they are still unclear. That's not unimportant. There's a lot of hammering on that. I would point out that we have missed that aspect. For the record, the PVDA will support this bill. Many look forward to the holiday and the more flexible measures in sight. I'm still looking forward to your pension reform plan. Something in me says that we will still have some discussions about this in this hemisphere. Anyway, I'll give you a chance. I hope that we will be able to discuss your pension reform plan here at the latest at the end of September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u75	Madam President, I will not repeat what has been said here. The draft law before us implements the government agreement by taking important measures, both in the system of employees and in the system of self-employed workers. I hear a lot of talk here about solidarity. Solidarity is built into the whole of our social security structure. That's what our ancestors did. It is right that this is an important principle. There is, on the one hand, the principle of solidarity. This means that those who are unlucky, those who are ill, those who are unable to work or those who cannot work much can count on a decent pension, thanks to the treated periods. On the other hand, there is the insurance principle. We must not forget that either. This means that the pension received at the end of the journey is proportional to the benefits provided and the number of years worked. I believe that the abolition of the correction coefficient for the self-employed will restore what has been a distortion of the situation for years. That correction coefficient actually ensured that even if a self-employed person had worked for so many years, the pension at the end of the journey was skimmed. We have come a long way for years to achieve equal rights and equal efforts. This abolition will ensure more balance and income, both for employees and for the self-employed. That's important. Anyone who contributes must be able to reap the benefits when he retires. Open Vld will approve the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u76	Madam President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, following the increase in the IGA and the minimum pension, we are now taking another step forward by raising the wage ceiling for both employees and self-employed persons. This strengthens the legal pension system. In recent years, the balance between living standards during the period of work and retirement had been somewhat lost. By raising the wage ceilings, we will restore that balance. For us, it is clear that anyone who contributes must also be able to count on a good statutory pension. I would like to point out once again that employees pay contributions on the whole salary but receive a pension on the basis of a capped wage. If anyone who contributes to solidarity after retirement can maintain his standard of living, then we will increase support for solidarity. If one can count on that, then one is also more willing to pay contributions. We will then have a broader basis to better organise solidarity. I would also like to comment on the periods treated as such. It also raises the ceiling for such periods. I have already said in committee that it is very difficult to say to someone who takes care credit, for example, to take care of the dementing partner, that they do not work and therefore do not build rights. Parents of children with disabilities who are on a waiting list for years are sometimes working on this day and night. We must then tell those people that they are not working and that they are not going to be doing it for them. Madam Minister, I can therefore fully agree that you are also raising these wage ceilings. In the self-employed system, the wage ceiling is increased and the pension of a self-employed person is more harmonised with that of employees by abolishing the correction coefficient. I think that is a good thing, because that is more in line with reality. After all, many people today have a mixed career. They try to carry out an independent activity and a number of years later they become employees or try to carry out secondary business. Once that succeeds and that additional profession grows into a genuinely independent case, the other time it remains a side-serve alongside their work as an employee or an official. So we see much more flexibility and change than was the case 20 years ago. In this sense, we are in agreement, but I would also like to insist that the internal solidarity within the self-employed system be strengthened. Self-employed persons with the highest income pay relatively less, or above a certain income limit, no, contributions, while those with lower or average income pay relatively large contributions. That is why the coalition agreement provides that we will examine this and consider how we can strengthen that internal solidarity. Minister, you said that there is a call for tenders on the way. I would urge you to write it down so that we can carry out that investigation and take action in this area. For us, the increase in wage ceilings and the improvement of pensions for employees and self-employed people is a good thing, and we will therefore support this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u77	Madam Chair, ministers, we will vote favourably on this bill. It is important that progress be made at the same time, regardless of professional status, and that employees and self-employed persons be directly involved. Minister, I confess that there was a moment of stress because, as you know, in the government's preliminary draft, the revalorisation coefficient for employees could go up and down. I note that, in the final draft, upgrading will only be possible on the increase, which was obvious. This increases the replacement rate, which is still – let us recall – one of the lowest at European level. This week took place a first overview of all the tax reforms. I would therefore like to draw your attention to the fact that what is being done here should not, if I may say so, be taken up with another hand, possibly with an increase or a change in taxation. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that these pension increases cannot, in the end, be lost in net amounts for the persons concerned. This is a significant risk. Finally, it is quite interesting to hear here the positions expressed by each other. Reading between the lines, we realize that some issues are already being discussed within the government. For example, I do not know whether I must conclude from the statement made by my colleague from Ecolo-Groen that these are the premises of a desire to increase the contributions of the self-employed. I heard what she said and, between the lines, I think that's the conclusion. This, in my opinion, promises us some debate within the Kern and the government, and perhaps here in Parliament afterwards. In any case, know that we will be very attentive to the fact that there are no pirouette towers that would make what we give on one side, we could take it back on the other. At this point, at least, we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u78	Madam Chair, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will also be quite brief as this bill contains a whole series of objectives that my group fully shares. However, I would like to focus on the specific measure of raising the wage ceiling which has been taken into account in the calculation of the pension for employees and self-employed persons, in which account should be taken of both actual and similar periods. In view of the long-term impact of the health crisis on employment, we could not finally do otherwise. This measure, which will be measured in the very long term, will enable pensioners to benefit from a better pension, a pension enabling them to live more dignifiedly and, consequently, to fight poverty better, a difficult but indispensable struggle which we discussed with the Minister earlier. Although it is clear that this measure is not the panacea and that it will have to be part of a real comprehensive plan to combat poverty, it would still have been more appropriate, in the context of bringing employee and self-employed schemes closer together, to fully harmonise the rules of calculation between the two statutes. We therefore keep in line the full realization, in the long term, of this harmonisation of employee and self-employed schemes. My group has also had the opportunity to point out on many occasions that the differences between these two statutes no longer correspond to the reality of the labour market, which also generates more and more mixed careers. The vocational retraining carried out by a large number of workers is envisaged thanks, in particular, to the various training courses which have been set up. I would add that the need for social security in the face of the hazards of existence is the same for all, regardless of the status of work, whether you are employed or self-employed. Unfortunately, the health and economic crisis we are currently experiencing is particularly painful. It is indeed a very large majority of workers who have seen their lives completely upset. One inevitably thinks of all those who have been contaminated by the covid, regardless of their status as a worker, but also of all those who have had to suspend, reduce or transform their professional activity or even simply abandon their professional project, when it was a lifelong project. Of course, the budget impact of the project is not negligible. This is EUR 7.8 million for 2024 alone. Given that, as the minister said in committee, simulations will have to be carried out for the longer term, it is now regrettable that no further details are available on this budgetary impact. Nevertheless, allowing seniors to live with dignity after a lifetime of work and contributions is a political choice that deserves an investment commensurate with their contribution to our society. Colleagues, as you will understand, our group will support this bill, which is a real step forward in terms of social justice and the fight against poverty. On the basis of its consultation with the social partners, it is also a first step towards greater equality between employed and self-employed persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u79	Madam President, I thank colleagues for their interventions. There was a first achievement with the increase in minimum pensions, which will continue until 2024, with an increase of 20% thanks to indexing and adjustment to the welfare envelope. As you have said, social security is more than poverty reduction. As stated in the government agreement, we will also retain and strengthen the insurance nature of pensions. That is true, Mr Van der Donckt, the increases also apply to the employee ceiling, which is said to be differentiated. It was important to ensure that people who did not have the opportunity to work all the time had a proper pension. In committee, I also replied in relation to the Council of State. If we do not give this freedom to the King, it will mean that every time we have a welfare envelope, we will have to return to Parliament. I think Parliament has something else to do. Trust me a little, as I said, about the welfare envelopes, which are being negotiated with the social partners. So also trust the social partners so that these increases can be quickly applied to our pensions each time. Thank you for your support for this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for the comments that have been made here and in committee on this text. I would just like to reply to Mr Verreyt about the amendments he has tabled concerning the retroactive effect. Unfortunately, we do not want any support for these amendments. On the one hand, their budgetary impact would be far too great. These are hundreds of millions of euros as early as 2022, which would be necessary to achieve this retroactive effect. But above all there is a risk of discrimination between a self-employed person who takes his retirement pension before 2022 and who should therefore bear a correction coefficient for all his career years, and a self-employed person with exactly the same career who takes his pension after 2022 and who no longer has a correction coefficient. So for the same self-employed career, the difference in pension would be enormous depending on the date of taking the course of the pension. That would be a source of discrimination. For these two reasons, we cannot follow Mr Verreyt's amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u81	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u82	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1926/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1926/3) The title in French has been amended by the committee in "Bill amending various provisions relating to pension schemes for employed and self-employed persons with regard to the calculation of the proportional pension". Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "Bill amending various provisions relating to pension schemes for employed and self-employed persons with regard to the calculation of proportional pension". The bill has 11 articles. The draft law has 11 articles. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u83	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and the whole will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u84	After consulting the services, I propose that you refer Amendments Nos 4 to 6 tabled by Mrs Fonck on the draft programme law (1974/1) concerning the Code of Companies in the Committee on the Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u85	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Jef Van den Bergh, Steven Matheï, Marianne Verhaert, Nicolas Parent, Joris Vandenbroucke, Barbara Creemers, Kris Verduyckt, Kim Buyst, Emmanuel Burton, Mélissa Hanus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u86	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1781/1) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1781/1) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u87	Madam President, I refer to the written report. Madam President, I shall now make my statement on behalf of the group. The document before us today does not just end up on our plate, it is the result of a process that has been going on for a long time. In the previous legislature, we fought hard across party boundaries for electrification of the last section of railway line 19, to the border with the Netherlands, to Hamant. Together we have succeeded, which electrification has been included in Infrabel's multi-annual investment plan and will soon be a fact. A few years ago, the station of Hamont was restarted. And soon the platforms will also be raised and extended. These are all well thought-out steps in relation to that cross-border train connection with the Netherlands. This is an effective connection, because it fits 100% in the policy vision of Minister Gilkinet and because it makes it possible to trace from the largest city of Flanders, Antwerp, via Hamant and Weert, to the larger cities in the Netherlands and further to Germany. So it's about much more than just a connection between Hamont and Weert. Mr Minister, I would like to call on you to effectively see this project as broad and not just follow SNCB when it says that the business case is negative. It's about a lot more than that little connection, it's much wider than that. It is also about a connection that is important for my province, Limburg. This is not a province which, as I have heard in one of the statements in committee, is remote, but a province which is at the heart of the Euregio and which has a right to and needs to be connected, both in terms of mobility and in terms of business and economic. Ladies and gentlemen, we must do everything we can to ensure that this other potential connection with the Netherlands, the connection between Hasselt and Maastricht, has become impossible due to a misguided policy choice in Flanders in the past, but this is completely out of the question. The motion for a resolution is therefore a logical step in an ongoing process. It is an important step to show our neighbors in the Netherlands that we are ready to realize the connection. It is also an important moment because soon the new government in the Netherlands will have to commit itself, in order for the project to succeed. Since I believe we must do everything we can to show the neighbours in the Netherlands that we have done everything we can and will be ready effectively, we have tabled an amendment in committee. That is what we are doing again today. The amendment calls for an additional request to be made to the government and to ask it, now that a new management agreement is being prepared or negotiated with SNCB, to include in it the operation of the Weert station. Unfortunately, the amendment was voted down in committee. However, because we have to show the Netherlands that we are 100% ready, the amendment is before us again today, even because I do not think that the argument to vote it away was the strongest. After all, it was stated that, if the connection was realised, that provision could always be added to the management agreement. That may be true, but since we know how difficult such a management agreement is to come about, we would better adopt the provision proactively. We are now halfway 2021. Today we are still working with the old management agreement, which actually ended in 2013. Just ask Mrs Galant and Mr Bellot, the previous ministers, how difficult such a process is. They also bit their teeth on it. It is therefore too high a risk that we will soon be able to settle such a provision. Madam President, to conclude, I do not go so far as to conclude that the absence of this specific request would degrade the text to something purely symbolic. However, an amendment with an N-VA signature does not make the text a disgrace, I would think. I therefore hope that, when we vote, we will be able to get your support for the retabled amendment. We shall vote with conviction in favour of the text before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u88	Madam President, I would like to ask you to interrupt the sitting for a moment because of a tweet just sent by Minister Clarinval, which reads as follows: This morning, at the heart of the MR, I clearly expressed our opposition to the decision taken by Secretary of State Sarah Schlitz, without consultation. I think that tweet is on a tense basis with what the Prime Minister has said here this afternoon. The Prime Minister said that there was consensus in the nuclear cabinet. I demand the Prime Minister's presence. I think it is of the utmost importance to know whether the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister Clarinval has spoken the truth. The Chamber has the right to be very clear. There is a clear contradiction between the two statements. I think that is a major problem and I think that every Member of our House will agree with me that either one or the other is right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just explained to my colleague Servais Verherstraeten that I had just read not one but two tweets from a majority party president. There is also the tweet of a minister of this government who has just left the Chamber, Minister Clarinval, who says: "In Kern this morning, as a representative of the MR, I have clearly expressed our opposition to the decision taken without consultation by Secretary of State Sarah Schlitz (Ecolo), to appoint Ihsane Haouach as the new Commissioner of the government." Mr De Roover has just read the tweets of the president of the MR. In essence, by reading this from both the president of the MR and a Liberal minister of the government, it means that this president of a majority party and this minister of the government are therefore telling us that what the Prime Minister came to say earlier is wrong. The MR is telling us that the Prime Minister lied to us. Is this clearly understood in these repeated tweets? I think it's pretty serious. It is obviously impossible for us, since the opposition, to know who is telling the truth, but the least we can say is that there are two completely different versions on the part of the members of the same government. In relation to authority, in relation to responsibility, also in relation to the role of the Prime Minister – yes, Mr.Laaouej! – have a government party that basically writes on the social networks he's lying to, excuse me, but I think it's a particularly serious situation. Madam President, I support Mr De Roover's request. I believe that this requires clarification and explanation of the seriousness of what is happening here between different government parties and in relation to the authority of the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u90	Thank you, Madam President, we write what we read and interpret things as we want. The Prime Minister recalled that the decision to designate was made by the Minister. He said that, according to him, the designated person had, in his words, a CV "concrete". He therefore found that the minister had appointed a government commissioner who, in his view, could be an acceptable candidate. We are talking a lot about the president of the MR who does not sit in this chamber – it is very surprising! Note that he likes talking about him. It gives him an advertisement that he greatly appreciates. The fact that he spoke about the designation in question and that Minister Clarinval indicated that he did not agree with that designation is a matter of freedom of expression. This has nothing to do with solidarity or government loyalty. A minister designates, as authorized by law, a commissioner of the government. Everyone can have his or her opinion on the matter. Mr. Ducarme asked me about this yesterday. An exchange of views was held with me. This exchange of views was the expression of different opinions. But we have the chance to live in a democracy. We don't have to always agree and we can make it known. Our vision of state neutrality is clear. I can speak here in their place. We do not think that this is a good designation. But this is the responsibility of the minister who made this decision. That does not prevent us from having different expressions, and the Prime Minister absolutely did not lie. As usual, stories are told. But in this case it was clear, just as the designation was. Our opinion is clear, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u91	Mr Piedboeuf, it is true that we are not making a mistake here when there is a tension between what is said in the government and what Mr Bouchez says. If we did, we would have permanent activities here and we would never be able to go home. So we do not want to respond directly to that. However, I am referring to a tweet by Minister Clarinval. Given the absence of Deputy Prime Minister Wilmès, I assume that he has represented the MR in the nuclear cabinet. It seems to me that his statement is at odds with what the Prime Minister said this afternoon. That is why I would ask that we get a literal version of what the Prime Minister said this afternoon. I do not think we have the report yet, but that would be helpful, so that we can compare his statement with the clear tweet of Minister Clarinval. I assume that your speech, Mr Piedboeuf, is not aimed at saying that the statements made by the MR in the nuclear cabinet are considered to be an infringement of decision-making in the nuclear cabinet and irrelevant. I consider the MR, especially in this regard, to be a particularly relevant party. U zegt "Our position is clear". That is true, but it is not so clear what the position of the nuclear cabinet is. I really do wish for a text and an explanation, in the greatest possible clarity. If it is true that there is no difference, then the Prime Minister will certainly get rid of that misunderstanding and explain it, but it is of the utmost importance for Parliament to know whether all the parties of the coalition represented in the nuclear cabinet have agreed and supported the appointment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u92	Madam President, I would like to support Mr De Roover's plea. Mr Piedboeuf, I think it is a good attempt to smooth the folds with all sympathy. We do not respond to every tweet of your party chairman. We do not have time for that either, but it is of course remarkable that one party chairman of a government party, in this case yours, is clearly opposed to an appointment and at the same time another party chairman of the same majority is also in favour of the president of CD&V via Twitter in this case. It would then be logical for questions to be put to the Prime Minister, especially since a member of your political group quite strikingly withdraws his support from a Secretary of State and reports that he will examine ad hocly which initiatives of hers he will support. Then it makes sense for the Prime Minister to be questioned. He states that there is consensus in the nuclear cabinet. A few hours later, we have to find out from a minister in the nuclear cabinet that he opposed it, that there was apparently no consensus. Then it makes sense for us to ask the Prime Minister for an explanation. We want to know how he interprets the consensus he spoke about and how he reconciles it with his minister's statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u93	Madam President, I read David Clarinval's tweet: "In Kern this morning, as a representative of the MR, I have clearly expressed our opposition to the decision taken without consultation by Secretary of State Schlitz to appoint Ms (...) as the new Commissioner of the Government". Therefore, a minister of the government who is present in Kern says our opposition to this designation. It's a decision that doesn't depend on the kern. It is a decision that depends on the Secretary of State, which the Prime Minister made clear. Does that mean, because we do not agree, that Kern has debated to vote? No! We can tell the Prime Minister and the members of the Kern that we do not agree, it does not mean that the government is at risk. I can confirm that I do not agree either, and that has nothing to do with the functioning of the government and the Kern. The Prime Minister explained why he did not see any problem with the qualification of the woman in question – whose name I do not mention because we are in plenary and this is not happening. I really don't see why you're trying to create an incident. There is no difference in the decision – since there is no decision that is taken – there is a divergence of views with respect to the choice. That's it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u94	I cannot base myself on the report, because that has not yet been done. For the time being, there's still no way to rewind to this afternoon's footage. This afternoon, in my view, the Prime Minister said that 'no party in the government questioned it'. That is at odds with what Mr Clarinval says. I'm not saying that's a decision of the nuclear cabinet. I am not saying that the MR is not regularly placed in the minority. That could be all of it. Everyone has to decide for themselves what the absorption capacity is. All I can see is what the Prime Minister is saying: no party within the government questioned. The members of Vooruit could argue that they are not a party but a movement. They might be able to wring themselves out here with a handy touch, but I think the MR is a party. If the Prime Minister then says "no party within the government has questioned it," then neither has the MR. That's not what Mr. Clarinval's public announces with a tweet. It's one or the other. If the Prime Minister, who is undoubtedly here, says that Mr Clarinval lied, then we can still have him come. Ministers must act in order. They left early last week. The Prime Minister left too early today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u95	For the last time, the shock of ideas brings forth light! One can object on a subject. Minister Clarinval, as I confirm and say myself, did not agree with this designation. That is not to say that we question the functioning of a Kern, who has heard this opposition, but who does not have the power to make a decision, because it belongs to the Secretary of State in his own right. And that's it! We do not agree, and I repeat this to you in place of Mr Clarinval, Mrs Wilmès and my friend Denis Ducrame, who spoke clearly yesterday. The Secretary of State responded – in her own way, but be it! Our disagreement is not a problem in this regard. I'm not going to add any more, Madam President. The Prime Minister was clear, as was David Clarinval and myself. Things are clear. It's over!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u96	Madam President, if they were clear, the Prime Minister has explained to us here that no party has called into question the appointment of this Commissioner of the Government. David Clarinval also made it clear in his tweet that, during this morning's Kern, he clearly indicated his opposition to the decision. They were therefore clear. However, Madam President, in another place and at other times, it would have been concluded: "One of the two is not telling the truth." This is obviously the point to be made at this time. This problem is not just internal to the government. When we spread in the press in all directions and, ultimately, we talk about things that, obviously, on one side or the other, are not fair, I think that is not right for our fellow citizens. But the people also need a speech of truth. When you're a minister, you have to tell the truth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u97	I suggest you ask the Prime Minister if he can attend. Normally, he could only be here today until 3:15 p.m. However, we will contact him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u98	Madam President, this is not so much a question of the Prime Minister's claim, but he has, as it were, indirectly invited himself. I would, however, urge that we get an answer very quickly. If the Prime Minister comes voluntarily, then of course that is all the better. Otherwise, I will request his presence on the basis of Rule 100 of the Constitution and Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure. However, first of all, I would like to give you every opportunity and ask you to inform us of his reply as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of what this is about. We're talking about the train connection from Hamont to Weert. In the Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions, we regularly state that public transport is the backbone of a healthy, social and sustainable mobility system. In addition, the European Union and the Member States have the overall objective of maximum deployment on cross-border connections. Investment in public transport and rail infrastructure reduces people's dependence on cars and alleviates the transport poverty of groups suffering from insufficient mobility. However, there has been no additional investment in public transport in recent legislatures and decades. The consequences were therefore felt: worse punctuality rates, more defective trains and a falling satisfaction with the service provided by SNCB. Infrabel, the railway manager responsible for the maintenance, modernisation and management of the Belgian rail network, was also unable to invest enough in the maintenance of tracks, overhead lines and signalling devices. For regions such as Limburg or the Kempen this resulted in poor access via public transport. The result was that a train transfer is always a bit of travel, including from those regions. However, the growing uncertainty means that commuters and travellers are too quick to resort to less sustainable initiatives. This government explicitly chose to invest in that backbone of our public transport. For example, we can read in the coalition agreement: "This government will invest extra in the railways. The investments will focus on increasing passenger transport capacity, the Regional Express Network (GEN), improving connections between Brussels stations and cross-border connections." That is exactly what this resolution is about. Opening up public transport from the provinces of Antwerp and Limburg to neighbouring countries The Netherlands and Germany is crucial in an efficient, smart and sustainable transport system across national borders, the different parts of which are seamlessly connected. An extension of the railway line 19 between Hamant and the Dutch Weert would lead to the realization of that important cross-border rail link for the north of both provinces. Minister Gilkinet has regularly said in reply to questions from several members of our committee that he takes the importance of cross-border rail links to heart and also places them on the investment agenda. When it comes to the connection between Hamont and Weert, we know that the infrastructure on the Belgian side has been put in order and that it is now up to the Netherlands to also make investments on the Dutch side. As Mr Creemers said during the discussion in committee, this resolution sends a strong signal to us from Parliament that we need to improve mobility in and from the Limburg region. This will also lead to the effective elimination of the border between the Netherlands and Belgium when it comes to rail traffic. That is why our group has signed this resolution and will be voting in favour of it in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been mentioned here by the two previous speakers: the proposal before us is the result of a long process. The importance of the realisation of the train connection between Hamont and Weert has already been sufficiently outlined and is known by everyone. This can be seen in a wider region and a wider context than just Hamont and Weert. I won't talk about it anymore. I will not repeat my longer intervention in committee, which I am not doing so easily, because that does not seem to me to make much sense. I do take some things out of it for the sake of the importance of this dossier and of the signal we are sending to the Netherlands. The main merit of this motion for a resolution is that it is a signal to the Netherlands that we really mean it this time and we absolutely want to achieve this train link between Hamont and Weert on the Belgian side. It is an important signal, but it must not be overestimated at the same time. Even less, the adoption of this proposal may lead to the end of this dossier. It goes way beyond that. It would be a pity if we had done our work in the Chamber and adopted a motion for a resolution and decided that it would be up to others to get rid of it. Of course, that is not the intention, and that is not what Flemish interest, and in this case I myself, will allow. There is already an oral question from me to Minister Gilkinet on the follow-up. From now on, I will also ask every month, to the furthest of my heart, that he continue to follow up on this dossier and put pressure on it. Even if it gets annoying for people, I'll keep doing it anyway. For I am not satisfied with the content of the proposal. And then I express myself carefully. Of course, we are talking about petitioners, parties, who address the government, but who are themselves part of the majority that governs it. They therefore ask a government of which they themselves are part to express their support for something. As far as Flemish Interest is concerned, it would have been more powerful, more ambitious and more concrete. After all, there are also a number of signs that look less beautiful. That is also what I indicated in committee. We are faced with the reality of a special and difficult political situation in the Netherlands, both at the national level and at the provincial level. I'll summarize it very briefly. When I speak of a less attractive signal, I am referring first of all to the report of the study commissioned by SNCB by Stratec. Despite months of pressing, we have still not been able to look at that report. I will not go into any further details about this now. I did that on the committee. But it does raise a lot of questions for me about the counts, who, what, where, what range, when? The models of the NRM South on which they are based are still limited. I also had questions about the financial figures in that report. I also had questions about the technical aspects and the models that were explained. I don't think they were complete. According to SNCB, the final conclusion of that report was that there was a negative business case. To convey that message to the Netherlands is, of course, a bad signal to bring about willingness in the Netherlands. A study of the cost of the project was also carried out in the Netherlands at the time. The remarkably high amount from 50 million euros to 150 million euros was reached, after which the Dutch Secretary of State, Stientje van Veldhoven, had a second study carried out, a kind of second opinion. That report is now in a drawer in the Netherlands. In short, in Belgium a report is in the drawer and in the Netherlands a report is in the drawer, and we are waiting. In any case, it is very important that all communication lines with the Netherlands are stopped at the moment and that we actively advocate that the realisation of that cross-border train connection between Hamant and Weert be included in the new government agreement to be concluded in the Netherlands. In this respect, our Minister for Mobility, Mr Gilkinet, has an important role to play. That is why I will address him every month and follow up on what steps have been taken in this dossier. The Flemish interest will continue to follow this dossier with suspicion and will continue to exert pressure on it. I decide. It is important to cross the line in the Netherlands. Where appropriate, it is also important to remove the non-binding nature of SNCB for the realisation of this project. In this sense, we have tabled amendments where we have built in conditionality. They were the result of debates in committee. I hope that these amendments can count on the support of all the parties in this hemisphere, who are committed to the establishment of the train link between Hamant and Weert. The Flemish Interest will support this motion for a resolution with great enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the lockdown made it look different, but within Europe borders are less and less an obstacle today. The integration of cross-border regions and their economic and social links are increasing year after year. The same applies to mobility. On foot, by bike or by car one hardly notices that one passes a border. Bus companies are also increasingly crossing the border and crossing all over Europe. Only on the track do we still feel these boundaries very strong. The share of the train in international mobility remains very limited today. However, short train journeys in border areas should be a fully-fledged and sustainable alternative to travel. The train link between Hamant and Weert is a good example of two highly interconnected regions on both sides of the border, perhaps I would even say a highly interconnected, integrated, cross-border region where there is no full connection by train. That has not always been the case, because until 1991 a train drove between Hamont and Weert. Once, this was one of the eight cross-border train connections between Belgium and the Netherlands. Of these eight cross-border railway lines, two remain today, namely Antwerp-Roosendaal and Maastricht-Liège. The high-speed line between Antwerp and Breda, and beyond, is new. In 1996, SNCB already proposed to re-activate the railway line between Belgium and Weert for passenger traffic and freight traffic, but the Dutch Railways refused. In 2017 there was a breakthrough on the Dutch side. Meanwhile, the train drove back to the border in Belgium, to Hamont. In 2017, the Dutch government proposed in its coalition agreement to re-activate that rail link for passenger traffic. That gave perspective, it gave hope for the region to get back a good train connection. Since then, there has been a study on the Dutch side, including the question of which investments are needed. On the Belgian side it was also considered how that railway line is best operated. The train stops in Hamont for forty minutes today. Of course, that forty minutes of standstill can be much more useful if a good connection to Weert is established. There is a desire to reinvigorate that cross-border railway line. That will was explicitly stated in the Dutch coalition agreement. On the Belgian side, too, we have heard from all the parties that there is a will. With the resolution before us today, we also want to formalize it. From Parliament, there is a clear signal, across all party boundaries, that this will exist along the Belgian side to take that rail line back into service, so that the euregio can be provided with a good rail link again and an additional connection to the Netherlands on a larger scale and further through to Germany. With that will alone, we won't get there. The scepticism of other speakers is not entirely unjustified. The investigations carried out by SNCB have not yet been made public, so we do not know the details, only the broad lines, and this also shows some hesitation. On the Dutch side, infrastructure investments are blown up, as we sometimes have the impression, making the agreement between Belgium and the Netherlands more difficult. It is therefore time, and this resolution should be able to contribute to this, that the Belgian and Dutch leaders look each other in the eye and agree that they want to do so effectively. With a warm heart alone we are not going to get there, there will have to be hard negotiations, based on the studies that are there, to achieve that realization. We are counting on this resolution to give us a boost to this. In any case, I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have contributed to this and who support the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u102	Madam President, let us be clear that we welcome this resolution, but the question is how long it can last. It's about a small piece of a total project that's been dragging on for years. To be honest, I have to admit that I have the impression that SNCB had forgotten where Limburg lies. Of all the investments made in recent years by SNCB, only a small percentage went to Limburg. When it comes to cross-border traffic, there are additional problems. I also have the impression that communication here is really a big problem. We support this. We are pleased that the last piece would be rebuilt. We are aware of the need for this. But we're also a little disappointed. After all, we thought that we would learn from this and support the next project in Limburg, namely our own resolution to reactivate railway line 20 between Hasselt and Maastricht. Now surely, because the studies relating to the Spartacus plan, the Limburg speed tram, already cost more than would be necessary to reopen railway line 20. The PVDA isn't the only asking party. We have been working on the ground for months and we hear the same message everywhere. Everyone wants railroad 20 open again. After all, citizens have been asking for more investment in public transport for some time now. You should also ask yourself how it is that in every province in Belgium the number of travellers is increasing and not in Limburg. There's a reason. A connection Hamont-Weert can attract up to a thousand travellers a day. It is for them in particular that we should do so. It is simply absurd to see how hard the limits for rail traffic are still. These borders have only become harder since the liberalisation of the railways, but also because the national companies are only looking at their own interests. That's the only reason why that connection is still not there. According to SNCB, the connection is not profitable. However, if we start from a train service of a public service, we must realize the connection as soon as possible in consultation with the Dutch Railways. It is clear that all federal governments over the past few decades have butter on their heads when it comes to investment in rail or, rather, the lack of investment. Anyone who thought that the current Vivaldiploeg with an Ecolo Minister of Mobility would take a different approach will already be deceived. Infrabel, our railroad operator, is completely underfunded. The railway operating allowance has been reduced in such a way over the years that money has to be redirected from the investment portfolio to the operating portfolio today. In concrete terms, this time EUR 28.5 million has been settled at the previous Council of Ministers through a royal decision. The PVDA nevertheless supports the resolution, but expects, above all, that Infrabel and SNCB will have sufficient leverage in the form of investment budgets, in order to achieve new much-needed projects, such as the Hamont-Weert link. So far, Minister Gilkinet's ambitions have been very high, but the users have not noticed much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the border between Belgium and the Netherlands can hardly be observed outside covid times. It's a detail in the landscape. In the Kempen, the region where I live, we fly faster in Eindhoven than in Zaventem. That's what I'm saying right away. There are hardly any borders in a united Europe, at least not for those who drive cars or bicycles, but for public transport these borders are still very real. Indeed, there are currently only three cross-border rail links between Belgium and the Netherlands for passenger transport. Those living in the border region therefore depend on the car for the journeys across the border or instead take at least three hours instead of half an hour if they choose to take the train towards Eindhoven. The reopening of the Hamont-Weert railway line for passenger transport would thus represent a huge step forward in improving cross-border rail passenger traffic. This connection is much more than a local line in North Limburg. Today there is already an IC train between Antwerp and Hamont, up to a few meters from the border. The electrification is now complete. Next Sunday the first electric trains will also be here. Weert is an important node in North Limburg. The reopening of about ten kilometres of rail for passenger traffic could therefore be an enormous added value. The Mol-Hamont railway line would thus evolve from an outskirts of the Belgian rail network to a crucial link within the European rail network. It would be a link between Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany. In the European Year of Railways, therefore, it seems important to give a clear signal that we are serious about this connection. It must be a signal to our Dutch neighbours, but also to SNCB. I sincerely hope that all partners, both on the Dutch side and on the Belgian side, will really recognise the importance of this connection and will do everything in their power to finally achieve this connection. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Van den Bergh as initiator of this resolution. The Open Vld Group would like to sign them and we will, of course, support them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, railway lines are meant to connect, to bring destinations like cities and regions closer together. Despite our very long border of 458 km with the Netherlands, there are only two border crossings today, in Roosendaal and Liège-Maastricht. That is a sad observation which may have many reasons, including historical ones. However, I propose that we look ahead today and not too far back. If I look forward, I see a Europe that says that we need to ensure climate neutrality through a Green Deal. Yesterday there were signs that we are really on the right track in some areas. There are advantages today, especially in terms of energy generation but also in industry. However, there are still a lot of problems in terms of transport. Emissions are even rising there. As far as the transport sector is concerned, therefore, we absolutely need more connections within Europe, a network that offers alternatives to our transport needs. In this large whole there are two small cities on both sides of the border, Hamont-Achel and Weert, whose connection, in a region in which cities such as Hasselt, Liège, Aachen, Düsseldorf, Venlo and Eindhoven, can offer an absolute added value. I've even heard that the N-VA brings in Antwerp, no problem for me. We do not have to make any great effort to do this either, as has already been said. For the Flemish file of the GRUP Leidingstraat Antwerpen-Ruhr one has to destroy almost our entire province, but this is absolutely not necessary. The 11 km long track is already there today and offers many opportunities. Eindhoven is today the Brainport of the Netherlands, where many people find employment. It also has the fastest growing airport in the Benelux, with international connections to Germany, Italy and Austria. I have listed these advantages many times in committee, but they are really there. There are also thresholds. One of these thresholds is the Netherlands itself. The PVDA colleague said that the previous governments were also to blame for this. To open a cross-border connection one has to be with two, of course. Anyone who knows the file, I have the impression that the honourable Member does not know the file, and knows that the Netherlands has always been on the brakes in the past, and that it was only the previous Dutch government that for the first time included this dossier in its coalition agreement. That is, of course, a special opportunity and I hope that the next Dutch Government will do the same. It will indeed be important to have a short line with the Netherlands. That was a threshold. Another threshold is the investment required. We are therefore dependent on administrative processes. If we cannot overcome these thresholds in this dossier, then the government will have to store a lot of ambitions. Minister, the message of this resolution to the government and to you in particular is to work on the connection, in cooperation with your Dutch colleague. Finally, I come from a region where there is certainly no oversupply of railway lines. We are one of the very last regions with electric rail links. Next Sunday is certainly a holiday in the north of Limburg, because then we see the first electric train riding there. I also come from a region where there is no complaint and where there is change, but we are asking, like many other compatriots, for the right to have many and good connections in public transport. This connection offers absolutely an opportunity to do so. I therefore very much welcome Mr Van den Bergh's initiative and am pleased that our group will support the resolution in order to continue to put pressure on policy makers to make the connection between Weert and Hamant-Achel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u105	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u106	• 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. • 4 – Wouter Raskin cs (1781/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u107	• 3.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u108	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u109	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Nicolas Parent, Kim Buyst, Cécile Thibaut, Eva Platteau, Marie-Colline Leroy, Laurence H annoyée, Albert Vicar, Guillaume Defosse, Cécile Cornet, Simon Moutquin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u110	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1819/1) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1819/1) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. Mr Vandenbroucke, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising the subject of the Bergen station. This is somewhat unorthodox, since those who have raised the issue are not signatories to the document, quite the contrary. The file was put in by Mrs Vindevoghel, who is not here with us now. I often disagree with her but, honor who deserves credit, it is de facto her text that we are discussing this afternoon. The PVDA Group had indeed tabled a motion for a resolution on the subject, which was then copied by the green parties. A few words have been changed in order to be able to present the text as a new proposal. In this case, the honor goes to people other than the signatories. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, we must discuss the megalomaniac prestige project that is the new Bergen station, which happens to be the home of Mr Elio Di Rupo. In fact, we cannot call the project so new, because Mr Di Rupo was still prime minister when the construction of the project started six years ago. The end of the works is far from being in sight. The total budget of the project is not yet in sight either. At the start it was EUR 37 million, but over the past few years it has exploded to a staggering amount of EUR 324 million last year, and that amount is still increasing; EUR 324 million for a medium-sized station, which does not even count as many travellers. According to the traveler's statements of recent years, there were on average just over 9,000 departing passengers on a weekday. By comparison, there are more passengers arriving at the station of the much smaller Denderleeuw, but of course there is no PS headpiece there. If you put everything together, the station costs more than 32,000 euros per passenger. Then we can only conclude that the project is completely derailed. 32,000 euros per passenger and then there is only one departure point, not even a station of arrival, let alone a single train. For the same reason, for every traveler who leaves Bergen, two small cars could have been bought and maybe left with money. Colleagues, anyone who dares to ask how it has come to this will often receive the same answer. On the French-speaking side it sounds that the renovation of Antwerp-Central 15 years ago also cost a lot of money. Then it is convenient to ignore the fact that Antwerp has 5.5 times its population and that Antwerp-Central is the fifth busiest station in the country. For the corona crisis Bergen, on the other hand, took a poor sixteenth place. Honestly: if you are looking for an apparent form of logic behind Bergen's station project, you will indeed find it at Antwerp-Central. Because Antwerpen-Central was renovated, the station of Liège also had to be rebuilt, preferably by the most expensive architect in Europe. That's how this country works. And since Liege got a new station, also Namur had to have a new station. Because that's how Wallonia works. Without this outdated waffle iron policy, hundreds of millions of euros would never have been wasted in a medium-sized Walloon city. As if Hainaut, the province with the highest unemployment rates in this country, would have no greater needs than a beautiful, large, prestigious shelter. The additional cost of the investment also has an impact on other investments. In the meantime, the budget overrun in Bergen amounts to a small EUR 150 million. That amount must, of course, be deducted from the amount for the construction of stations at other locations. The EUR 150 million lost there cannot be invested elsewhere. That is why we have tabled an amendment to examine the impact. Strangely enough, that amendment was voted down in committee. However, we should still have some transparency about the financial impact of the derailment of the Bergen station. Why else would we use the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, if it is not to get transparency? I see no reason why that should remain a secret. That is why we are happy to put the amendment back to the vote. In addition, we must also talk about the political responsibility and direction of the project. It is a coincidence that it was decided to build a mega-station in Bergen, just when the Bergense PS coryfee par excellence, Mr Di Rupo, was Prime Minister. Maybe that's a little too much coincidence to be a coincidence. We would like to see this situation clarified, all the more so because the builder of the project is Eurogare, a subsidiary of SNCB, where for many years Mr. Vincent Bourlard has been swaying, better known by his nickname Monsieur ULM: uniquement Liège et Mons. Mr Bourlard is a confidant of Mr Di Rupo. He is at the head of a subsidiary which had to be abolished for years and which until today has only been maintained as a vehicle for Bergen's already derailed station. As a footnote, Eurogare's Flemish counterpart, Eurostation, was dissolved in 2018. The same thing should have happened to Eurogare a long time ago. That is why we have tabled an amendment to clarify the decision on this matter and to have the Court of Auditors examine to what extent the establishment of the Bergen station's file was supported by a realistic financial plan. Did there actually exist a well-founded file in advance? Was there any closing funding? Has the file been backed up by an established or expected transport demand? Or, on the contrary, was it a politically directed issue? Has decision-making been imposed from above? We would like those questions answered. That amendment was also voted off in committee strangely. Apparently, the majority does not want the public to know what role Mr Di Rupo played in the decision-making of the Bergen station. They'd rather keep that jar covered. People with a worse character than myself could already recognize an implicit admission of guilt in this. In any case, anyone who wishes to demonstrate that Mr Di Rupo had nothing to do with the EUR 150 million in taxpayers' money being wasted in Bergen has every interest in approving our amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to tell you about Mons, fortunately and to my great relief not from a party president who resides there, but from the construction of the railway station in this city. It is not useful to do the retroacts of this file which is not dated yesterday; they are known. In fact, the Vivaldi agreements express strong ambitions for rail mobility. This ambition leads us to question the prospects for rail, news, but also the past. While it is important to put SNCB and Infrabel on good tracks, it is also necessary to consider what has led to so many delays in investment in key issues such as accessibility, the bike-train strategy, the more comfortable and lively small and medium-sized railway stations, as well as the cross-border connections discussed in the previous debate, and to draw conclusions to better calibrate the investment policies of railway entities. For the future, it is important to understand why, not so long ago, our railway groups, financed in particular by public funds, failed to meet their own budget estimates – sometimes with a ratio of one to ten – and the schedule of work in a series of major dossiers. These miscalculations have prevented different levels of control from being properly exercised by Parliament in a timely manner and from questioning the relevance of projects in a range of investments. The question is less whether or not it is a choice of the past, but whether or not it is a question of how this situation could be made possible. Moreover, there are specific problems and questions concerning the file of the station of Mons still not finalized, to the detriment of the commuters and the attractiveness of this station. The outstanding questions have recently come back in the news, which has not failed to question us and question us about the best answers to be given, as Members, in 2021. The way to refer the matter to the Court of Auditors has been mentioned in this House in plenary session by the Minister for Mobility in this House. I think this invites a little humility over the primacy of one text over another. With regard to this issue of democracy, there is no monopoly on indignation and questioning. This probably distinguishes us in this debate. We have identified a series of problems in this case and we are now proposing a solution and to move forward calmly, while in the face of this solution, part of the opposition continues to create and want to create problems. Finally, you may be disappointed that there is no sluggishness and conflict on the subject. In the Ghent-Saint-Pierre railway station file, we saw how much the expertise of the Court of Auditors allowed us to draw useful lessons for the governance and development of the future markets of SNCB and Infrabel. It seemed to us appropriate to re-issue the exercise in relation to the site of the station of Mons, without a political a priori, since we entrust the expertise to a body which is known for its neutrality. Any amendment that goes on political a priori, with a political reading, seems totally inappropriate in this context. Let the expertise and experts work in complete independence and neutrality, without the will to instrumentalize as we have heard. We therefore ask the Court of Auditors, in particular with regard to the Mons station, to identify market distortion factors and the shortcomings in the estimates which would be responsible for them, to examine how public procurement legislation has been implemented at each stage of the project, and to determine the structural, organisational, temporal or regulatory reasons which have led to such slippages. Our resolution is part of a comprehensive approach to the problem and seeks to draw structural lessons from it. With regard to a number of points raised, we know the challenges of rail mobility and the needs, including accessibility. That there have been other priorities at one time, with a series of large station projects, is a fact that goes beyond the issue of the 60-40 allocation key and which has asked a number of questions in other files. For the rest, indeed, every euro in the rail sector must be well invested; I think everyone shares this thought. From there, the chronic underinvestment of rail in recent years has been attributed to a single case, and this is not standing. Ways well invested for rail users are through orientation choices. In 2021, however, we can only act on past choices. I hear that my colleague, who is being questioned on the subject, is leaving the meeting, and I take note of that. Ways well invested for rail users are also to understand what has stalled in the budgetary governance of railway entities. This is a work for which we have the responsibility in this Parliament today through this vote. Ways well invested in rail are also the investment capacity of railway entities. In this connection, I recall that the party of the previous speaker supported a structural economy of 2 billion euros on the back of SNCB and Infrabel in 2014 without questioning the list of projects that could be impacted. I therefore note a lack of ideological coherence on the vision of the investments needed for an ambitious mobility policy. We, environmentalists, have not changed our ambition. Making rail the backbone of mobility in our country is also the ambition of Vivaldi and this government. I thank the colleagues who supported this text in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u113	Madam President, I would like to ask that the crisis talks within the majority do not take place in the hemisphere, out of respect for the people who speak. It's very disturbing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, a comment has just been made about your chattering in the Chamber. If you wish to continue, I would simply ask you to let our colleagues work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u115	Madam President, I would like to thank my group chair for the appropriate statement. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Roggeman has already said that the truth has its rights. This is a proposal that was actually tabled by Mrs Vindevoghel of the PVDA. Honor to all who deserve credit. They tabled that proposal, after which the majority decided to copy quickly and to submit a similar proposal, then to reject the opposition's proposal and to approve it. When Vivaldi arrived, they wanted to do politics in an innovative, binding, fresh way, but there is absolutely no such thing here. This is more like a lame table, embarrassing display. In substance, the Flemish Interest does support the content of this proposal, which should lead to a thorough investigation of the abuses. I dare to take that word in the mouth, without any conclusion of any research being known. The disruptions in the works at the Bergen railway station have resulted in a six-year delay and additional costs in the direction of EUR 300 million. The project, accompanied by a wretched monstrosity such as Eurogare, with raving cabintards such as Mr Bourlard and inevitably, Mr Fonntinoy, who has been compromised before, is a textbook example of irresponsible, pivotal and ill-functioning government policy. So far a conclusion of the Flemish Interest that you get in the first place. We also regret the fact that the content of this resolution is not more precise. The Flemish interest demands that the precise responsibility of the members of Eurogare and also the political leaders be carefully examined. In this sense, we have tabled amendments which we hope will be supported. We shall be supporting this moderate, and in our view weaker, motion for a resolution, under the guise of better than nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u116	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank colleagues Ecolo for having tabled this motion for a resolution. I think it was worth putting this topic back on the table. Colleagues, a small history of this famous station appears necessary, although a number of elements have already been developed. In number of passengers, the station of Mons is the sixteenth in Belgium, the fifth in Wallonia with more than 100,000 people frequenting it every week. In 2004, SNCB decided to undertake a major modernisation of the site by refocusing the station on passenger transport. Eurogare decided to call on an external architectural office and launched a competition. In January 2006, the architect Calatrava was chosen. The construction began in August 2011. With a budget of 37 million euros in 2006, initially planned for the general development of the station site, not including railway infrastructure or the redevelopment of the passenger building, the project envisages the construction of a bridge leading to the commercial space Les Grands Prés, the largest shopping centre in Wallonia. Over the years, this project will become that of a real bridge station, completely modernised, requiring much heavier investments, which will amount to 150 million in 2012, 263 million in 2017 and 324 million in 2020. The specifications of this site have never been changed as the initial bridge project has turned into the construction of a brand new station. The new bridge station was originally scheduled for commissioning in early 2015. This will finally be by June 2023, to the latest news. The main objective of this text is to instruct the Court of Auditors to investigate the delays and budget overruns at the Mons station yard. As far as the organisation of this project is concerned, we consider that various elements have apparently contributed to the increase of the file: cascading bankruptcies of the companies to which the contract was awarded, legal conflicts between them and Eurogare, difficulties in implementing the specifications following the techniques envisaged by the architect. The Court of Auditors seems to be well-appointed in order to shed light on and determine the structural, organisational or regulatory reasons for such budgetary and temporal slippages for this station. From a more political point of view, the MR would like, in the future, as Minister Bellot had hoped, the construction of new stations or the restoration of old stations to be thought from a functional point of view and oriented towards the user and the staff. Several prestigious stations have been built in recent years, far exceeding budgets and deadlines. It will therefore be necessary to review this approach in order to ensure that all stations, particularly in rural communities in that country, are equipped with high-quality infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Egypt has its pyramids, France has its Eiffel Tower and Belgium has its train station in Mons! It's a train station that I've known well for living in Mons for several years, right next to the train station. I was passing through this station where I took the train every day because I am a big fan of rail transport. I'm talking about a station that no longer exists, since it was demolished here. This demolition is precisely one of the points to be investigated by the Court of Auditors. This is a point that will have to be deepened in order to investigate this pharaohic site, which raises a great deal of questions. I would like to explain to you the origins of this motion for a resolution that is before us today. The PTB has introduced a "proposal for a resolution on the considerable delays and additional costs in the renovation of the Mons station". This motion for a resolution is dated 2 February 2021. The Ecolo-Groen Group, for its part, submitted a proposal dated 1 March 2021, one month later. In committee, the PTB identified its proposal as a priority and the Ecolo-Groen proposal was attached to the PTB proposal. There's nothing unusual about this. This is quite a classic committee procedure in the House. However, it is the Ecolo-Groen proposal that is before us here in plenary session. Mystery! How could this happen? But I will break the suspense right away and point out to you that we will enthusiastically support this proposal by Ecolo-Groen, with all the more enthusiasm as it looks very, very, very, very strong at the PTB's proposal. Let us take as an example the recommendations of these two proposals. We mustn't exaggerate either. I hear some colleagues say that it is a copy-paste of the PTB proposal. No, that's too much! Let us take the first recommendation. The PTB resolution "requests the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the renovation of the Mons station under the Act of 29 October 1846 on the organisation of the Court of Auditors". The text Ecolo-Groen, in the first recommendation, "requests the Court of Auditors to conduct an inquiry into the construction of the Mons station under the Act of 29 October 1846 on the organisation of the Court of Auditors". It's not a copy-paste, colleagues. In the text of the PTB, it is requested to conduct an audit, in that of Ecolo-Groen, to conduct an investigation. They're not the same words. The terms are different. It's not a copy-paste. In the text of the PTB, in point two, it is requested "to examine the budget estimates and the original deadlines and how they are to be fixed". In the text of Ecolo-Groen, in point two, it is asked to "verify the initial budget estimates and deadlines and how they were developed and monitored". It's not a copy-paste. In the text of the PTB, it is a question of examining, in that of Ecolo-Groen, the verification. These are two different words. I could go on, but we're not going to overemphasize these differences because somewhere we're satisfied. I want to make it clear, however, that we are never ever going to blame another group for drawing inspiration – we're not going to say copy-paste – from a text from the PTB. On the contrary, we are delighted to see that our ideas and initiatives can serve as a source of inspiration. On the other hand, what is more surprising is the vote. Now we're not asking each other any more questions. On 11 February in plenary, there was first a vote on the urgency of the text of the PTB. The majority, including Ecolo-Groen, voted against the urgent request. It can be said that they felt that the urgency was not as important as that and that they did not support our text. More surprisingly, on 18 May, in committee, all the parties of the majority voted against the text of the PTB, including Ecolo-Groen, which nevertheless drew heavily, without having to copy and paste, I repeat, from the text of the PTB. It's a mystery, you have to recognize it. How can I explain it? To avoid distorting the remarks, I will quote the committee's report: "Mr Parent believes that his text is different from the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Vindevoghel" – my dear comrade, who was present in committee. "Mr. Parent explains that it is not a question of fulfilling personal political ambitions. His approach is sincere. He stressed the expertise of the Court of Auditors. An investigation is necessary to bring serenity back into the debate." I therefore hear that the five or six authors of the PTB proposal would like to "fulfill personal political ambitions" by asking the Court of Auditors to investigate the station in Mons. I then looked at the profile of the various authors of this proposal, including myself. I did not find any personal political ambitions – it is not really in the style of the PTB – and even less so in relation to the station in Mons. Therefore, the elucidation of the mystery is itself another! Mr Vandenbroucke, de Vooruit, also tried to clarify in committee the difference between the two texts. I quote again the report, not to distort the words: "Mr Joris Vandenbroucke, de Vooruit, perceives a difference in tone between the two motions for resolutions." Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely invite you to read both texts. I vainly sought a "difference of tone." I have again read the text of the PTB today, looking for one that could be disturbing. Frankly, there is no more factual document. I must even make this admission to you: I find that the tone is even a little too neutral, almost fad. After rejecting the PTB's proposal, the committee voted unanimously for Ecolo-Groen – which I find perfect. This does not give rise to any sense of personal ambition, since the tone is adequate. In short, it is a text as well formulated as its model. In the end, that is the good news, ladies and gentlemen: in terms of form, we are very far from the new political culture, some of which were used at the time of the launch of Vivaldi; but on the substance – and this is the essential thing – we are going to achieve in principle – since unanimity has been held in committee and we can assume that the same will be the case in plenary – our objective of starting the audit of the Court of Auditors on the ongoing construction of the Mons station. Sometimes I go to Mons by train and like all commuters, I have to take a swinging metal bridge while the windows have been housed in containers for years. I recall that it was in 2006 – 15 years ago – that the city of Mons organized a contest on the train station of Mons. At the time, there was no question of building a new station, it was only a pedestrian bridge over the tracks to reach the Grands Prés district. The idea was to keep the station building, the one that no longer exists. The competition was won by world-renowned architect Calatrava. The costs were then estimated at EUR 37 million. A few years later, in 2012, the renovation project was radically modified, without submitting a new public tender. The new project now includes a completely new station and the cost increases from 37 million to 205 million euros. This cost is shared between SNCB, Infrabel, TEC and the city of Mons. The work is to be completed in 2015, the year Mons becomes the European Capital of Culture. In order to carry out the project, Eurogare, a study office of the SNCB specially created to manage the major construction sites, has been at the heart of many controversies. Today, Eurogare is in a moribund situation. The only remaining task is to complete the construction of the Mons station. Eurogare is 75% owned by SNCB and 25% owned by Société Régionale d'Investissement de Wallonie. Work has been delayed many times. In 2015, SNCB terminated its contract with an Italian contractor who was responsible for the pedestrian bridge. Subsequently, Spanish and Portuguese entrepreneurs were taken into account. None of them was able to complete the work. The contracts have been cancelled each time, with all the financial consequences involved. SNCB then awarded a new contract to a consortium composed of the Belgian companies CIT Blaton, BPC Hainaut and CFE. This collaboration was also broken at the end of 2018, as the consortium is currently in conflict with SNCB before the courts. In short, the renovation continues to take place, the costs continue to rise, the passengers are still left behind, and the invoice, which amounted to 37 million, before rising to 205 million, has now reached 324 million euros, almost nine times the original amount. The text of the PTB, the tone of which is supposedly embarrassing, does not mention any name, any party. We could mention that. When there is a pharaoh site, there is often a pharaoh. Many of us, ladies and gentlemen, have seen this excellent investigative magazine from the RTBF at Mons station. If the investigation were to confirm that the rules have not been complied with in the award of the contract, it is certainly to Elio Di Rupo that a lot of attention will turn. When the pharaohs see their folly of grandeur answered legally or illegally, it is the little ones who pay for it. It is not only necessary to point Elio Di Rupo here. Indeed, those who have read the excellent book by journalist Philippe Engels entitled The Reynders clan know that there are many links between Elio Di Rupo and the men who revolve around him in these files. Jean-Claude Fontinoy, Didier Reynders' most loyal right-hand man, was, not long ago, president of SNCB. We know he's having some trouble with the justice system right now. When the pharaohs see their madness of the greatness answered, it is the little ones who pay the costs and, in this case, the commuters and the small stations that these commuters use, these stations that play with closed windows or are only mere stops. To take the example of the Leval stop where I am currently taking the train, the only thing that is great at this stop is the weeds that grow on the dock and sometimes are higher than I am. It's true that I'm not very tall, but weeds exceed my size. It's to make you understand the state of these stops. How many small stations could have been renovated or reopened with 324 million euros? This is the question that must be asked, even if I agree that the problem of the Mons station does not solve all the investment questions. In terms of rail investment, given the figures discussed in the debates on budgetary adjustment, it can be said that Vivaldi's policy is not extraordinary. But finally, with 324 million, excuse me, there is a way to do a lot of things in many small stations! And what do we see for now? Instead of opening stations and counters, we close 44 counters! This recent decision by SNCB had to be endorsed by the Minister of Mobility. It is therefore also for this reason that it is important today that the audit of the Court of Auditors be carried out on this site, which has not yet been completed. Therefore, I repeat one last time, we fully support this motion for a resolution, because it is a good source of inspiration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we will support this resolution. I hope that it will make it possible to make a start of clarity on this issue. I think we must dare to make a diagnosis on this file, because it is a frightening file. It is a frightening issue both for the finances of our railway operators, and therefore for public finances, as well as for the Montois. I come from Mons, and I can tell you that for the residents, those who have been waiting for a transition for years and who live on a daily basis the work which does not end, which interrupts for a period before it resumes, the situation is invivable. It's also a scary file for all commuters, whether they're from Mons or the surrounding area. The lines that go beyond Mons – and which I know well because I borrow them – to Frameries, Quévy or Saint-Ghislain have been affected, since a period that never ends, by the problems of building the station and the construction site that is not advancing. The incredible prolongation of the work, the considerable overruns of the budgets really raise questions and also raise many suspicions. I think we need to be able to say that clearly. In any case, we will see whether the Court of Auditors will, by means of a roundly conducted investigation – at least that is what we want – clarify all the shades, and they are numerous. As far as we are concerned, this is a first step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u119	No one knows if this is enough, but in any case this is a step we must take. We will therefore support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the DéFI Group fully endorses the motion for a resolution before us. It is pleased that we have finally turned our backs on these pharaohic and prestigious projects that have formed the railway station of Liège, the construction site of the station of Ghent-Saint-Pierre and of course that of the station of Mons. In fact, if one wants to think about the concept of public railway service, a station has only a relative meaning, if one is to consider that what counts is the supply of trains, the frequency of trains, the punctuality of trains and the comfort of users in trains, more than the stations themselves. The budget overruns of the construction of this station in Mons, which was to be completed in 2015, the year Mons was the European capital of culture, are enormous. The budget increased from 37 million euros to 324 million euros with a construction site that was eight years behind schedule. We're not going to cry over the widespread milk, but it's still a shameful waste of public money. This station will have to be completed at reasonable costs. We'll have to take responsibility. It is time to look at what may have happened to explain this explosion of costs. My party is very committed to good governance and transparency in public administration and clearly supports this resolution, which mandates the Court of Auditors to shed light, as it did for the Ghent-Saint-Pierre station, on the shortcomings in the estimation and enforcement of public procurement legislation, and on what has failed in regulatory and organisational terms in the head of SNCB and Infrabel. It is essential that the structural causes of the failure of this project can be identified. We are fully aware of the federal government's efforts to put rail back at the heart of mobility, which can be expected to effectively transfer the modal load from the motor vehicle to the train. We shall vote, ladies and gentlemen, in favour of this resolution, which is part of a dynamic of transparency in the management of a considerable public allocation. In the current context, the evaluation of public policies is fundamental.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u121	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u122	• 5... Frank Toventors cs
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u123	• 6... Frank Toventors cs (1819/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u124	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u125	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that the following bill be referred to the Committee on External Relations: - the bill (Mr. Nabil Boukil) to provide legal status and protection for whistleblowers, No. 1380/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that the following legislative proposal be sent to the External Relations Committee: - the bill (Mr Nabil Boukili) to give whistleblowers a legal status and to provide protection, No. 1380/1. This bill had previously been referred to the Justice Committee. This bill was previously sent to the Justice Commission. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u126	I have received amendments to the bill extending the bereavement leave granted on the death of a partner or child who is cohabiting and entitled to bereavement leave on the death of a brother, sister or grandparent by remarriage, No. 643/1. I have received amendments to the proposal to extend the leave of mourning in the event of the death of a partner or a resident child and to open up mourning leave in the event of the death of a stepbrother, sister or grandparent, No. 643/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 June 2021, I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 June 2021, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u127	The first paragraph of Article 4(2) of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Ethics Commission and containing the Code of Ethics for Public Agents provides that the Commission is to formulate opinions or recommendations of a general nature on ethics and ethics and conflicts of interest on the basis of a request signed by at least fifty members of the House of Representatives. Article 4 (2) first paragraph of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Deontological Commission and providing for the Deontological Code for the Public Managers provides that the Commission is to issue general opinions or recommendations in the field of deontology, ethics and conflicts of interest on the basis of a request signed by at least fifty members of the Chamber of Representatives. I have received a request to this effect signed by the chairmen of political groups who together represent at least fifty members of the House of Representatives. I have received a request signed by group chairmen representing at least 50 members of the Chamber of Representatives. Therefore, I propose that you forward this request to the Federal Ethics Commission. I therefore propose that the request be sent to the Federal Deontological Commission. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u128	By e-mail of 25 May 2021, the first President of the Council of State informed the Chamber that, at its public hearing of 23 March 2021, the General Assembly of that Council had proceeded, in accordance with Article 70 of the Coordinated Acts on the Council of State, to establish a list of three candidates for a vacant position of State Counsellor in the Dutch language group following the retirement of Mr. Dierk Verbiest. By e-mail of 25 May 2021, the first President of the Council of State informs that the General Assembly of that Council, at its open meeting on 23 March 2021, in accordance with Article 70 of the coordinated laws of the Council of State, has drawn up a list of three candidates for a vacant post of State Council in the Dutch language framework as a result of the retirement of Mr Dierk Verbiest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u129	First candidate:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u130	Second candidate:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u131	Third candidate:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u132	First candidate:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u133	Second candidate:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u134	Third candidate:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u135	Since the presentation is not unanimous, the House of Representatives may, in accordance with Article 70, § 1, paragraph 8, of the Acts on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, within a period not exceeding 30 days from the date of receipt of this presentation, either confirm the list submitted by the Council of State or present another list of three names which is formally motivated. Since the nomination is not unanimous, the Chamber of Representatives may, in accordance with Article 70 (1), eighth paragraph, of the laws of the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, either confirm the list proposed by the Council of State or propose another list of three names, which shall be expressly stated, within 30 days of receipt of the communication of that nomination. The possible submission of another list by the Chamber should be based on the nominations received by the Council of State. Any nomination of another list by the Chamber shall be made on the basis of applications received by the Council of State. The time available to the Chamber to present another list or to confirm the list expires on 25 June 2021. The time limit available to the Court to propose a different list or to confirm the list shall expire on 25 June 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u136	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 June 2021, I propose that you transmit the presentation of the Council of State and the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 June 2021, I propose that the nomination of the Council of State and the curriculum vitae of candidates be sent to the political groups. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u137	Following the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 2 June 2021, the political groups were asked to communicate, no later than Thursday 3 June 2021 at 4 p.m., the names of the Members who applied to take part in the Conference on the Future of Europe. Following the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 2 June 2021, the political groups were asked, by Thursday 3 June 2021 at 4 p.m., to communicate the names of the Members of Parliament who are candidates for participation in the Conference on the Future of Europe. The names given are as follows: The following names were given to me: Hugues Bayet Ellen Samyn Anneleen Van Bossuyt Els Van Hoof.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u138	Mr President, allow me briefly to take the floor on the previous point you raised, namely the nomination of two candidates for the European Conference. To those Members who may not be aware of this, I would like to say that this is extremely important. The European institutions are going through a whole process of examining what needs to change in European cooperation. A dialogue platform shall be established. In the end, this should result in a general parliamentary momentum of 108 Members of Parliament. On behalf of the Belgian Parliaments, four Members can be nominated and two of them must be nominated by the Chamber. Apparently it is proposed that there should be a vote on this. That surprises me a little, as there are procedures for deciding candidates. Those procedures are laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. The Flemish Parliament had to nominate names and applied the D'Hondt method to this end. Mr Vanlouwe will be proposed. The Parliament of the French Community had to nominate someone and also applied its Rules of Procedure. Someone from Ecolo will be nominated. Now the decision is before the Chamber. It seems logical to me that we too should ensure that everything is done neatly and correctly. This means that we are applying the Rules of Procedure. I therefore ask for Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure to be applied, from which I quote: 'To appoint the Chamber among its members according to the proportional representation of the political groups'. There is therefore no provision for a voting procedure. In fact, it is simply established that those names are by definition referred to via the D'Hondt system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u139	I let you talk too fast, I hadn't finished reading the note. The Chamber must appoint a French-speaking member and a Dutch-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u140	This is the European Conference, for which two candidates must be appointed. In this context, I am requesting the application of rule 158 of the Rules, which provides that the appointment of these two members must be made in accordance with the D'Hondt system. There is no possibility of an election; the Rules must be enforced. I have a motion in which we ask that the Rules of Procedure be applied if there are any questions or people question that, but I cannot imagine that I will have to use that motion, given that we are all democrats and agree that the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber should be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u141	The team I'm going to pass the relay to tells me that it is a secret vote and that it will therefore be difficult to make a D'Hondt system. But everything is possible in our country, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, if I take matters back where they have stopped, we were referring, on the one hand, to the appointment of two members of the Chamber to participate in the Conference on the Future of Europe and, on the other hand, in the same note, to the appointment of a Dutch-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. The idea is to appoint people to vote in secret ballots. I understand your willingness to apply the d'Hondt key, but in any case, a secret ballot must be held.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u143	Madam President, unfortunately that is not in our Rules of Procedure. Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure provides that such appointments must be made by proportional representation. There is therefore no option, there can be no exception, there can be no request for a vote on it. It is a pure application of Article 158 which provides that it must be carried out by proportional representation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u144	Article 157 states: "All appointments and presentations to be made by the Chamber shall be made by secret ballot by an absolute majority of votes, unless the Constitution or the law provides for a different majority."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u145	Mr Loones, you refer to Article 159, but Article 159 refers to Articles 157 and 158. I invite you to read Article 157 again. However, I re-read Rule 159: "When the House is called upon to appoint delegates to international assemblies, it shall make their appointment in accordance with the provisions of Rules 157 and 158." As the Speaker of the Assembly said, "all appointments and presentations to be made by the House shall be made by secret ballot by an absolute majority of the votes". So it's by secret ballot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u146	Madam President, Rule 158 should be read in conjunction with Rule 3 on the composition of the Bureau. As you quite rightly said, Rule 157 applies to this matter, which is a secret vote and an absolute majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u147	Madam President, Mr Verherstraeten, it is actually very cynical that you refer to the articles on the composition of the Bureau, which should actually be carried out according to the D'Hondt system. It is only since the Flemish Interest has a Vice-President that we are in the Bureau that you do not apply the D'Hondt system to the additional members of the Bureau, because that part is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. It is very nice to refer to that. Mr Laaouej, Rule 158 (1) deals with appointments by the Chamber to its members. That is exactly what we are doing now, namely sending people to this important European Conference. We have already had a debate on this at the Conference of Presidents and it is clear what the problem is. It is not that the Rules of Procedure do not provide for what we must apply, which is perfectly provided for by the Rules of Procedure. "To make appointments by the Chamber among its members shall be made in accordance with the proportional representation of the political groups." This is a correct, democratic and objective system, on the basis of which the distributions should be made here. However, the problem is bigger than that. That is what was raised by colleagues in the Conference of Presidents. There are four Members to this Conference, two are filled in by the Länder and two through the Chamber and they do not want to be present at the same parties. It was literally said in the Conference of Presidents. The members who were there can only confirm that. I can still understand why they do not want to make this exercise, that they do not want to go to the same two parties for that conference. However, it is one thing, ladies and gentlemen. A secret vote is not provided for in our Rules of Procedure. So one must apply the D'Hondt system as it is always applied and that is to the delegation of the Chamber. My colleague's logic is then followed. We can also follow a different logic, which I will discuss in detail later, namely the way in which joint committees of the Chamber and Senate are filled. Then you apply that principle of proportionality creatively differently, not as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, namely a representativeness per assembly, no, you throw the assembles together and apply a representativeness. If the concern of colleagues in the Conference of Presidents was not to reach the same parties, then the D'Hondt system should be applied to the whole. But there is apparently a problem there too, because you do not like the result, because then you get to PS and Flemish Interest. You can try to adapt the systems if you do not like the result, but that is not very respectful and not very democratic. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for a secret vote, and it is therefore absolutely inappropriate to push through the mutual agreements in this way, contrary to all the regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u148	Madam President, last week I received the taste of the Rules of Procedure after I had received that simple motion. It is our clerk's Bible and I would like to refer to page 537 of this Bible. It goes without saying that there are two types of procedure. The first applies when we talk, for example, about appointments to the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors, the Ombudsman, the Standing Supervisory Committee and so on. There are five pages with such appointments. Article 157 is used for this purpose, inter alia because there must be anonymity for the candidates. There is no mention on these five pages of examples and points of reference of 'appointments to the European Committee for the Future of the European Union'. That is also logical, because that appointment simply does not belong there, and such an appointment falls within the scope of Article 158. That is exactly what our Rules of Procedure are referring to. Madam President, I hope that you will ensure that our Rules of Procedure are correctly applied from your office.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u149	Does anyone else wish to speak on the proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u150	Madam President, it is not said in so many words, but I see the doubt in the eyes of a number of people. I have tabled a motion to request the application of Rule 158 so that we apply the Rules of Procedure correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u151	I'll read you the motion. A motion was tabled by Mr Sander Loones, Mrs Anneleen Van Bossuyt and Mr Peter De Roover and reads as follows: "The Chamber of Representatives, - having regard to the fact that Article 158 of the Rules of Procedure provides that: "Without prejudice to Article 3, appointments shall be made by the Chamber among its members in accordance with the proportional representation of the political groups. This proportional representation of the political groups shall be determined on the basis of their number of seats, as determined after each election to the Chamber of Representatives. On a proposal from the Bureau, the Chamber shall determine the number of seats which in any case belong to each political group.'; - having regard to the fact that the Senate, the Flemish and the French Community Parliaments have also designated their delegates for the Conference on the Future of Europe in accordance with their Rules of Procedure; calls for the immediate application of Article 158 of the Rules of Procedure for the appointment of its delegates to the Conference on the Future of Europe." A motion was tabled by Mr. Sander Loones, Ms. Anneleen Van Bossuyt and Mr. Peter De Roover and reads as follows: "The House of Representatives, - Whereas art. 158 of the Rules of the Chamber states that: "Without prejudice to article 3, the appointments to be made by the Chamber among its members shall be proportional representation of political groups. The proportional representation of political groups shall be determined on the basis of the number of seats obtained by those groups after each election of the House of Representatives. The Chamber shall determine, on a proposal from the Bureau, the number of places to be allocated to each political group in each case."; - Whereas the Senate, the Parliament of the Flemish Community and the Parliament of the French Community have also designated their representatives for the Conference on the Future of Europe in accordance with their Rules of Procedure; requests the immediate application of Art. 158 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber for the nomination of its representatives for the Conference on the Future of Europe." I propose that we vote on this motion immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u152	Madam President, you will have noted that the motion does not call for a vote. The motion calls for the Rules of Procedure to be applied and the Rules of Procedure do not provide for a vote. The Rules of Procedure state that 'appointments must be made'. It does not say "we have to vote or the appointments will be made." That is not in the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure state that this will be done through proportional representation. I am therefore simply asking for the Rules of Procedure to be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u153	You are asking for the application of one article in particular. I hear that the application of another article is also being requested. I have two questions in the Chamber. You do have a motion, but other Members refer to Rule 157.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u154	Madam President, I refer to what I have just said to you. There is clearly no common ground between us and other colleagues on the applicability of Article 158. That's not appropriate. Article 157 shall apply. I therefore fully endorse your position on this matter. If a motion is tabled on this matter, it is obviously parliamentary law and the Chamber can decide on that motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u155	Madam President, things are getting a little surreal here. Last week, no member of the government was present to ask for urgency. That wasn't a problem. Someone was summoned and the agenda was suddenly closed and reopened for that item. The majority didn't see any bones in that. This week, I hope the Prime Minister is on his way. I asked him to come and you said you'd pass it on. It's been a while. He's already been able to avoid the Journal of 19 hours. There is a manifest contradiction between what the Prime Minister states here in the Chamber and not with a slip of the tongue in some interview and what is subsequently expressed by a member of his government. We are now entering that surrealist theatre that we are stepping up here into the situation that apparently our Rules of Procedure do not know how long that thing has been in existence, but there is a thick Bible about it that gives rise to the question of what that means. You know, let's vote on it. Let us vote by a majority on what the Rules of Procedure mean. Perhaps the participation in the current situation is so strong that we can give it any explanation that suits us according to the situation. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, it will be a slapstick. It is really going to be an embarrassing display, which we are going to have to undergo here week after week. I do not know whether you understand and understand that, under the motto of new political culture and political renewal, we are working on what should actually be called political destruction. I am simply asking for the application of the Rules of Procedure. In all honesty, I must say that someone must have a very distorted mind, in order to give the impression that that is not true in the article that Mr Loones considers applicable in this area. I would certainly also like to address the clerk who wrote a book about it. Perhaps it would be wise for us to ask for a legal note from the Chambers on this matter. After all, we cannot push the idiotry so far that we can vote on a Rules of Procedure which are actually flawless.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u156	Madam President, there is a disagreement on the Rules of Procedure. Some say that it is Article 157 and I believe that it is Article 158. Article 158 explicitly refers to 'appointments by the Chamber among its members'. That is not really in Article 157, which deals with third parties who are appointed. The Rules of Procedure are very clear to me. Apparently, it's still open to interpretation. I therefore propose that a statement on this subject be made in writing in a note from the Court's Legal Service. We are not going to vote on which Rule applies, because one or the other is not appropriate. We need to be clear about this. We need to be clear about that. So ask the services for a note. Explain the point until next week. A secret ballot wouldn't have worked until next week. So it is certainly not a delay manoeuvre, but at least it is a correct way of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u157	Article 157 refers to 'all appointments and nominations of the Chamber', all, no exceptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u158	Ik lees ook "alle benoemingen", all appointments. Colleagues, a motion has been tabled. There is a divergence of interpretation and will among the members. I can only propose to you to vote on the motion tabled; I have no other choice unless the motion is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u159	Madam President, if it reassures your conscience that I withdraw that motion, I will. It is not a motion for a vote; it is a motion asking for the Rules of Procedure to be applied. If that is the bridge we need to cross to get a legal note, which we all know is the only solution, then I will withdraw my motion immediately. I believe that the proposal by colleagues De Roover and Pas is the only viable option, namely a legal note from the services of the Chamber, in black and white.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u160	With regard to the designation of the Conference on the Future of Europe, we can of course be seen as a country that is not able to decide. I believe that work will begin within a relatively short time and that the Senate has been able to appoint its members. Again, we are witnessing a kind of flabbus to counter proposals that are being put forward. That's what I see. I read the rules: "All appointments". "All appointments."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u161	Madam President, as President-in-Office of the Council, you must ensure that the Rules of Procedure are correctly applied. There's no one here asking for delay manoeuvres. Opening a secret ballot and people for days to cast a secret vote will take at least as long as a note asking the Legal Service of the Chamber. This is by no means filibustering or a delay manoeuvre. This is only a clear question for you, as guardian of the Rules of Procedure, to clarify differences of interpretation which apparently exist so that the Rules of Procedure can be correctly applied. No more or no less.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u162	We have a Rules of Procedure, we have an Rule, and there is a dispute as to how that should be read and understood. That dispute exists in the form of political groups on the one hand and political groups on the other. I do not know whether it is a coincidence that the majority and opposition groups are involved. I'll leave that in the middle. That's irrelevant. I want to confine myself to facts. It cannot be denied that the reading of the Rules of Procedure as put forward by Mr Loones is, in my view, at least a possible reading of the Rules of Procedure. That cannot be denied. We will not then decide by political majority what is the right reading. Why do we have a legal service in this House? A legal service which, by the way, always does a very good job. I will tell you, on behalf of my group, that we, as the legal service, will take a position on this, given the importance that the legal service deserves. I would like to invite everyone to proceed in the same way in this matter. When we vote later on on draft laws and legislative proposals, these are political positions. The interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is not a political position. That is why the only objective way of dealing with this is for the Court's legal service to be conclusive. Any other way is to abuse the majority. I'm sorry. In political matters, the majority is the majority. All due respect for that. I'm sorry it is, but it's no different. I can live with that. But if that is the case in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, we are really opening the way to a completely open interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. From now on, anything will be possible. From the moment the majority votes in favour of an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure can then be read as such. That's not serious. No one in this House can object, I think, to calling an objective referee to help in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u163	I think we clearly have a different interpretation. I say it very calmly. There is rule 157 that deals with all appointments, and rule 158 that speaks of members, implied when we speak internally, in our committees, in our working groups, in our internal tools in the House. It's not written like that, but it's the spirit of this article. Here we are talking about an external designation. We are appointing a representative for an outside organization. And if we designate an external body, it is clearly said that we can also refer to Article 157. That is what is proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u164	Madam President, you are now interpreting yourself. That's why we're asking the Legal Service for clarity. Article 157 indeed says 'all appointments', as Mr Verherstraeten rightly pointed out. That is the case with the rules of law. He's a lawyer, I'm not, but I do know that there are general rules and that there are articles afterwards for specific situations that deviate from the general rule. Indeed, Article 157 'all appointments', Article 158 'all appointments among its members'. That is the specific situation we are in: we must make appointments among the members of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u165	I would like to refer to two or three things in the interpretation of the texts. When there is no ambiguity, these are strict interpretations. What does Article 157 say? All appointments and presentations to be made by the Chamber shall be made by secret ballot, by an absolute majority of the votes, unless the Constitution or the law provides for a different majority. That means that if there is no legal or constitutional derogation from this fundamental principle of secret balloting, I will not offend you to understand in what you say that you are comparing the Rules, however respectable, to a law or to the Constitution. Therefore, Madam President, I believe that Rule 157 is fully applicable if this House so decides. That is why a motion co-signed by all the majority group leaders was forwarded to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u166	I have indeed received a second motion from the majority proposing to apply rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. A motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and reads as follows: "The Chamber, calls for the application of Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure for the appointment of Members of the Chamber for the Conference on the Future of Europe." A motion was tabled by Maggie De Block, MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Servais Verherstraeten, Gilles Vanden Burre and Benoît Piedboeuf and is worded as follows: "The Chamber, requests the application of Art. 157 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber for the Appointment of the Delegation of the Chamber for the Conference on the Future of Europe."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u167	Madam President, lex specialis derogat legi generali. Madam Secretary of State is also a lawyer, she may be able to confirm this. In order to make the debate even clearer, there is also Article 159 after Articles 157 and 158. What does Article 159 say? "When the Chamber has to appoint delegates to international meetings, it shall appoint them in accordance with Rules 157 and 158." So that refers to the two. When you read those three articles together, it is quite logical that, when it comes to appointments to be made for people who are not Members of Parliament, such as a judge in the European Court of Justice, but also other external people who need to be appointed to international meetings, Article 157 is applied. When it comes to Members to international meetings to be referred to among its members, what we are doing here, it goes without saying that we must apply Rule 158. The relevant criterion, Madam President, is not the word 'all' but the word 'among its members', as Mrs Pas has repeated a number of times. That's my reading. I think the discussion has lasted long enough, just to be clear. Mr De Roover summarized it perfectly: there is a difference in reading and then there is only one way to get out of it, namely when an objective referee judges it. That is the legal service that puts a note on paper on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u168	I suggest we vote. I have two motions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u169	I'm withdrawing the motion. The motion does not require a vote, the motion calls for the Rules of Procedure to be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u170	Madam President, I do not understand, and I say this in the micro so that it is included in the Reports, I do not understand the fears of certain groups here for a legal note from the Chamber. I don't understand. If you're so sure about your play, we could have stopped 15 minutes ago. Mr Laaouej, you are so convinced of your right. Are you now saying that the legal service will put its legal logic in the wrong way in our interpretation of the Rules of Procedure? If the majority refuses to use a note from the Legal Service of the Chamber as an arbitrator here, that is a motion of censure against the services. This is a rudeness which I hope you will not use.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u171	You could have asked for this legal note at the Conference of Presidents. You didn't. This clearly means that you want to "do the procedure" in plenary session. We explain to you that we have a different reading. You have also tabled a motion. We dropped off another one. Madam President, I propose that you proceed to the vote to continue our work because I think we have not exhausted our agenda. There are laws calling for a ruling. I believe that this may also be what is expected of our parliamentary assembly, as we also expect it to meet a number of international obligations as a matter of urgency. I propose that you proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u172	Madam President, for having studied the various articles closely, I think there is at least a great deal of confusion. My fear is that what we decide here today will make case law for the years to come, that is, that in the next edition of the excellent book that will come from Mr. Van der Hulst, there will be this debate and, in hesitation, whether the House has decided in that sense or not. It's kind of my fear. I therefore think that we could still ask for the advice of the services in order to know what it is going on. It's not a detail. The question is whether the D'Hondt key applies when it comes to sending Members to external bodies. It's valid for the next 15, 20 or 30 years. That doesn't seem to me to be a detail. So on this side, I don't think we have much to lose. Perhaps we can do an accelerated procedure in this area. We must avoid creating, perhaps without wanting to do so, case law for the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u173	I note that you give a certain longevity to the Conference on the Future of Europe. I think some people want to go faster than 15, 20 or 30 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u174	Madam President, I would like to respond very briefly to Mr Laaouej, who seems to be insinuating at least evil on my part. It is important that debates are conducted in an open, factual and correct manner. Those present at the Conference of Presidents will be able to testify that I explicitly requested the application of the D'Hondt key.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u175	Yes, you did, but there was no consensus on that. (The sitting was suspended at 1 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) Are you holding your motion, Mr. Loones? No?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u176	Imagine that the services would be able to filter out a certain reading of the various articles quoted as correct, but I can assume that, if we want to organize the further functioning of the Chamber somewhat seriously, we will accept that this is the right reading. It may not be our reading; lawyers will never agree. Either way, we need a referee. We cannot repeat this forever. If the opposition at any point in the Rules of Procedure were to claim that it had another creative reading and called into question the Rules of Procedure every time, I would follow you when you say:finita la commedia, we shall proceed to the order of the day, because that is no longer serious. However, we have never done this before, so you cannot claim that we are taking advantage. We are honestly convinced that the application of the Rules of Procedure, as requested by the majority, is wrong. Unlike the majority, we have the modesty to submit it to an arbitrator. I don't really know what I'm hearing. Surely you cannot reject an objective arbitration in this matter? That's impossible, isn't it? Moreover, the delay, which is not really a delay, has no effect whatsoever. She doesn't lead to any huge problems. So let us stop the discussion, until an arbitrator is the only one who is appropriate for this purpose, is the Legal Service of the Court of Justice, and then we can move on. But don't abuse the majority in that respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u177	Mr De Roover, I do have another motion here, particularly that of the majority. Is there any request to vote on the remaining motion? [[Applause from the left]] We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution. I suggest we vote with sitting and getting up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u178	I'm sorry, Madam President, but this is all about a seizure of power. There is a serious and correct dispute about the Rules of Procedure. One cannot deny that it is a serious dispute. It's not a far-fetched interpretation. The words that were used on this side are not really Mr Verherstraeten. Is that the ultimate truth? This is where we show modesty. Colleagues, will you impose the interpretation by a majority? Don't do that. This is indecent; that is abuse; that is a hold over. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u179	They seem to want to proceed to the vote. Then let's do it. How does Vooruit vote, Mrs Depraetere?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u180	That is the dictatorship of the majority!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u181	We have to stop with these expressions. Here, I have to apply the rules. You are asking to apply the Rules! I have received a motion, and the rules require that we proceed to the vote if the person who introduces the motion so requires. That too is the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u182	Madam President, the motion you tabled for a vote is admissible only if it does not go against the Rules of Procedure. If the motion goes against the Rules of Procedure, the motion shall be inadmissible. You will watch over that as chairman. Whether or not the motion goes against the Rules of Procedure will have to be reflected in the opinion. At the moment there is reasonable doubt and reasonable argument that the motion before us does not recognize the Rules of Procedure, so we cannot vote on it until we have a clear interpretation. There can be no vote on the motion. That motion is inadmissible until it is shown that it does not conflict with the Rules of Procedure. We haven't figured that out yet, and we're not gonna get out of it tonight either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u183	Mr De Roover, I hear your comments. I maintain that I have received a motion and that those who have introduced it request the vote. In my view, this motion is correct in form and is admissible. It is a matter of applying Article 157 or Article 158. Some Members are asking for the application of rule 157 and have introduced a motion to that effect, as you have introduced a motion calling for the application of rule 158. I therefore propose that we proceed to the vote and that this circus end!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u184	Two major problems in one afternoon, it's a bit much for an old man. Anyway, this can't be happening. We cannot vote on a motion to suspend the Rules of Procedure. I claim that the motion has that content. You cannot put it to the vote! It is a motion which asks not to apply the Rules of Procedure. Another thing is that the majority amends the Rules of Procedure. She can, but she cannot table a motion asking that the Rules of Procedure should not be applicable. Am I right about that? I'm repeating myself. Someone else has to judge that, but not a majority. Tomorrow, the majority will decide that the request for the opinion of the Council of State should be supported not by fifty but by one hundred and fifty Members. Then what will you do? Will you put that motion to the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u185	I maintain my wish to proceed to the vote. Besides, he was in class. At the Conference of Presidents, the subject was raised. Both theses have been developed. You pleaded for the application of section 158 and the d'Hondt key and we pleaded for the application of section 157. At the end of the discussion, there was no consensus, so it was said that we would talk about it again in plenary, where everyone would then continue their analysis of how to apply the Rules of Procedure. That's what we do. We are consistent with what we said in the Conference of Presidents. You could have asked the services at that time. You didn't. The discussion we had was not just between the groups that made up the assembly. It also took place in the presence of the clerk and assistant clerk whom I am not trying to involve, but they were there. At no time was it noted, since you yourself referred to the book and the doctrine, precisely by referring to our clerk, that there was an obstacle to the application of section 157. You have an interpretation. We have another one. You have tabled a motion. That is why we have also tabled a motion. Now, each one's interpretation. Madam President, I propose to put to the vote democratically the interpretation of each other. There is not a good interpretation and a bad one. There are two interpretations. Everyone thinks his is the right one and we think ours is the right one. That is why, Madam President, I hope that the vote can be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u186	I propose that the chairmen take a decision on this motion. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request. The motion was adopted. The motion has been passed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u187	The Chamber must appoint a French-speaking member and a Dutch-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. (2039/1) The Chamber should appoint a French-speaking and Dutch-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. (2039/1) Nominations were announced in plenary on 22 April 2021. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 22 April 2021. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 June 2021, I propose that you make these appointments during the plenary meeting on 10 June 2021. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 June 2021, I propose that these appointments be made at the plenary session of 10 June 2021. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Friday 4 June 2021 until Thursday 10 June 2021 at 4 p.m. Ballot papers and parliamentary documents are available in the General Secretariat. - Members may vote from Friday 4 June 2021 until Thursday 10 June 2021 at 4 p.m. The ballots and parliamentary documents are available to the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. - The ballot boxes will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday, 10 June 2021, at 4 p.m. in Room 3. - The urns with the ballots will be opened during the plenary session of Thursday 10 June 2021, at 4 p.m. in Room 3. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u188	Madam President, I am obliged to ask for the opinion of the Federal Deontological Commission on the way things are going. You are no longer standing above the political groups here. You have put forward one interpretation, which was disputed, as the right one. You refused to consult your own services on this matter. I repeat, you refused to consult your own services on this matter. With this you assign them a manifest judgment of incompetence or unreliability. What is wrong with asking for an opinion when, as a neutral referee, you are faced with a difference of interpretation between majority and opposition? You have no alternative but to ask for the advice of the Court's legal services. Madam President, I am sorry because I have known you differently so far. However, if you cannot act as an objective referee, we must address you to another institution. I would therefore ask the Federal Deontological Commission to give an opinion on this manner of action. In my view, the composition of the delegation will go against the Rules of Procedure. We need to be clear about this before those involved can take up their duties.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u189	If you wish to seek the opinion of the Federal Ethics Commission, that is obviously possible. I would simply ask you to do so in the form of having 50 Members sign to support the request for advice to the Federal Ethics Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u190	Madam President, I did not intervene, although I think the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is quite clear. Mr. Laaouej explained to us that in the Conference of Presidents, as the Registrars had not said anything, this showed that they were valid for the interpretation of the application of Article 157. This seems to me to imply the expression of the clerks and the hierarchy of the Chamber's legal services. The debate is now closed. I do not want to reopen it, but I would like to submit a request. For next week's Conference of Presidents, could we obtain the opinion of the Registrars on the article to be applied in this context, in support of any case law? This point seems important to me for the future. I do not want today's incident to be able, in one sense or another, to link the future organization of this chamber beyond what the Rules really provide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u191	Mrs Pas, you wanted the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u192	Madam President, that is what I asked for on the next point. In any case, Mrs Fonck repeats what I have asked for a number of times, namely to clarify the issue with a legal note.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u193	I propose that you set up a new special joint parliamentary committee, Chamber-Senate, as part of the evaluation of state structures. I propose that a new special joint parliamentary committee be set up for the evaluation of our state structures. This special commission is set up without delay and is responsible for evaluating the institutional reforms implemented since 1970, with a view to identifying and exploring the possibilities of making the division of powers, the functioning of the institutions and the cooperation between the federal authority, the Communities and the Regions more efficient and effective. This special committee is set up without delay and is responsible for the evaluation of the political reforms since 1970, with a view to an inventory and an investigation into the more efficient and effective division of powers, the functioning of the institutions and cooperation between the federal government, the Communities and the regions. An evaluation of the previous reforms will provide a transparent, clear and clear overview. This means in concrete terms that the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the House and the Senate has three main tasks: 1. to draw up an objective inventory of the difficulties in the distribution of competences between the federal state and the federated entities which require a solution in the future; 2. assess these difficulties. The starting point and thread will be to know which authority is best able to exercise power and how best to organize the service rendered to citizens; 3. make proposals and/or recommendations to resolve these difficulties, without making any choice. The purpose of this exercise is, therefore, to allow for the homogeneity of powers and to render a service more effective and effective to the citizen in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and interpersonal solidarity. An evaluation of previous reforms will provide a transparent, sober and clear overview. In concrete terms, this means that the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Chamber and Senate has three major tasks: has: 1. making an objective inventory of the bottlenecks in the division of powers between the federal state and the Länder requiring a solution in the future; 2. evaluate these bottlenecks. This should provide guidance and the starting point for which government is best placed to exercise a competence and how the provision of services to citizens is best organised; 3. to formulate proposals and/or recommendations to resolve these bottlenecks without making choices. The aim of this exercise is therefore to enable homogeneous powers and to achieve a more efficient and effective service to citizens, while respecting the principles of subsidiarity and interpersonal solidarity. The Joint Parliamentary Committee is not intended to launch political negotiations for a new state structure. Its objective is to detect possible operational deficiencies and to formulate proposals for improved functioning. The Joint Parliamentary Committee does not aim to launch political negotiations for a new state structure. It aims to detect possible malfunctions in operation and to propose improvements in operation. In the course of its work, the Commission may be assisted by experts, officials and academicians, or by other civil society actors. The Committee may be assisted in its work by experts, officials and academics, or other civil society actors. The objective inventory of difficulties in the current distribution of competences and in the current functioning can be done in particular in writing on the basis of written notes and analyses and reports to be collected and exchanged. The federal government and the governments of the federated entities may also provide their inventories in writing. The collection of the objective inventory of bottlenecks in the current division of competence and operation can be done in writing in particular on the basis of notes and analyses collected and exchanged. The Federal Government and the Land governments may also provide their inventory in writing. This written procedure will allow the committee to have an in-depth exchange of views on the assessment of difficulties and proposals or recommendations to resolve them. This written procedure allows the committee to discuss in depth the assessment of bottlenecks and the proposals or recommendations to resolve these bottlenecks. The objective of this exchange of views will be to determine whether there are indeed malfunctions. If they so wish, members of the Commission may make recommendations or proposals to improve the functioning of the Commission. The committee may approve these suggestions. The purpose of this exchange of views is to verify whether there is a genuine malfunction. In doing so, members of the committee may make recommendations or proposals to improve the functioning of the committee if they so wish. The committee can support such suggestions. The Joint Parliamentary Committee will be chaired jointly by the Presidents of the House and the Senate, with a consultative voice. The Presidency belongs to the two Presidents of the Chamber and Senate, who are in an advisory capacity. The Joint Parliamentary Committee will be composed of 28 members (excluding chairpersons): - 14 members of the Chamber; - 14 members of the Senate. The Joint Parliamentary Committee will have 28 members (excluding the presidents): - 14 members of the Chamber; - 14 members of the Senate. I propose that the House delegation to the Special Committee be composed of 14 actual members and an equal number of alternates increased by one unit, in accordance with the system of proportional representation. The terms of reference of the Commission shall be as follows: I propose that the delegation of the Chamber within the special committee should be composed of 14 permanent members and an equal number of alternates, plus one unit, in accordance with the system of proportional representation. The mandates within the committee will be allocated as follows: N-VA: 3 staff / 4 alternates N-VA: 3 permanent members / 4 alternates Ecolo-Green: 2 staff / 3 alternates Ecolo-Green: 2 permanent members / 3 alternates PS: 2 staff / 3 alternates PS: 2 permanent members / 3 alternates VB: 1 staff / 2 alternates VB: 1 permanent member / 2 alternates MR: 1 staff / 2 alternates MR: 1 fixed member / 2 alternates CD&V: 1 staff / 2 alternates CD&V: 1 permanent member / 2 alternates PVDA-PTB: 1 staff / 2 alternates PVDA-PTB: 1 permanent member / 2 alternates Open VLD: 1 staff / 2 alternates Open VLD: 1 permanent member / 2 alternates Vooruit: 1 staff / 2 alternates Forward: 1 permanent member / 2 alternates cdH: 1 staff / 2 alternates cdH: 1 permanent member / 2 alternates Unrepresented or unrecognized groups may nominate one member in each delegation with an advisory vote. The unrepresented or unrecognised political groups may appoint a member to each delegation in an advisory capacity. In order to ensure the presence of all linguistic communities, the Senator of the Parliament of the German-speaking Community will be added to the delegation of the Senate with a consultative voice. In order to ensure the presence of all language communities, the senator will be added to the Senate delegation by an advisory vote from the German-speaking Community Parliament. The report must be submitted before December 2021, unless the deadline is extended by a decision of both Assemblies. The report should be submitted by December 2021, unless the deadline is extended by a decision of both Assembly. The Joint Parliamentary Committee may call upon experts within the limits and in the manner to be determined by the two Bureaux. The Centre of Expertise for Institutional Affairs of the Senate is already making its expertise available. The Joint Parliamentary Committee may call upon experts within the limits and in accordance with the detailed rules to be laid down by both Agencies. The Centre of Knowledge for the Institutional Affairs of the Senate makes its expertise available. The Joint Parliamentary Committee will adopt internal rules of procedure. The Joint Parliamentary Committee will adopt a regulation of internal operation. "Pas-d-d-observation"? Are you sure you don't mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u194	Madam President, there are some objections to the establishment of this Joint Committee. The committee's intention is not explicitly to make political proposals to replace the current unworkable state structure with something better. At least that would have been useful. However, the aim is only to detect possible shortcomings in the functioning of these current institutions. What planet do the traditional politicians, who are paid to deal with it professionally, live on when after so many years of mess and chaos they still have no idea and still have to look for possible flaws? Everyone knows by now that the institutions in this country are turning completely square. I don't know if I should laugh or cry. We have certainly made an assessment of the current state structure for a long time. It is very clear that after six state reforms it is not only completely unworkable because of its indescribable complexity, but it still does not give the Flemings the policy for which they have voted. The latter alone is not enough. There is no need for a parliamentary committee to establish this. We do need the political action to put an end to this. That is clearly not the purpose of this. I therefore fear that this committee will become yet another talk barracks whose political usefulness and relevance are floating around zero. Its creation will certainly not be supported by the Flemish Interest Group. It is clear from the memorandum establishing that Joint Committee that there is a very detailed reference to the coalition agreement. Everyone will no doubt remember what the three key words of that coalition agreement were. Those were respect, democracy and trust. We have just seen a very nice piece of respect, just with respect for the Rules of Procedure. Respect, democracy and trust are just three elements that are flagrantly contrary to the method of calculation invented to compile the committee. People have been very creative. A Belgian arithmetic is used for this composition, which is in fact completely contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber and also to the Rules of the Senate. It was clear from the previous discussion that the majority do not care very much that the Rules of Procedure are not being correctly applied, but if I follow Mr Laaouej's logic, then there is a great deal of disrespect. The groups were asked to comment on this composition and method of calculation so that it could be discussed at the Conference of Presidents. That is how I and some of my colleagues understood it. Mr Laaouej said in the previous discussion that if matters are not raised in the Conference of Presidents, this is a sign of implicit agreement. If I continue with this reasoning, I can assume that everyone will agree to my seven pages of comments, which I have passed on to the Conference of Presidents, because they have not even had the respect to reply to comments. First, the committee would have 24 members, but then there were smaller groups with only one representative. That had to be pulled up a little bit. It certainly should not be more than 28, because according to every representative representation based on system D'Hondt, whether the assembles are taken separately or together, the 29th seat always goes to the Flemish Interest. So we had to avoid that. So they took 28 and added a few more separately. Colleagues, the worst of all is that the number of mandates given to the various parties in that committee has been subject to a procedure which is clearly contrary to that proportional representation of those parties. However, the regulations determine that. A very detailed reference has just been made to Article 158, which applies this requirement of representative representation per assembly. Rule 13 of our Rules of Procedure deals with appointments for parliamentary conciliation committees, which also take place with a proportional distribution per assembly. Rule 68 of our Rules of Procedure concerns the Advisory Committee on European Affairs, to which the same applies. There, too, the proportional representation per assembly is regulated. Nowhere, not in the Senate's Rules of Procedure, not in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, is a representative representation provided for on the basis of the whole of the two assemblies together. That's new. That is why I asked the Conference of Presidents for a note from the Legal Service with precedents. That note from the Court's Legal Service showed that, except for one exception, this method has never been applied in all the history of this House. A representative representation according to the D'Hondt system was always used per assembly. That makes sense, because one can perfectly make the calculation to apply it to the whole. The distribution of the result, how many go to the Chamber and how much to the Senate, is purely arbitrary. That is not being explained now. I have the seven-page note. They didn't even have the respect to look at them or give them an answer. You are talking about political renewal, but it is clear that there are other things going on. The whole debate we have just had on the delegation also comes down to that, ladies and gentlemen: the mouth full of confidence, respect and democracy, but if you do not like the rules of democratic representativeness, you simply ignore them shamelessly. Respect? You are counting on respect for the electorate, without a shred of respect for the Rules of Procedure. Democracy? You move away from democratic objectives and correct distribution systems if you do not like the result. The most striking thing of all is that people say and regret that they do not have confidence in politics. Do you really think that this will restore the confidence of those who took part in the session today, or only last week, when votes were interrupted to demand urgency because there were no government members present, of the citizens who have just followed the debate, of those who look at its composition and see how creatively you are trying to exclude people? Is that what you mean by political renewal? Reclaiming confidence through creative calculation methods that ensure that the second largest party in the country is not yet the last polls, in which we are the largest one in 14 of the permanent representatives in the Chamber. Are you going to be explained? Will you explain to Deborah that, for example, the MR, accounting for 500,000 votes, has more representatives in that joint committee than a party of over 800,000 votes? How do you explain that to Deborah? Do you therefore expect to regain the voter's confidence? So stop turning things around and say that parties like mine feed anti-politics and are the breeding ground for anti-politics, when you do so yourself, just by behaving so childishly and taking out respect, trust and democracy when they are not to your liking. You can be sure that this will only reduce and reduce the public's confidence, which is confirmed after polling. Madam President, I would like to conclude with a message, because we are once again talking about a majority and opposition. As always, everything has been decked again behind the scenes. We will not be able to stop the issue. Nor will we be able to correct the method of calculation. The distortions of this whole creative calculation are not yet distorted enough to add people with a consultative voice to the question of distortions. However, I would like to send a message to those Members who think that all this is normal and that they are in favour of it. You can try to keep our representatives in these committees as small as possible with such creative Belgian methods of calculation. However, I can assure you that these efforts will not result in our voices sounding less loud. You may not want to hear 800,000 voters, but make no mistake: we will listen to him or her. This is what we do here in Parliament, and we will do it again in this useless committee, every sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u195	Madam Chair, today we have before us the establishment of this special chamber and Senate committee to evaluate the reforms of the state since 1970. The ambition is very broad and profound. I quote: "An evaluation of the previous reforms will provide an overview, transparent, lucid and clear". This means in concrete terms that the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the House and the Senate would have three main tasks. The first will be to make an objective inventory of the difficulties in the distribution of competences between the federal state and the federated entities. There's work to do. We're ambitious. This is probably one of the most ambitious committees in recent years. Just see what is happening now at CODECO level. We see Jan Jambon and Elio Di Rupo arguing about the opening time of the cafés. Did anyone understand anything? In Belgium, we can stay up to 10 p.m. inside. At 10:00, everyone's gonna have to come out on the terrace. On the terrace, we can stay until 11:30. If there's a Red Devil game starting at 9:00 p.m., the half-time will be at 9:45 p.m. At half-time, fans will come out of the coffee shop to find a place on the terrace. We're organizing chaos. It is on this point that we are fighting at the level of competence in Belgium. For the games we can watch outside, there will be a maximum of 400 people who can stand up. If beer is allowed, a maximum of 400 people will be seated. This is well known: the absence of beer makes the virus rise by 1.50 meters. After the game, it'll be 11:30. Then we can walk outside to 10 people. So, at 11:30 p.m., we can walk 10 on the street in Belgium, but at midnight, we go to three! I swear to you! Ladies and gentlemen, imagine everything we are going to have to discuss in this committee on competence. It's not over: you're three, but you're coming home four, because there's one that came out of the window... That's what we'll be seriously discussing in the Concertation Committee tomorrow. And we are here with this committee, mandated to go and summarize everything that is not going on in Belgium, because of completely fragmented powers. I must admit that I am enthusiastic about participating in this committee, which we have spoken about with my colleagues. There's work to do, but we're going to do all this without making any choices, trying to be neutral in the inventory of everything that goes on peanuts, and it's not going to be easy. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, you can count on our constructive provision in drawing up a list of all that is wrong. I would like to say that, in my opinion, if we were to recentralize all of this, it would be a little more effective, but I feel that I am already entering into controversy. I will not go any further, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u196	Madam President, I would like to begin by thanking you humbly for applying Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure for this committee. The D'Hondt system will still be used here, although it is wrong, but it is still D'Hondt. Article 157 shall not be applied here. You are not saying that we are going to decide on a majority against opposition. Thank you for giving us a number of places in this committee, Madam President. Seriously now. Ladies and gentlemen, there are challenges beyond legislative hours, generations and political topicality. Fortunately, when such challenges arise, something can be done, and that is working together over opposition and majority. One can find solutions that last longer than a few years. One can put points on the horizon, develop visions, see where one goes. We're lucky, because the motive of this government is cooperation. We're a team of 11 million Belgians, one more than the other. We're a team. We're all gonna work together. Then I guess it'll be fun in the Chamber, we'll finally be able to do something other than that political ticktock. We'll be able to work together. We can develop visions on those important themes that transcend years, legislatures and generations. I was just disappointed because it appears that this cooperation is only a thin layer of varnish when it comes to a very important issue such as sending people to the European Conference. The majority vote against the opposition will then be taken. I thought we were getting a rematch now. We'll talk about the State Reform Commission that's coming up. We had great hopes for this too, because they have been working on this for some time now. There have been talks in the Senate. The Conference of Presidents also asked for suggestions on the text for two or three weeks. They even asked for the comments to be made by Tuesday evening, so that we could discuss and work together on Wednesday. We would work together, make the text better and take steps forward. What turned out to be a week later? Nothing! We had done our best, notes with suggestions written before Tuesday evening, so that the majority who could certainly consult, with respect for the majority consultation and so that we could have the debate on it in the Conference of Presidents. But there was only silence, nothing. We wondered whether the debate might then be held at the next Conference of Presidents, a week later, which we were confirmed. A week later, the Conference of Presidents meets again. We were finished with our notes, enthusiastically, to finally enter into the debate on cooperation in an important dossier. The institutional is the trophy par excellence of CD&V in this government. Again there was silence, nothing, no debate between majority and opposition. It simply took note and moved on to the next point. We had to ask the President-in-Office whether we should understand the silence if the majority were not prepared to join us in the Conference, so that everything had to be discussed in plenary. Even that question didn't really come up with an answer. So we had to come up with what was meant to be. That's why we're here now. That is why we must now debate this committee publicly, because you seem to prefer it. I'm truly sorry about that. Those who promise cooperation, who set the bar high, can also satisfy the expectations. Soit, there's a text in front of it now. Let us talk about this. It concerns the establishment and composition of a special joint parliamentary committee. I always find it funny when it says "special," because I always wonder what's special. I have often reread the text, but unfortunately I have not found at all what is so special about that committee. When reading that text, I see only one thing: typical Belgian. There is nothing special about it, I note that it is just typical Belgian, both in approach and in the posts. Take a look at the mail. The Rules of Procedure contain clear agreements on the allocation of posts. It's called respect for democracy. In a normal democracy, this happens as follows. Elections are taking place. We determine what the voters want and that works. Mrs Pas has just spoken about this in detail, but you do not. I am very sorry to say that I am not surprised by that, because I think it is typical Belgian that you do not respect the election results. Apparently, you want to immediately refuel that typical Belgian mentality in your special committee for state reform. It is also striking that there are extra posts for the liberals. It seems that once again we have managed to create a number of real members, half members and co-opted members, and when we look at the whole puzzle, we see that there are additional posts for the liberals. Some will say that this is proof that the committee is special, but that is above all proof that the committee is typically Belgian: some look at the content, but others prefer to take out some extra mandates, especially if it does not respect the result of the election. What is still typical Belgian and particularly regrettable is that the majority does not seem to think it is sufficiently important to give the German speakers a full vote in committee. The German-speaking Community will be allowed to give advice only because it happens to be represented by someone from the MR, who does not want to take him on board, because the party will then be able to take an extra liberal post. The German-speaking Community is the victim of this. This government and its majority do not seem to think it is important enough to give the German-speaking Community a proper voice within the system in the debate on future cooperation in our country. I find that particularly regrettable, but also typical Belgian. We see this not only in the post office, but also in the approach. A major analysis will be carried out and all problems will be identified, but the Flemish Parliament is already working on this. It has already held a lot of hearings on this subject, and it maps out all the inefficiencies. Your exercise mainly creates the impression that you do not want to be heard by the Flemish Parliament and that you also want a little sunlight, because you represent Belgium. That does not surprise me, because, again, that too is typical Belgian. What is also typical of Belgium is that you set up something that nobody knows exactly who will do what. What will this committee do? I read out the third point: 'The Joint Parliamentary Committee does not aim to launch political negotiations for a new state structure. There will be an analysis without making choices." So no choices are made. But in the second point, it says that you are going to evaluate the bottlenecks, with guidance on which government is the most appropriate to exercise the power. In one point you say that you will certainly not choose which government is the most appropriate to do something and in the other you say the opposite and you will indicate which government is the most appropriate to develop a particular competence. So you do not even know what the objective of your own committee is. How in God's name should people in this country have faith that you have a vision of the goal to be pursued with this country, if you do not even know where to go with your committee? I might be surprised, but I fear, ladies and gentlemen, that it is typically Belgian. I'm sorry about that. We find this particularly regrettable because it could also be different. Such a committee should not symbolise the old, complex, inefficient Belgium where no one wants to work together and the French-speaking people have far too much to say. This committee could correctly opt for more democracy, for more efficiency, for more cooperation. It could also make that clear from the outset in its composition, objective and approach. You could, in the composition, show respect for the election results and apply the D'Hondt system. Apparently, you do not have the courage to engage fully in the debate. You could also work correctly around the content. There are super interesting yards on the shelf. Last Monday there was a wonderful piece of opinion by Hilde Crevits, the Flemish Minister of Work in De Tijd. She wonders where we stand with the corona crisis and what the future looks like. Then she writes: "That's why I'm reaching out to my federal colleagues to set up and make possible asymmetrical collaborations. With asymmetrical collaborations, we can respond to different regional market conditions within the existing powers." So Mrs Crevits herself points the way. But you choose the path of lost time, because we're gonna wear our pants out. We are going to do double the work already done in the Flemish Parliament, and we do not even know what point is on the horizon. Mrs Crevits shows where the Chamber can spend its time usefully and efficiently, and within a time you want. You want a report that would have been completed by the end of this year. Well, then let's take those months to do just what Mrs Crevits is asking. Let us look at how federal policy areas can be used in a useful way so that the Länder can pursue a policy, so that more people can get started and we can effectively organise the revival after the corona crisis. You could ask why, for God's sake, we should listen to the Flemish Minister of Work, but she is simply quoting your own federal government agreement. Mrs Crevits did not invent this; your own federal government agreement states that you will work towards these asymmetric policy models. This would make you change effectively and not waste our time on theoretical models when you do not know where we will end up with them. It's not a matter of wearing out our pants and seeing where we come from. We can use our time to bring real change to people's lives now, not only after 2024 or even after 2030, as Mr Coens sometimes suggests. At the same time, we can also make our social security more social and secure. This could have been a special committee. The title already goes into this: the special committee on state reform. It could have been and there is still a chance, but then you have to switch from the slogans to reality. You must not only say that you are going to work together but that you are going to do so effectively. You should not press a note here against opposition, but effectively engage in dialogue with us on this issue. We can then work together to improve this, which may even exceed the legislative hours. You say you want to do that, but you don't. You say you do not abuse your majority until appointments have to be made. You say that you want to work together for the state reform, until the mandate of that committee needs to be aligned. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are serious about what you are saying, you will have to tap out of another vessel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it will not surprise you that I do not agree with the statements made by the previous speakers. I welcome and take note of the enthusiasm of Mr Hedebouw to participate in this committee. I think that this committee can bring added value because history teaches us that we leave tensions between north and south in our country all too often and rot, that we then go to the electorate with demands, without even having to consult each other once, and then startle when we sit around the table after the elections and notice that we are nowhere and that we often have to negotiate hundreds of days in order to reach an agreement in the end. In order to do this more efficiently, we need to be better prepared in terms of content and, if possible, politically. I think that's what this committee is trying to do. One can be somewhat derogatory about the name of this committee, which is actually simply referring to regulatory provisions. We have standing committees, temporary committees and special committees. This is a special committee, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We'll involve the Senate. Of course, that has its reasons. At the time, as a special legislator, we gave the Senate a special competence in relation to the Constitution and the reform of the state, but above all as a consultative chamber between the various Communities. He is represented by Land MPs. Consequently, by allowing the combination of MPs and senators, it is possible for the Länder to be involved in these discussions and consultations in this Joint Committee. The final part, the role of this committee is to knock everything off. I may be in breach of the secret of the discussions at the Conference of Presidents, but I believe that Mr Loones will agree with me that the last political compromises, which must be made in any reform of a state structure, however they may appear, will be concluded in a smaller circle. That's where the very last buttons are cut. I do think it is important that the preparatory work is done. I shall comment on the comments you have made in your written note. If the first assignment is to make an objective inventory of bottlenecks, then it may be perfect that you experience something as a bottleneck and I do not, or less. When we make an inventory, we make an inventory, and when we make an inventory, we make a complete inventory. Then it may be perfect that there are several bottlenecks on which we agree with many, and that will also have to be reported in that inventory. I mean, that's the way it's supposed to be. If there is diversity, this diversity is also interpreted and acted on. That's how it's supposed to be, I think. The same applies to the evaluations. That is also one of the reasons why we say that we are suggesting proposals and recommendations of possible solutions. But it may be perfect that some of the recommendations of one group will be different from those of the other. But at least we'll know about each other, and maybe we'll try to grow together. You also asked whether the representatives of the minister, or the minister himself, could be present on this committee. Our Rules of Procedure provide that a special committee may request that these representatives be present. The Rules of Procedure allow that. Ministers may even ask to be present. The Rules of Procedure allow this too. But let me be very transparent about that. I would find it absurd if we did not draw on the expertise that is present in the two cabinets during our work. There is a precedent in this respect. In the course of the sixth state reform and the relevant legislation, the then negotiating parties concluded an agreement on the Senate. They then agreed that further work could be carried out in the Senate and further agreements could be made. That is what the then Senate did together with the two State Secretarys responsible at the time. So I was present at those talks and so were you. It therefore seems logical to me that this should be done because it can be an added value for the committee. In this way, I largely respond to reservations that you have expressed in writing and which I express orally and which do not call for the text before me to be amended. As it should be, the larger groups are represented to a greater extent than the smaller groups. However, Madam President, the whole thing is a balanced part. I therefore invite Members to approve the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u198	Madam President, Mr Verherstraeten, I would like to ask a few specific questions. You are the only one who will at least go into the substance of the notes we have provided, which I regret to say from no other member of the majority. However, there are still a number of questions to which I have not received any answers, in particular as regards the composition of the committee. You say that it is in line with the way in which special committees are usually composed. I've already been a member of several special committees, overlapping with Chamber and Senate. I also requested that list. The proportional composition per assembly was examined each time. Now she's being watched on the whole thing. We have received a substantial note from the Senate with the two possible methods: either all members of parliament and senators are grouped together or worked with a weighted version or a percentage version, first the number of senators is artificially raised and the number of members of parliament is artificially brought down, then put together and apply the D'Hondt system to it. The Senate's note does not even make it clear whether the second or the third method was applied. I asked for clarity, but I didn't get it. However, the difference between the method that has always been used and the method that is being applied today is clear. Perhaps entirely coincidentally, the latter method results in a less seat for Flemish Interest for the benefit of the cdH. If it is claimed here that this is the normal course of action for special committees, I would have liked to know on which Rule of the Rules of Procedure you are based. I didn't find an article like that. On the contrary, all the examples I have found speak of a representative representation per assembly, and that gives a very different end result in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u199	Madam President, I did not intend to ask for the floor, but I would like to do so as a result of what Mr Loones said. Mr Loones spoke about the content, but his explanation was too cynical and too negative to my liking, and I do not really understand that. I've noticed that tone all afternoon, by the way. We have started a whole debate on the Rules of Procedure, which contests the fact that a President interprets a Rules of Procedure. We want to ask for a legal opinion because we do not believe the President's interpretation. I believe that a word from a President may also have a certain value in a discussion. Mr De Roover, you say 'your President', but that is a vote of no confidence in the neutrality of the President of the Chamber. You don't listen to the facts anymore, you contest them in advance. If there is one member here no longer objective, it is you, because you already contest the President's judgment beforehand. The fact that the President of the Chamber interprets the Rules of Procedure is obviously sufficient for you to reject it. Mr Loones, I have actually asked for the floor because I would like to address you. With what is now going on, we are taking the initiative to set up a joint committee of Chamber Senate to modernise our government and make our structure and public institutions more efficient. We are ambitious with the Vivaldic coalition in that regard. It's also in the coalition agreement. That is a big difference from the previous period of government. You have never shown such ambition with your government, Mr Loones. However, I thought you were in the party that would want to change a lot. With the government today and our coalition agreement, we say that we will evaluate and assess what the bottlenecks used to be. Mr Hedebouw has listed some of them as I could never. He knows the corona measures much better than I do, or he spent hours studying them. Actually, I think it's gonna be that last one. I just want to say that the installation of the Joint Committee is a commendable initiative. From a party like yours I would have expected to see and hear some sympathy for the initiative taken by the current government and never taken by the previous government. The contribution of the N-VA to all the state reforms that the country has experienced is quite easy to sum up, Mr Loones. I don't mean to offend you, but everyone knows the answer. We take such an initiative, quite shortly after the formation of the government. There will, of course, be further initiatives. The modernisation, efficiency and deepening of our democracy are commendable. Besides, we won't do that alone. The Joint Committee may be assisted by experts and by civil society. It will be a valid exercise to define and evaluate the bottlenecks. Not only that, it will also examine a number of scenarios and possible solutions to remedy the bottlenecks. Work is being done here, progress will be made here. Mr Loones, your speech was completely negative. I regret that, and I do not understand it, all the more so because it comes from the party you represent. Let me give you an example of how you make a caricature of this. You say that the federal level should not exercise over the modernisation of our state structure and the increase in efficiency, because, as you say, Flanders is already doing so. That's your opinion. That doesn't make any sense, and that's not our opinion. You see that as a point of criticism. We are very different in that respect. Your criticism doesn't make any sense at all. In addition, you should point out that the Presidents of the Chamber and Senate are involved and play a certain role. And then what? Isn't that normal? Isn't it right for the Presidents of Chamber and Senate to pull the process a little? They have the experience, they also have the function to play a certain role in it. That wasn't good for you either, it was all negative. Then I would like to talk about the distribution of seats, of 14 each. We have received a list on the distribution of seats and the composition of a number of similar initiatives in the past. That seat allocation was never uniform. That one time there were ten members and now there are fourteen plus fourteen. One can always see his downside in that to disqualify the whole exercise, but I regret that. I think there is more positive to say about the creation of the Joint Committee on Chamber and Senate than the negative, which you stress.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u200	Mr De Vriendt, first of all, a few weeks ago I was asked by a French-speaking journalist whether I believe the President of the Chamber is impartial, neutral and well-functioning. The journalist referred to the fact that she had supported the majority and sanctioned an opposition member. I replied at that time that I think she is doing well and that she is doing her job neutrally. So, Mr De Vriendt, I have publicly confirmed that I believe that the President is performing her duties correctly. You'll have to forgive me, but I think something has changed today. The president did not consider it appropriate to seek advice from her legal service, while there was a very clear discussion between majority and opposition. If you say today that I personally have a number of questions with the Presidency, I have to confirm that since today. That might explain a point. Secondly, you are surprised that we do not have a little more sympathy for the proposal. You regret that we do not have any more sympathy for that. I would very much like to have a great deal of sympathy for that. The subject is one of the reasons why I do politics. It is why I am committed to society, also here in Parliament, because I believe that this country has very great institutional challenges. I would very much like to be sympathetic and voluntarist with regard to the proposal, but I note that you do not want to do so. We just can't give in. I have at least the impression that the text will shortly be adopted unchanged, majority against opposition. Thirdly, Mr De Vriendt, in your view, I would have said that the Chamber and the national federal Parliament should not analyse efficiency. I didn't say that. My point was that, in this country, parliaments might not be the best way to get in the way of each other. This can be perfectly organized. We can now perfectly leave the room for the Flemish Parliament to do this exercise first and to map out the inefficiencies. Once it has finished its work, normally at the end of the year, the exercise can be continued and deepened here. My proposal is to get that level to do its job first and then work on it further. Then we can see if any additional information will be obtained from it. Meanwhile, we can win in parallel for about six months. We can use this time usefully, for example, by examining how we will conduct asymmetric policies with the federal government, in order to implement its coalition agreement, so that we do not do any duplication of work in the same period. This is a very positive proposal: to ensure that one parliament does not run away from another. How do we proceed in concrete terms? Mr Verherstraeten, in particular, has given a number of substantive answers. In the end, he said that his answers did not require a change in the text. That, of course, is not entirely correct. In his answers he de facto deviated from what is in the text for an important piece. We do not know whether the other majority parties are giving the same reading as Mr Verherstraeten. Fortunately, we are sitting in a parliament and a parliament has procedures to resolve that, namely amendment. We have the opportunity to refine the text by means of amendments and to ensure that there is cooperation on the positions of the majority or opposition, so that the mandate, in this case a committee, can be adjusted. There are three points on which the texts should be amended very clearly if I include Mr Verherstraeten's words. For example, a change in the mandate is needed. Secondly, the text states that there is a guiding principle and that a choice will have to be made for the most appropriate authority to exercise a competence. But according to Mr Verherstraeten that is actually not correct. He said there should be no guidance, because no choices are made. I suppose we can somehow apply an amendment logic to adjust the second point in the note. I also asked what we should mean by an objective inventory. Mr Verherstraeten and I give the same interpretation, for which I thank him, in particular that the inventory must by definition be exhaustive. That is his reading, that is my reading, but that is not what the text says. I don't know if the other parties fill that out in the same way. Madam President, does this mean that we also have to table an amendment here to clarify what the inventory is exactly? Finally, on the basis of the answers we have received, we need more certainty about the presence of the government. The Rules of Procedure provide for the possibility of asking ministers to be present, but I understand from Mr Verherstraeten's statement of intent that it is expected that the government or the cabinet will be there. I think that we should also anchor this in the text, so that we are sure that this applies to all the ministers involved. I am thinking, for example, of Minister Clarinval, who is also responsible for institutional reform, because we have not yet heard any commitment from the MR Group. In any case, that applies to all ministers. If, for example, we analyse health policy, I hope that someone from the cabinet of Minister Vandenbroucke or the minister himself will be present. In this respect, I think it is necessary to amend the text. We could have done that perfectly during a dialogue at the Conference of Presidents. That was the agreed procedure, but I note that the majority parties did not want to conduct that dialogue in the Conference of Presidents, in a closed spirit of cooperation. We are therefore forced to do so here. I will be very positive about the exercise, Mr De Vriendt. If the mandates are distributed correctly, if there are guarantees about the direction in which they are working, if there is assurance that the opposition will really be heard and there will be no filtering if inventories are to be made, and if the government is really involved, then a context of cooperation really will be created. You then show very literally that you are not merely presenting and pushing through a text of the majority, but that you want to work together and that you will take into account what the opposition says. That's positivity. If you do, I will push the green button with great enthusiasm and smile, but the ball is in your camp.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u201	Mr De Vriendt, I have just asked the question to the other majority colleague and I have still not received an answer. You say that we should not be negative, and that the comments on the composition of the committee are really only incidental and unjustified, but I would like to have an answer to that. You say that the composition sometimes varies, sometimes it is 10 members, sometimes it is 11 members, now it is 14. That's right. The number varies and I am not surprised that, now that the traditional parties are smaller, the number is higher than average. Contrary to what you say, the same system is not always used. In the past, however, the D'Hondt system has always been applied to the delegation of the Chamber, never to the whole, always to the delegation of the Chamber. Can you explain to me why this is suddenly being applied to the whole and then split it arbitraryly between Kamen and Senate? The only explanation, in my view, is that this method is based on one representative less of the Flemish Interest. Convince me on the contrary, convince me that there is a reason why one suddenly deviates from what has always been done in the past and what is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Then I'll consider being a little less negative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u202	Madam President, I am, of course, sticking to what I said earlier. We agree on a large part, but not on the method. I do not think that this will require amendments. You haven't heard anyone contradict me either. I could not have answered the last point, Mr Pas. I'll do that now. The composition of a committee is always arbitrary. This committee has been taken very widely to involve as many political groups as possible, as a state reform with a two-thirds majority will have to be carried out later. The choice between counting separately or adding together is the consequence of the fact that the cdH fraction is also involved. Well, I'm here for that. I support that choice. I want to involve all the groups as much as possible in the hope that we can take steps closer to a more efficient state structure in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u203	Madam President, like my colleague, I will not make big statements on the Red Devil matches and on the terraces, because I know much less about this aspect of things. On the other hand, when we see the loss of time and efficiency in managing the health crisis, and especially on the health side, it is essential to reflect on our institutional organization and its limitations. It is true that today it is a text proposed by the majority, and we are obviously going to invest in this committee. Allow me, however, to make a few comments in connection with this text. For us, this work must clearly be done without taboos – you may be of the same opinion – and be guided by concerns of efficiency, coherence, visibility, solidarity and responsibility. If I insist that this work must be carried out without taboo, it is because the Vivaldi coalition's government agreement contains lines that have been drawn and that we do not share, not only because this agreement dares not mention any possible re-federalizations, but also because the agreement of the Vivaldi coalition already prejudges that the homogenization of health skills must go in the direction of federalization and greater regionalization. This is a point of the government agreement that we will not support at all. If the work in this committee is to be done without taboo, it means that it must, by definition, be done independently of what the Vivaldi majority has already drawn up in its government agreement. It's a job that needs to be done seriously. You have made the choice of a very tight timing since you have planned the completion of the work by the end of 2021, even though it is true that the duration of the work of this committee is prolonged. In any case, given the amount of time we have left by the end of this year, it will be difficult, if not inconceivable, to work seriously. In fact, it will not only be necessary to work with experts, but also to take full account of the reality of the field which must live in the operational with an institutional organisation that does not fit into reality. That is why I believe that, in order to do a serious job, it will take more than a few months. As far as composition is concerned, a lot has been said here. Should we recall some elements of history? I am thinking in particular of the Joint Chamber-Senate Committee which was set up in 1989 and which was linguistically equal. It is a pity that this is not the case in this committee. However, linguistic parity would have demonstrated the will of the largest community in our country to reach out to the minority community. This is all the more true since the imbalance between the two language groups may be significant depending on the choices made by the Ecolo-Groen and PTB-PVDA groups. In fact, we will find ourselves in a configuration in which, apart from the two presidents, one being Dutch-speaking and the other French-speaking, this joint commission will count 16 to 18 Dutch-speaking for 10 to 12 French-speaking. We are therefore very far from the configuration of the 1989 Joint Chamber-Senate Commission. As I said, we are going to invest in this commission. Madam President, there is a lot of work to be done. A lot! I hope that it will allow – I repeat – a work without any taboo, regardless of the agreement of the majority at the institutional level and an effective work with a wide listening both to experts and to the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u204	Are there still any interventions on this point? [[(Non]] ) All expressions could be heard. That will be the case. It is thus decided. The following names were communicated by the presidents of the political groups: The following names were communicated by the chairmen of the political groups: N-VA Actual 1. Peter De Roover 2. Sander Loones 3. Tomas Roggeman alternates 1. Sigrid Goethals 2. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh 3. Kathleen Depoorter 4. Björn Anseuw Ecolo-Green effectifs 1. Kristof Calvo 2. Gilles Vanden Burre alternates 1. Claire Hugon 2. Nicolas Parent 3. Stefaan Van Hecke PS Actual 1. Khalil Aouasti 2. Leslie Leoni alternates 1. André Flahaut 2. Ahmed Laaouej 3. Laurence Zanchetta VB Actual 1. Barbara Not alternates 1. Marijke Dillen 2. Katleen Bury MR Actual 1. Philippe Goffin alternates 1. Kattrin Jadin 2. Marie-Christine Marghem CD&V Actual 1. Servais Verherstraeten alternates 1. Nathalie Muylle 2. Koen Geens PVDA-PTB Actual 1. Roberto D'Amico alternates 1. Marco Van Hees 2. Raoul Hedebouw Open Vld Actual 1. Patrick Dewael alternates 1. Egbert Lachaert 2. Maggie De Block Vooruit Actual 1. Melissa Depraetere alternates 1. Joris Vandenbroucke 2. Ben Segers cdH Actual 1. Catherine Fonck alternates 1. Vanessa Matz 2. Josy Arens N-VA Permanent members 1. Peter De Roover 2. Sander Loones 3. Tomas Roggeman alternates 1. Sigrid Goethals 2. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh 3. Kathleen Depoorter 4. Björn Anseuw Ecolo-Green Permanent members 1. Kristof Calvo 2. Gilles Vanden Burre alternates 1. Claire Hugon 2. Nicolas Parent 3. Stefaan Van Hecke PS Permanent members 1. Khalil Aouasti 2. Leslie Leoni alternates 1. André Flahaut 2. Ahmed Laaouej 3. Laurence Zanchetta VB permanent member 1. Barbara Pas alternates 1. Marijke Dillen 2. Katleen Bury MR permanent member 1. Philippe Goffin alternates 1. Kattrin Jadin 2. Marie-Christine Marghem CD&V permanent member 1. Servais Verherstraeten alternates 1. Nathalie Muylle 2. Koen Geens PVDA-PTB permanent member 1. Roberto D'Amico alternates 1. Marco Van Hees 2. Raoul Hedebouw Open Vld permanent member 1. Patrick Dewael alternates 1. Egbert Lachaert 2. Maggie De Block Come on, let's go. permanent member 1. Melissa Depraetere alternates 1. Joris Vandenbroucke 2. Ben Segers cdH permanent member 1. Catherine Fonck alternates 1. Vanessa Matz 2. Josy Arens Members with consultative voice: Deficit François De Smet Members with a consultative vote: Deficit François De Smet Since the number of candidates corresponds to the number of places to be filled, I declare the candidates nominated elected pursuant to rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of applications corresponds to the number of places to go, I declare the candidates elected in accordance with Rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. We have contacted the Prime Minister and he is available to join us in the next few minutes. Therefore, we should not vote on your motion and we should not consider that your inquiry filed requesting the presence of the Prime Minister in session is being dealt with today. If you wish, of course you can, but I believe that it was the intention to hear the Prime Minister today. You've filed an interview.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u205	I understand the Prime Minister will be here at 9:00 p.m. That's in three minutes and 20 seconds. You know the flexibility of my group. We will be happy to give him that space and we welcome him immediately for this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-03-definitief-55-plenair-ip107x.u206	I suggest that you suspend the meeting for five minutes. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting Thursday, June 3, 2021 at 9:02 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday, 3 June 2021 at 21.02 a.m.
