ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u1	Mrs Sneppe, as regards the PCR tests carried out by the laboratories, a number of laboratories can indeed determine the CT values that show whether a PCR test is weakly positive, positive, strongly positive or very strongly positive. However, Sciensano does not receive more than 30% of that information for all PCR results. As Sciensano receives only one third of the information and the data are not representative of the overall epidemiological situation in Belgium because of their incompleteness, neither the reports nor the dashboard with dynamic graphs show them. Nevertheless, even though they are not published by Sciensano, they are analysed and used, including for the evaluation of the epidemiological situation. Although not included in the epidemiological reports, the presentation of the number of positive tests and cases is correct and relevant and reflects the current epidemiological situation. After all, a period of time between a first and second positive test is taken into account before the second positive test is considered a possible re-infection. That period of time of 90 days is based on an opinion of the RAG of 29 March 2021 which states that an interval of at least 90 days is necessary to consider a second positive PCR test as a possible re-infection. Doubles are thus removed on the basis of the national registry number when the person already tested positive in the previous 90 days. In that case, only the first positive result shall be retained within that period. This means that people who are tested through screening, for example for a journey, and not because of symptoms or because they are a high risk contact and thus again positive testing, for example through a previous infection, are not included in the statistics if the infection occurred within the previous three months. So they are not included in our reports or the dashboard. The number of cases presented in the reports and the dashboard correctly reflects the overall epidemiological situation, because even if a test proves weakly positive, it is not counted if the infection occurred within 90 days. In addition, travellers who have contracted infection in the previous three months may receive a COOVID-19 certificate of repair and therefore do not have to be tested for their journey. For the reasons cited, the number of cases mentioned in the reports is therefore not overestimated and the situation is correctly reflected, despite the fact that the CT values are not included in the reports because corrections, such as deletion of doubles, are applied to the data.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u2	Minister, your answer was clear, but how is it that only a third of the labs can pass on the CT values? After a year and a half of testing, one would think that all this has been synchronized and that all the labs can do that in the meantime. A third is very little after all. Can you answer that question or do I put a follow-up question? After all, it does not seem to me efficient, especially after a year and a half of testing, that we can still fine tune only one third of the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u3	Would you like to comment on that, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u4	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u5	Minister, if questions remain pending for a while, they are sometimes partially answered before they can be asked. My question is largely no longer relevant. However, I would just like to check whether safeguarding hospital capacity is still the most important element of crisis management. If that is not the case, can you indicate which element it is?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u6	You had a whole series of questions and I'll go over them all. First, I confirm that the number of hospitalisations per province is available on the Epistat COVID-19 dashboard. That is also updated daily. Secondly, safeguarding hospital capacity remains essential. Despite the high vaccination rate and the proper functioning of the vaccines, the protection is not 100 %. Furthermore, there are still unvaccinated vulnerable people. Therefore, it is important to control the circulation of the virus. You also asked me if I would plead for local measures to be taken in the case of local flare-ups. We have been working for some time on the transition from acute risk management to proactive risk management, addressing local outbreaks. The NCCN has developed a procedure for this purpose in consultation with FOD Public Health, the regional health authorities, Sciensano, the GEMS, the Coronac Commissioner and the governors. As far as the monitoring of waste water is concerned, I can tell you that at the moment the monitoring of waste water does not play any role in the detection of clusters. This is not feasible, as the current monitoring of waste water in its global national form follows large population groups with generally more than 50,000 inhabitants. There is therefore no point in testing 50,000 people. It is a global surveillance, which allows us to follow the trends in the circulation of the virus. This is something other than a more localized surveillance, which would, at least theoretically, make it possible to detect infection sites. Such a more localised surveillance could be considered on the basis of an adapted surveillance plan, which would rather be managed at regional or local level, or by monitoring in more restricted areas where appropriate, however, its technical and economic feasibility should be validated, either by monitoring the waste water leaving buildings of interest, such as schools or nursing homes. Such initiatives have been taken in Flanders and Wallonia and can be developed if necessary, if feedback is positive. Our Walloon partners informed us of their initiative, which was to have been launched some time ago for a more localized succession of an area near Namur. However, I have not yet received any feedback on this issue. Waste water could probably play a role in the local measures, although this indicator alone does not weigh enough. It should at least be supplemented by the other existing indicators as a precautionary measure. We have little experience with this instrument and remain cautious. The appropriation of the instrument by the experts in the coming weeks will shed more light on the issue. However, we believe that it will help to some extent to take local measures, for example when we see a much greater increase in the virus in waste water in, for example, the region of Antwerp-South than in the region of Antwerp-North.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u7	Mr President, Minister, I may have misread the question. After all, you indicate that hospital capacity is still very important. That's my opinion, too. However, my question was rather whether this capacity is still the only element of importance when we assess the gravity of the situation. Today, I have the impression that more attention is being paid to the number of infections that are reported, but less to the capacity of hospitals. It is also important in the context of the discussion we had earlier today on when to ask for a coronabarometer and for clear indicators that indicate, for example, when the federal phase can end. I have the impression that it is not entirely clear when we can talk about the end of the pandemic. So my question was rather directed in that direction. I just wanted to ask you if safeguarding hospital capacity is still the only criterion for you? If not, what other factors are involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u8	What you're saying surprises me a little, but of course that's an impression. Personally, I do not feel that we now attach more importance to infections than to hospitalizations. I think we should always look at a dashboard of indicators: hospital admissions, throughput to ICU, infections by age categories... I think that in the current circumstances of a country where vaccination rates are already very high, one should look at infections differently than a year ago. I'm not inclined to say that we would consider infections more important now than a year ago. I think we might be looking more at hospitalizations than we did a year ago, but that remains a nuanced story.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u9	I do not know if you have an answer to this, Minister, but when do you think that the federal phase should end? Do you have a clear picture of that yourself?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u10	(...) the situation is that, without federal measures, we can manage the crisis sufficiently, or let us say, the epidemiological situation. That is, of course, a very broad answer. This should be based on an evaluation of the RAG. As the figures are now evolving, there will probably no longer be a need to activate the pandemic law when we are past the stage in which we use the ministerial decision. However, this is always a judgment that must be made at the time when it is felt, on the basis of the epidemiological situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u11	Okay, thank you. Indeed, that is a little clearer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u12	Minister, there are about 160,000 users of the medicine Montelukast in our country, of which 39,000 are minors. The package leaflet warns of side effects that may sometimes occur. However, studies show that adverse reactions are more common than expected. Therefore, two Flemish doctors propose to link the reimbursement of the medicine to certain conditions. Minister, are you aware of the problem? Did the company contact you or the doctors themselves? Will you link actions to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u13	Minister, as we have heard, Montelukast is a medicine for asthma and allergies. It is a prescribed treatment for nearly 160,000 Belgians, of whom 39,000 are under the age of 18. I'm not going to go back to the serious side effects we're seeing. The problem was raised by a general practitioner at the KU Leuven. Minister, my questions are as follows. Have these side effects been demonstrated in other recent studies? Has INAMI provided any feedback on the possibility of adjusting the reimbursement of this treatment? Are there safer alternatives to patient health? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u14	Minister, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u15	Mr President, I am aware of the problem, which is not new. The risks are currently clearly described in the package leaflet. In May 2020, in the framework of the Direct Healthcare Professional Communication, another letter was sent to the doctors to remind them of these risks of neuropsychiatric side effects of Montelukast. This communication stated, among other things: "The patients, parents, caregivers should be informed about the risk of neuropsychiatric adverse reactions during treatment with Montelukast and the need to inform their physician in the event of: changes in behaviour and mood, anxiety, agitation, suicidal ideation and suicide attempts, (...) If such disturbances occur, prescribers should carefully reevaluate the benefit-risk ratio of continued treatment with Montelukast and, if necessary, set up an appropriate follow-up." It is, of course, the responsibility of the prescriber to read this information and, if necessary, to adjust the treatment of his patient accordingly. There is currently no procedure for a safety signal at the European Medicines Agency EMA for Montelukast. By a signal, I mean any information about a new or a known side effect that may be caused by a medicinal product for which further evaluation is required. I will take the initiative to examine, together with the Commission's Agency for Medicinal Products and the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, whether an adjustment of the fee rules for Montelukast is appropriate. If it becomes apparent that an adjustment is necessary, the Agency will propose to the Commission Meeting of Medicines to initiate a procedure to adapt the fee rules for Montelukast. Ms. Zanchetta also asked whether there were safer alternatives to patient health. Montelukast is an antagonist of leucotriene receptors. Asthma is indicated as a maintenance treatment, and as an alternative to inhaled corticosteroids in light forms, for example in cases of intolerance or contraindications to CSI, inhaled corticosteroids, and as a complementary treatment in more severe forms. In patients who take it, Montelukast may have a favourable effect on the symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis. Montelukast is the only antagonist of leucotriene receptors licensed and marketed in Belgium. In mild forms of asthma, an alternative to Montelukast may be the inhalation of an ISC or a specialty combining an ISC with a long-acting beta-2-mimetic; in more severe forms of asthma, an alternative may be the use of a triple therapy combining a long-acting beta-2-mimetic with an ISC and a long-acting anticholinergic. In jargon, we're talking about a LABA and a LAMA associated with a CSI.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u16	Minister, you have pointed out that leukotriene antagonists are taking a rather specific place in the treatment of asthma. They already have a history. They were once marketed as some kind of miracle cure, and then a lot of Montelukast was sold. Over the years, it has been shown that the effectiveness is slightly smaller than that of inhaled corticosteroids. I think we should not exaggerate the fear of inhaled corticosteroids when they are really necessary to control the condition of patients, even if they are children, in combination with beta-2 mimetics, as you say. But it is very important that we examine whether those neurological consequences are not too common. I am therefore pleased with your answer, in which you say that you are going to examine it and see whether this reimbursement can only be guaranteed in a second line, and whether certain guarantees or follow-up techniques should be provided for patients when they are prescribed. Because it must be possible for the parents to detect the side effects. In a child it is not always obvious to do that detection on time, hence its importance. I'm sure we'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u17	Minister, thank you for your precise answer. I am delighted to learn that there are alternatives – you mentioned them, even though we are talking about the difficulty of recognizing certain side effects in children. This also means that general practitioners have received correct information and can therefore give patients good information and follow – or at least adapt – their treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u18	Minister, you referred to the FAGG circular of, I believe, May 2020. One of the doctors' criticisms was that the letter was barely read. They made the statement: "You get so much mail on the bus that many of those letters are hardly read." Perhaps that is also a problem that needs to be looked at, namely how the FAGG can better get such communication from doctors. I hope, despite this claim, that these are the exceptions. As far as I understand, there are also alternatives, such as buffers. They should actually be preferred. Indeed, I think it would be good to re-evaluate the refund. I would therefore like to thank you for your initiative to present this to the CTG.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u19	The MICA programme (Monitoring Intensive Care Activities) is a project that was validated in 2017 with the aim of improving the quality of medicine in intensive care by using quality and performance indicators. For example, the clinical and epidemiological profile of patients in the intensive care department can be analysed, such as the co-morbidities by age and gender, the average duration of uptake and mortality. Knowledge and transparency about these parameters are crucial to ensuring patient safety, especially when mapping the COOVID-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, several major intensive care services have joined this programme, which is good for monitoring 839 intensive beds. What is your attitude towards the MICA project? To what extent was this project used in the monitoring of the COVID-19 pandemic? What data have already been used from this project? Is it your intention to further expand and support the MICA project? Are there any other benchmarking systems in circulation outside that of the Flemish hospital network, and what is your attitude towards that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u20	From the outset, the FPS Public Health, in this case the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee (HTSC), in consultation with all representatives of all public authorities, Defense, the hospital domes and experts, has tried to closely monitor the situation of the hospital sector. The basis of such a succession is good data management and good data flow. We can learn a lot from it. In managing a crisis, it is important to be able to collect data in real time and as appropriate as possible. There is therefore no need to argue that in this pandemic, the occupation of intensive care units is one of the key indicators for following this pandemic in Belgium. We can ask ourselves, among other things, how we can better collect the available data in hospitals, how we can use and consolidate that data, how we can get a better view of the intensive care departments and their patients, and what the effect of vaccination on the intensive care departments is. In this way, we can better manage this crisis. The MICA project is a quality project in which hospitals are viewed in relation to each other on the basis of many indicators. The aim is to make care in the various intensive care departments of the hospitals more qualitative, which can only be positive. You also asked to what extent this project was used in monitoring the pandemic. In addition to the mandatory surge-capacity survey carried out on the basis of a Royal Decree of 30 April 2020, it is indeed a possible other channel to gain insight into what is happening in the ICU services. Since not every hospital in Belgium is connected to this, this project will be used as an early detection system that will give us indications, in conjunction with the other data that are already available. No data from this project is currently being used. The hospital agreement is there to be able to use aggregated data. My services are currently taking the necessary steps to put that right. You also asked me to extend this further. This is a very interesting project and of course it is always intended to see how interesting projects can improve the quality of care. The fact that there are other benchmarking tools is one thing, but this is not a guarantee that this increases the quality of care. In other words, however much we strive to improve the quality of care, I cannot at this time confirm that we will use this project as a central project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u21	Minister, I am asking this question because you may remember that our group has been calling for a long time for figures on mortality and longevity of covid patients in hospitals. Those figures have been denied for a long time by Sciensano and the FOD was also very reluctant in this respect. They indicated that due to a lack of peripheral data it was very difficult to put everything in the right context. After this, I was contacted by doctors who told me that they had an insight into it. They did know which patients were more susceptible and how certain people got more seriously ill and had a longer lying time. I found it very strange that the government didn't lack that information, all the more so because the MICA project was actually set up by one of your predecessors. It could then be assumed that it shows some common sense to look at this, especially in a crisis situation. I find it extremely problematic that projects are being launched which are then no longer followed up and are not being used at times when they could be very useful and necessary. You also say that benchmarking is not a guarantee of quality of care. I have spoken with a number of doctors about this, and they say that it is a very good tool to discuss treatment protocols and approaches with each other. In this way we will eventually get an increase in quality. I hope that efforts will continue to be made to improve the quality of care. The initiatives currently being taken by hospitals on a voluntary basis must also be financed by them themselves, while the quality of care can only be improved. I hope that you too will take initiatives to further reward and support this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u22	I submitted this question a long time ago. It concerns the fact that vaccinees who tested positive could retain their corona certificate. This week I had tabled a new question, question No. 55021140C. It is also on the agenda at point 79, but that is actually an update of this question. I would like to see this question dealt with now if possible. I'm sure you'll answer that as well. With the CovidSafeBE app there are still a few problems. For example, a certain certificate can be scanned several times at an event and this gives a green light each time. Apparently, there are people who pass that on to each other. Is there any work being done on a solution there? If it is not possible to answer this question now, it is not a problem. I'll wait, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u23	We'll see if he can answer that later with the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u24	After a bus trip to Blankenberge, 32 of the 49 vaccinated bus travellers from Limburg got infected with the coronavirus. The bus passengers were all vaccinated; a coronapas (Covid Safe Ticket or CST) was the condition to be allowed on the bus. There were 4 samples with a high viral load transferred to the Jessa Hospital in Hasselt, where a sequencing should determine the variant. Luckily, the seniors didn't get seriously ill. The 49 seniors all had a CST in their pockets, but still there were infections. Apparently, the CST doesn't guarantee a virus-free society. You said just now that you will continue with the introduction of the CST. I have still not received a concrete answer to my question as to what scientific insights you support in this regard. Can you forward the links to the scientific articles on which you base yourself? Then I could delete a lot of questions. Do we know what variant the seniors were infected with?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u25	This is going to be somewhat improvising, so I'm trying to keep it short. Mrs Sneppe, again your questions were about seropositivity, blood tests and their role in the vaccination passport. I reacted negatively to that suggestion during the debate, and I also explained why I reacted in this way. So I'm not going to go back to that. The problem with recent infections despite vaccination was not foreseen in the original architecture of the CST, but we have now solved that. Someone recently infected will still get code red, despite the fact that he has been vaccinated, so that he doesn't get access. We know that the chances of you getting infected after vaccination are much smaller, but she's not completely nonexistent. As a result, you're left with the problem that vaccinees still transmit an infection. In organised collective transport, we always think of other basic security measures such as the mouth mask and a number of well-known hygiene protection measures. Mrs Sneppe, I do not have the results of the genome sequencing with regard to the incident involving the bus journey to which you refer. Mr De Caluwe, your question concerns the fraudulent use of the Covid Safe Ticket. The QR code is signed electronically. When trying to change the holder's name or first name in the QR code, an error message is given when scanning it. The person who scans the European Digital Covid Certificate must ask the person who shows that Digital Covid Certificate to submit a photo identification document and thus verify that the name and first name on the European certificate corresponds to the one on the identity card and that the photo is a good photo of the person concerned. In this way, you avoid the presentation of a European Digital Certificate that is actually the certificate of a third person. The version of the European certificate we show with our Belgian CovidSafeBE app shows an animation around the QR code, whereby the person who scans can determine that it is not an original European Digital Certificate. This also avoids that a smartphone can take a picture of the QR code that can then be presented as authentic, whereas it is actually not authentic. So around your vaccination certificate is an animation, which is actually an anti-fraud system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u26	I will reply briefly: I have already responded during the debate on blood samples. I think we're gonna miss a chance there, but well, that's another discussion. As far as your answer to my other question is concerned, that is precisely what a corona pass does: to give a false sense of security. I do not know whether the seniors have kept to the duty of masking the mouth, perhaps it should be checked, but it is of course the consequence of your corona pass. I'm surprised you don't know what variant the seniors are infected with. Hopefully that will be reported somewhere and at least it will be in some database with Sciensano, so we can keep an eye on the progress of the virus variants.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u27	I'd already noticed the animation. I thought it was an attempt by the developers to make it sexier, but now I understand that that is indeed one of the means that can help to detect potential forgeries. It may be me, but for me, this is new information. So maybe it's not very well communicated. In any case, in my municipality, I'm going to give the organizers of events that require a CST the tip that they should watch the animation. In this way, they can already prevent a large part of the possible fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u28	Thank you, Minister. It has indeed been resolved in the sense that it can be demonstrated when there is an infection after the double vaccination, but I would like to make one observation or ask. Caregivers who have been vaccinated and are infected will be able to work with that red Covid Safe Ticket, but cannot go to an event. That's kind of special somewhere. I'm not sure we'll find an answer to that, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u29	Yes, that has just been mentioned in the debate on the new cooperation agreement. You are right, you may ask questions from the outside, but it has to do with the fact that legislation that would affect the situation of someone who is in a relationship of employee to employer, where there is therefore a contract of employment, requires far more than the basis we lay here for the Covid Safe Ticket. In between saying that one has to be vaccinated to work somewhere and saying that the organizer of an event may ask you to show the Covid Safe Ticket, the first is a much heavier procedure, so to speak. It requires a specific legislative framework that we do not have today, because it concerns an employment contract in which I intervene. We have already discussed this in the debate this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u30	Minister, before the summer we introduced two free PCR tests for people who could not have been fully vaccinated. Those free tests should make it possible for those people to participate in activities or to travel. For those who have already received an invitation but have not been vaccinated, the PCR test is not free. We have already discussed it at length today. However, within the group of non-vaccines there is also a small group that cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons. Since we are also expanding the use of the Covid Safe Ticket (CST), the costs for that group can be considerable. Are we thinking of offering more free tests to this target group? Are we thinking of adjusting the CST so that these people are not obliged to have a test done for each trip?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u31	Mr President, there is indeed a very limited group of people who cannot be vaccinated or who cannot be vaccinated, for example because of a very high risk of a serious allergic reaction. Those people need COVID tests to obtain a European corona certificate or a CST in order to travel or participate in certain events in our country if requested by the CST. A procedure is now being developed to repay PCR and rapid antigen tests to this group, so that these people can also obtain a European certificate or a CST free of charge to prove that they are not infected. The proposed procedure is that these people obtain a doctor's certificate attached to a reference centre of allergicology, indicating a prohibition of first vaccination or follow-up vaccination. Today there are 23 such reference centres in Belgium. This certificate would then be transferred by the insured person to the medical adviser of his sickness fund. On the basis of the cost statements submitted for the tests, the sickness fund may refund the tests, both PCR tests and rapid antigen tests, carried out by a healthcare professional and unlimited in number. That would be a structural solution. It takes a royal decision to make that possible. That's in preparation. The procedure was submitted to the Insurance Committee on 20 September. Afterwards, communication will follow to all insurance institutions, general practitioners and reference centres in order to make this procedure known. The information will of course also be published on the website of the RIZIV.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u32	Mr President, Minister, I cannot really add much to that. Thank you for not forgetting this group and working out a solution for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u33	Minister, in order to prevent the hospital beds from being filled again in the autumn, Jeroen van der Hilst infectiologist from the Hasselt Jessa Hospital on 10 August, more than a month ago, asked to ease the corona measures. After all, most people have had the opportunity to be vaccinated and the people who chose not to, sooner or later, will have the coronavirus. I quote him: "We must look at what is the greater purpose of the corona measures and wonder if they are not doing us more than good at the moment." Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Have you asked this infectiologist for a text and explanation, since this is a very different opinion from that of the advisory experts? If so, can you give us a report on this? If not, why not? Will you follow the advice of this infectiologist? In the meantime, of course, we know you didn't follow that. After all, summer is already over. What plan do you have for the further settlement of the pandemic? What purpose do you put first? As Mr De Roover said, the caravan is always being moved. Are you going for zero tolerance or are we going to learn to live with an endemic virus? What steps will have to be taken? When do we return to life before corona, to the real normal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u34	Mrs Sneppe, I have read what infectiologist Jeroen van der Hilst said, just like the chairman of the GEMS, our official advisory board, said about this. Her reaction to that was pretty negative. I have thought about this and decided not to continue with Jeroen van der Hilst's advice, although different opinions are always interesting and welcome. You are asking how we will continue to deal with the crisis. You will understand that I cannot answer such a question in two minutes. I refer to all the statements made on this matter since the last Consultative Committee, to the debate we have just had on the CST and to the ongoing discussions we have on vaccinations. So it's really hard to answer such a broad question here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u35	Minister, we know of course that you are following the advice of the GEMS, but I find it striking that the infectiologist, who is not a dumb-ass and who will know his profession, is not even heard that he is not invited. Apparently, the horse glasses at the advisory bodies are very large, which is very unfortunate. You say you can't answer this in two minutes. It would be thought that there would be some sort of plan by now. I have asked you several times where that is, but you must also admit that there is not really a plan. Ad hoc measures are being taken, but otherwise there is no long-term vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u36	Minister, the Royal Decree of 15 January 2014 laid down the rules on which emergency information should be communicated to the Minister of Health. Some of the data to be recorded according to the KB are the date and time of entry of the patient to the emergency service, the date and time of deregistration, and the period within which the patient should be treated on the basis of triage. The Royal Decree of 15 January 2014 states that the period of time within which the patient should be treated should be recorded on the basis of the triage residue. What exactly is that supposed to mean? Can you provide more information on the data recorded in that context? Is that registration happening correctly today? If so, what do the results of that registration tell you? Do you see certain striking trends or differences between hospitals? I am thinking specifically of CVA patients, for example, who are being admitted. Finally, where are reforms possible to reduce waiting times? How do you see the impact of hospital networking on waiting times on emergency services?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u37	It is true that an emergency registration was imposed on hospitals via KB of 15 January 2014. It was introduced in 2 phases in 2014-2015. Since UREG was a new form of registration in real time, where all other registrations are post hoc, it was assumed when the system was introduced that a learning time of emergency staff was also necessary. For all these reasons, and in order to ensure optimal quality, it was stated that data exploitation of UREG would not be possible in 2017. In the context of administrative simplification, the number of variables within the registration was drastically reduced in October 2017. The aim was to reduce the administrative burden on hospitals, but the result was that the objectives included in the Royal Decree were no longer feasible. That is why UREG was suspended by my predecessor in 2019. Then you ask what exactly is meant by the period within which the patient should be treated on the basis of the triage. Well, emergency services use different types of triage models to define the priorities within the patient waiting group. Examples include the Manchester Triage Scale, the Australian Triage Scale, the Canadian Emergency Department Triage and Acuity Scale and the Emergency Severity Index. Within the models, certain severity levels are maintained for a period within which patients should be treated: the most severe should be treated immediately, the least severe should be allowed to wait several hours. I cannot provide you with more precise information about the deadline, because the UREG registration was suspended in 2019. Finally, I must tell you that the length of time between registration and effective treatment on the emergency service was not recorded within the suspended UREG. Recording the duration of the waiting period is of value only if it is assessed against the time limit within which the patient should be treated on the basis of the triage and if a qualitative analysis of the reasons why the time limit would be exceeded is possible during the review. Finally, with regard to reforms that might have a good impact, I can say the following. The influx of emergency patients is not an organized influx. People don't come there by appointment. Avoiding waiting times at peak times is therefore only possible if the services are dimensioned in such a way that they could treat everyone immediately even at peak moments, but that would also mean that there is a high excess capacity at all other times. It is therefore a question of finding a cost-effective balance between capacity on the one hand and waiting time on the other. The triage is therefore the instrument to prevent people with conditions that are not allowed to wait. Others who come to the emergency service with less or non-urgent conditions must, of course, be patient. Limiting the inflow itself through, for example, an increased own contribution when consulting on an emergency service without reference and for non-urgent conditions is a bit controversial. Sensitisation and education of the general public may be a possible path in the longer term in order to reduce over-inquiries of emergency services for, for example, first-line care. The further roll-out of GPs, 1733 and the cooperation between sentries and hospitals are also important elements that we need to consider further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u38	So, Minister, a suspension has taken place because it was unfeasible, but is it intended to restart it and in what form? Registration is important to measure the speed of assistance. You also talked about the different models that hospitals use for triage. Is it not more useful or simpler that we use one model in all hospitals, so that the data can be compared better and the quality checked? I am not a doctor or expert, but I would like to know why we do not standardise this across all hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u39	I'm afraid to answer that. At first sight, it does not seem so obvious to me to impose a uniform model, but I do not really have the courage to answer it. I have no idea of plans to restart UREG, probably because the problem of the basic data remains.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u40	The EU Regulation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices and repealing both a Directive and a Commission Decision shall enter into force on 26 May 2022. In order for the Regulation to enter into force, a number of cross-compliance conditions must be met. That does not seem to be the case at the moment. EU reference laboratories, common specifications and implementation guidance are essential issues that are not yet on track. The acceptance of the notified bodies that are required to issue the certificates for MDR and IVDR seems to be delayed. The company which has so far been the only Belgian notified body accepted under the Directive has still not been accepted under the Regulation. This entails the risk that certificate holders will no longer be sure that they can be recertified in good time under the new Medical Devices Regulation. In addition to the economic damage, this may lead to scarcity of essential tools for in vitro diagnostics. How is it that there is so much delay in accepting the only Belgian company previously designated as certified body under the Medical Devices Directive? Are the problems being solved? How do you see the entry into force of the regulation on 26 May? How do you estimate the damage, economic, but above all health care, if not all the necessary conditions have been met before the entry into force of the regulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u41	The FAGG is indeed for Belgium the authority competent to designate a notified body, i.e. a notified body. It is then competent to certify medical devices and medical devices for in vitro diagnostics and thus to allow them to enter the European market. The delay has two causes. Firstly, there is the need to deal with the consequences of Brexit in good time. In consultation with the notified bodies, it has been chosen to extend the existing designation under the old directive on medical devices so that they could take over the European files of their British sister company for the Brexit. Only then could further follow up the notification of the file in accordance with the new Regulation on medical devices. Secondly, there is the procedure for instructions from the notified bodies themselves. This implies a very long lead time of at least 18 months, as the assessment is carried out by a European team in collaboration with the national team. The file is still ongoing, but it is in the final phase. Another point is the lack of sufficiently notified bodies at European level as regards the EU Regulation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices, which will enter into force on 26 May 2022. The Member States and the European Commission are aware of the problem. If no solution is found, a number of medical devices may not be able to be certified in time and therefore will not remain on the European market. Together with colleagues from other Member States, I have also raised the issue with the European institutions on behalf of Belgium. I did so with a view to adjusting the transitional period in the regulation. In this way, medical devices that have not yet been certified can remain on the market until sufficient notified bodies are in place. The initiative to amend the Regulation lies with the European Commission. According to the information I have at my disposal, that is also in preparation. Member States shall also discuss the development of common processes to facilitate the assessment of dossiers between Member States and to ensure the continuity of patient care. The Regulation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices will enter into force on 26 May 2022. That's not up for discussion. As I have explained, it is only an adjustment of the transitional regime, which should allow medical devices that do not need certification today to remain on the market until sufficient notified bodies have been designated to carry out the examination for this certification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u42	Minister, we must indeed ensure that we do not end up in a legal vacuum. I understand that the EU will take an initiative to ensure this. I'm looking forward to what that's gonna do in the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u43	We know that there is a World Antimicrobial Awareness Week coming, but the World Health Organisation believes that we should constantly pay attention to this and that this is already a serious threat in several countries. During this period, the World Health Organisation takes specific initiatives aimed at increasing attention to the resistance of micro-organisms through the excessive and improper use of antimicrobial medicinal products. This week was first organised in 2015. With initiatives such as BAPCOC and AMCRA, Belgium has been fighting for many years against inappropriate antibiotic use and antimicrobial resistance. In recent years, we have also sought a structural national action plan against antimicrobial resistance in cooperation with different sectors. Following consultation in the Inter-Ministerial Conference, the FPS Public Health published the draft antimicrobial resistance plan for a public consultation, which ran until 10 July 2021. Such consultation is important. Citizens and stakeholders will be given the opportunity to make additions and suggestions to the plan, which will eventually contribute to the policy's acceptance. To what extent did citizens and stakeholders participate in the public consultation? What is their profile or which stakeholders mainly participated? Will the processed results and the adapted plan be re-presented to the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health? Is the official launch of the plan, scheduled for October 2021, still feasible? After all, we have had a difficult period. Will the plan pay attention to the domain of forgotten tropical diseases (or ignored tropical diseases)? Are you planning initiatives or actions during World Antimicrobial Awareness Week? If so, which one? Will the necessary efforts be made to bring the national action plan to the attention of the population? After all, this is something that everyone must pay attention to, both in human beings, animals and the environment, namely the correct use of antibiotics.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u44	Mr President, Mrs De Block, the issue of antimicrobial resistance is indeed a very topical issue. It's important to me, too. On 10 July 2021, the public consultation on the National Action Plan One Health AMR was indeed concluded. There were many reactions from the private sector from associations and professionals dealing with human health but also animal health and the environment. Comments were received from doctors and pharmacists, from a professor, from the EBPP Practice Net, from the Belgian Association of Hospital Hygiene, from Natuurpunt, from the West Flemish Environmental Federation, from the Federation of Better Environment, from beMedTech, from the Global Antibiotic Research and Development Partnership, from the Boerenbond, from the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association, from DGZ/ARSIA and from Test Purchase. I think I can say that the plan has been welcomed and that it has enabled us to obtain very relevant advice. The plan has been adapted to the feedback and is now validated. The final plan shall be subject to a validation procedure at the level of the public authorities and of an IKW AMR or antimicrobial resistance. It will be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval later this month. Several administrations have worked hard on the plan over the past few years, for which I am grateful. The result, in my view, is a coherent set of measures and actions in the field. It clearly carries the principle of "One World, One Health." In order to coordinate the plan sufficiently, to recruit people again for, among other things, BAPCOC and to provide sufficient research, to monitor the data and the situation, it is necessary to allocate additional financial resources. Mrs De Block, the content of the plan has been well received by my federal colleagues. However, there is still a discussion on the budgetary aspect. So if you could support this in the next few hours and days, in which we are in favour of a budget discussion, that would be very welcome. After all, that's not so bad in the fire. Pending official approval, several actions have already been launched, such as the launch of the pilot projects of the HOST or Hospital Outbreak Support Team, which aim to strengthen the management of infection risks in the hospital sector and enable the development of a transversal approach to support first-line care. The National AMR Action Plan covers all antimicrobials, i.e. antibiotics, antifungals, antivirals and antiprotozoals, used in the Belgian context. Treatments specifically targeted at certain neglected tropical diseases are included in the plan. However, they are not a priority for clarity. Finally, a communication campaign is indeed planned under the Global Antimicrobial Awareness Week, which will take place from 18 to 24 November 2021. This year the aim is to raise awareness among the general public, in particular through social networks, of the prevention of infection, the correct use of antimicrobial medicinal products and the importance of handing over unused medicinal products to the pharmacy. The validation of the Belgian National Action Plan One Health AMR to combat antimicrobial resistance will also be communicated to the public and to numerous stakeholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u45	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your detailed reply. It is indeed a very important subject. We come from a pandemic, but every year there are also many victims of antimicrobial resistance. They are not talked about much in people's homes, nor when they ask for antibiotics to be prescribed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u46	As for your first question, data at county level are not available in the seroprevalence studies conducted by Sciensano. As for your second question, a study to determine the presence of antibodies in the general population via saliva tests is still ongoing at Sciensano. Preliminary data indicate that this had developed antibodies in weeks 26 and 27, i.e. the weeks from 28 June to 11 July, 77 per cent of the population not staying in a rest home. In age groups 18 to 29 years, 30 to 49 years and 50 to 69 years and in over 70 years respectively 63 %, 63 %, 99 % and 94 %. However, a certain margin of error must be taken into account. The study does not allow to estimate differences per province, but it does survey differences per region. In Flanders and Wallonia, the proportion of people with antibodies at that time was 79 %, in Brussels 65%. As far as your third question is concerned, in mid-June 2021, 17.2% of young people between 13 and 14 years of age, representative of adolescents, had antibodies to sars-CoV-2 in Belgium and 5.4 percent of children between 7 and 9 years of age. Thus, the vast majority of young people over 12 years of age had no antibodies before vaccination started in this age group. Therefore, it was not useful to take the serological status into account when deciding whether or not to vaccinate this group. As far as your fourth question is concerned, we also report antibodies in addition to care providers and blood donors in children, the general population, residents of residential care centres, school staff and employees in residential care centres. For data on antibodies in healthcare providers, check the Sciensano dashboard. A report with results on the evolution of antibodies in the general population between the end of March and the beginning of July 2020 and related factors will be available by the end of October 2021. As for your fifth question, immunity after a natural infection at the beginning of 2021, at the start of the vaccination campaign, was not high enough in any population group to charge it when adjusting and determining the vaccination strategy. As far as your sixth question is concerned, it is not yet known how long it will take to protect natural antibodies or antibodies generated after vaccination. A correlation of protection has not yet been defined. That's what's being investigated around the world. It has clearly been shown that the amount of antibodies generated after vaccination is related to the type of vaccine, with RNA vaccines doing better. The SARS-CoV-2 specific immune response is being investigated in Belgium. These research projects are usually collaborations between Sciensano and our universities and research institutions. There are several research projects investigating the cellular response following SARS-CoV-2 infection or vaccination. Techniques to map cellular immunity are technically demanding and very labour-intensive. Both the T- and the B-cell response, i.e. the B-memory cells, are analysed. Currently there are no results and the role of cellular immunity in protection is unclear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u47	That seems to be a very complete answer. I will read that again in the report and I will come back to it if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u48	Mrs Gijbels, I am looking at my preparation because it is extensive, with graphs and so on. Maybe I should give it to you right away, but I'll answer your questions. As for your first question, about pregnant women with COVID19, for the third wave, we have information on 11.259 hospitalized patients who were admitted with symptomatic COVID-19 infection. Of these, pregnant women accounted for 0.84%, i.e. 95. On your second question, I must say that we have no idea of the exact vaccination rate or the willingness to be vaccinated specifically in pregnant women. On the other hand, we do have an indication based on a specific invitation system that was used to invite pregnant women as an absolute medical priority, by the general practitioners and at the request of the pregnant women themselves. Through this system 24,232 people were invited from whom 21,390, i.e. 88 %, were fully vaccinated. However, we do not have exact figures of the total number of pregnant women in Belgium at the moment. Moreover, over time, more and more pregnant people were invited through the normal invitation system according to decreasing age, which we cannot distinguish from the total number of vaccinated persons. I come to your third question. The guidelines on vaccination for people with a child's wish and for pregnant women have not been amended since the recommendation of the High Health Council (HGR) of 21 May. It states that all pregnant women would ideally be vaccinated as a priority, unlike non-pregnant women, because of their increased risk of serious COVID-19 infection for the mother and premature delivery. In addition, the HGR has no objection to the systematic vaccination of women of childbearing potential who wish to become pregnant, in particular for health workers at high risk of exposure and for women with comorbidities, which makes them a risk group for severe COVID-19. You ask if there is a need for an additional information campaign. No, I don't think, specifically for pregnant women. There are campaigns for the general public and more and more women have been vaccinated before they become pregnant. I may be able to provide you with the corresponding chart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u49	I am certainly interested in that, Minister. It certainly reassures me that 88% of the women who have been recruited have responded to the invitation. I had received the signal that many pregnant women had doubts about vaccination because of conflicting information at first. That was also logical, because we did not yet know whether vaccination involved higher risks for pregnant women. There was indeed something to explain why it was so important that pregnant women should also be vaccinated. Nor do we forget the message from doctors that the treatment of pregnant women who were hospitalized because of COVID-19 was not easy. I am pleased that many pregnant women are now reassured and vaccinated; we all want to prevent pregnant women from undergoing such intensive treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u50	Mr Minister, this question was tabled a long time ago, but it remains topical. I'd like to get an update on the current situation in the hospitals. What are the most recent forecasts regarding hospital occupancy? Is there still sufficient staff available to staff the services intensive care? In which hospitals are the intensive care services remarkably more entrusted with the care of infected persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u51	Minister, I asked you this question during the summer, when a fourth wave threat was emerging. Of course, the figures are slowly falling, but they remain worrying, especially when placed in parallel with the situation of healthcare workers. Indeed, it is literally exhausted because it continues to treat patients in intensive care. My questions are ultimately in line with those of my colleague, but I would like to clarify them. Minister, what about the situation in our hospitals? On the basis of what criteria would you consider the situation in our country to be worrying? Is an emergency plan ready? Would intensive care congestion remain the most important criterion? We also see a resurgence of contamination among the youngest, mainly at school. What are the main lessons learned from the first three waves, with a view to managing a possible fourth wave? Finally, are we now able to avoid the closure of entire sectors, and if so how (except, of course, the Covid Safe Ticket that we have just adopted the extension)?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u52	Colleagues, on 28 September we had 702 covid patients, 207 covid-ICU patients and 13 HFNO patients within Belgian hospitals. Mathematically, the capacity utilisation rate was above 25% on the intensive concerns of 10 hospitals. Epidemiologically, the situation has been quite stable for a week. The predictions for the coming period are very divergent. The short-term model gives a number of people at ICU between 139 and 282 on the date of 7 October. That's a very broad fork. As far as the questions about staff are concerned, I cannot simply reassure you. After almost two years of almost superhuman performance, staff are tired, the interim market is virtually empty and care personnel have already been actively mobilized and deployed outside care. To this day we are able to offer quality covid and non-covid care and to catch up on delayed care from the previous waves, but that is a strong performance against that background. In the event of a new or even limited wave or other pressure on the system due to, for example, an influenza wave, the phasering and the phasing-out and reconstruction of regular activities within the search capacity plan will have to be re-used. Even with a pragmatic approach with not too great leaps, but with timely and gradual build-up, delay of care may not be avoided. Mrs Rohonyi, in case of a new surge, there is no magic solution. The regulatory role of the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee has worked and needs to be continued. The distribution plan should be used more widely, proactively, perhaps by not limiting itself to covid-19 patients. The temporary labour market is almost empty, so the situation remains difficult. In order to avoid the closure of entire areas in the event of an outbreak of contamination, there is only one weapon, namely vaccination, accompanied by general precautionary measures and, of course, where it appears appropriate, the use of the Covid Safe Ticket. Mr President, I would like to announce that the last question will be that of Mrs Gijbels. I will summarize my answer and give her the countless tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u53	Thank you, Minister. I think it is a good thing that you refer to the people of the health sector, who are now giving the best of themselves for almost two years. They perform supernaturally. We must not forget that. Anyone who can be reactivated has been reactivated. The necessary people just aren't here. If we then have discussions about measures to be taken to ensure that our health care does not collapse, that is one of the reasons why we should do so. I hope that everyone will think about this at the right moments. We cannot afford to have the people of that sector back on their gums.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that it is difficult to anticipate a fourth wave potential. For this, mathematical projections exist and you have given us potential figures by October 7. I would be interested to know how these mathematical projections are made, since others have been presented by the press, which report even more alarming figures fuelling fears of too rapid a relaxation of the measures (at least if we follow the schedule of confinements that is ours today, it would be the fourth wave assured). I think we need to moderate this type of projection by explaining how you make your own projections and by explaining the phase and dispatching plans of patients who exist in our hospitals and who will ensure that we can take care of our patients while knowing that, for that, the healthcare staff must be able to do so when at present it is exhausted. To avoid such a situation of saturation and exhaustion of our staff, and as you said, the best weapon is vaccination. In order to facilitate this, a great deal of transparency with regard to the population is needed, in particular by clarifying the figures that are currently circulating on social networks and in the press for people in intensive care and explaining that they are essentially people who are not vaccinated and what the proportions are. This information must be shared with the population, and in particular with those who doubt the effectiveness of the vaccine and who, therefore, could jeopardize the efforts of a large part of the population to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u55	Mr President, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u56	I can imagine that the question is now a little dated, but that does not mean that the problem is not important. You refer to data from the summer period, where we saw very high positivity rates among the returned travellers in a number of countries of origin. It was. During the period to which you refer, this was 12.4 % in northern Macedonia, 10.1 % in Morocco, 8.8 % in Pakistan. After that, that became less, but those are very high figures. You also know that there has been a lot of discussion about the control of the PLF. I have also urged my colleagues to do so as thoroughly as possible. The administrations of Health, Home Affairs and Foreign Affairs are working together to coordinate as closely as possible on how the control of the PLF and the passengers can happen. This also requires cooperation on the ground. You also asked if there was a view of the vaccination status of the people returning. In August, 72.8 % of returning travellers indicated that they had a vaccination certificate. This figure is comparable to the vaccination rate of the general Belgian population, in particular 71%. I am not sure what we should derive from that. This means that this group which is able to submit a vaccination certificate does not differ so much from our inhabitants. Are the PLF data and vaccination status linked? Does that lead to actions? During checks, the carrier or border police shall check for identity, PLF and vaccination certificate or evidence of a negative PCR test. A direct link between the PLF data and the vaccination data is being worked on, but this is an approach for which a separate legal basis is still needed. This, of course, once again creates problems with respect to privacy. We haven't got that far yet, but they're looking into it. You also asked if we can guarantee that the returners fill out the PLF correctly? You know that passengers travelling with a carrier are required to fill in the PLF. There are checks, too. Of course, the PLF is an explanation of honour in which one is dependent on what people write down. It is true that misfiling is a criminal offence, but one must be able to determine it. However, there are examples of fraud committed by both travellers and carriers who are being prosecuted in criminal proceedings. Controls by travellers by car are carried out by the police and are followed by Home Affairs. The number of car passengers required to fill in the PLF is less good because passengers who were less than 48 hours abroad or those who are less than 48 hours in Belgium are not required to fill in the PLF. In August we received a total of 1,700,649 electronic PLFs. Of those 1.7 million there were 694.770 passengers per car. In how many cases is a test carried out on return from a red zone? Travellers from a red zone belonging to the EU and the Schengen area should only undergo a test if they do not have a vaccination certificate or a certificate of restoration, which also applies to countries on the white list, or a PCR test. 88 % of that group that arrived between 1 August and 1 September has undergone PCR testing in Belgium on days 1 or 2. For the information per country I will give you a table, Mrs Gijbels. Of the 10 countries with the most travellers, Spain is at the top of the list of 66.089 arrivals and the test rate is 87 percent. For France, the numbers are 30,639 arrivals and 88 percent. There are also countries where it is a little lower. I'll give it to you so you can look at it. Then there is a red zone in third countries, non-EU, non-Schengen and not on the white list. All travellers from the red zone of those countries should undergo a PCR test and, if they cannot submit a vaccination certificate, they should also be quarantined. Here we find that 81% of these travellers who arrived in Belgium between 1 August and 1 September have undergone a PCR test. 53.691 arrivals came from Morocco, with 89% with test. For Turkey there were 47,972 arrivals, with 86% with test. From the United Kingdom 19,057 passengers arrived, with 72% having a test. At the moment, we have no identification of very high-risk countries. I can't get those out like that. I can give you an annex to the list of all countries, so that you can look at it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u57	It was indeed a somewhat dated question. Still, it's interesting to hear all this. You indicated that the Home Office, the State Department and the Health Department are working together. Of course, there are still vacation periods to come. Most likely, someday there will be pandemics. Is there any debriefing about such a theme? Is there a sit-down after such a vacation period to discuss how it went down, whether things can be dealt with differently in the future? Or isn't that standardized? Many returners of holiday is a risk situation. Did that all turn out okay? Are there any points of improvement there? This is the moment in the crisis to learn lessons? Is this also done by default and automatically, for example after a holiday period if a number of risk situations arise, or is it not organised directly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u58	What you're proposing makes perfect sense. We do have to do that. At the moment I have no knowledge of a very recent overview. Over the past year, we have been constantly receiving reports from Mrs Moykens in the IMC with all these data. That was a while ago, because the attention in the last IMC meetings went mainly to other things. We have the data, so maybe we can come back to that in conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic581x.u59	Minister, if there is any information available, I would like to receive it.
