ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we have two topical debates today, the first concerning random checks on telework and the second, the wage standard. I propose five minutes of speaking time for each political group, which will allow you to divide the floor if you wish. If your group has not tabled a question, we can give you time to speak later. The minister answers in ten minutes if possible. Then, the replicas will be two minutes per group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u2	Good morning, everyone. We are not opposed to the fact that the time of each group is limited, we must move forward. We'll do our best to respect this time. Sometimes it's complicated to say everything you have to say in such a short time. Here, for example, the first debate is about control; but there are different aspects about control. I'll do my best not to exceed five minutes. As a team, we'll think about whether we can offer anything to improve our operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u3	Madam President, some of our questions are already some time old. In the meantime, a request for new figures has been sent to the minister to whom we have received a written response. The substance of our questioning really concerns our disagreement that Belgium is not yet able to detect clusters. We now receive information via Sciensano. Although this obviously changes from week to week, two out of every three clusters come from companies. Minister, we welcome the fact that you have increased the number of controls. However, we must go one step further, on the one hand, by increasing the number of controls with sufficient human capacity and, on the other hand, within the framework of the control itself, we must go all the way to the end. Even in the case of "small sanctions", we must ensure that we return to see if there is compliance after the warning that has been given. We must also go back and see if things are being put in place in the companies that have been closed down. In addition, as part of the checklist to be followed by the controllers, they must check whether there has been a risk analysis and check "yes" or "no" depending on the response. We would like them to go further and check how this risk analysis has been organised. We must not be content with the answer. For example, the following questions should be asked: "How many risk analyses have been done with the prevention advisor? How many of these have been done in collaboration with trade union organisations?" We really need to check to the end what is happening at the enterprise level. Another more specific axis concerns telework. The government's focus is to focus on telework as much as possible. We would therefore like to see more specific control at this level. When you see increasing traffic on motorways, this suggests that a lot of people are still going to their places of work, even if it is not scientific proof. We really need to be able to go deeper into the controls on this particular point, especially at a time when, unfortunately, this famous variation has appeared. A Security Council will be held shortly. There is also this problem related to youth, which risks becoming a psychological, social and educational catastrophe, especially in the most disadvantaged families. For us, there is a link between strengthening corporate controls and taking decisions in a calm manner, taking into account a balance between health, economic, social and psychological issues, especially for children. This includes the possibility of deciding, for example, whether children should return to school. The community is a package. It is thought that controlling companies is very important for the whole community but also for its workers who are on the front line and who keep working. They're also tired of all these measures, like all of us. I am not saying that they must be hit on their fingers because it is first and foremost the management that must guarantee that safety. Controls do not always have to be aimed at sanctioning, but as a public authority, you show that you really have this concern to go to the field and to accompany both management and trade union organisations so that this happens at best for everyone. From the feedback we have, there are possibilities to adapt social distancing, for example, in places where it is possible and where it is not yet possible. What also happens is that where there are trade union organisations and where consultation is going well, it is going more or less well, but you know, like me, Minister, that in many companies, especially SMEs, there is no trade union representation. We really always want to hit that same nail with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u4	I repeat for those who did not hear me at the beginning of the session. There are two topical debates today, the first on control and telework and the second on the wage standard. I propose that for these two debates we should each have five minutes of speaking time per political group. Then the minister will be able to respond in ten minutes if he considers it feasible. Then the replica will be two minutes. I propose this organization so that we can conduct both or more debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u5	Mr Minister, I submitted my two questions on the agenda a while ago, but they have not lost interest. My first question concerns the checks carried out by the Labour Inspectorate. Since 13 March, the Labour Inspectorate had already checked at least 20,000 companies and I suspect that there are more up-to-date figures in the meantime. When that figure became known, it was found that about half of the checks detected infringements, even though they were not always serious offences. Minister, what policy actions have you already taken and are you planning to ensure safety in the workplace? I would also like to draw attention to my question as to the extent and manner in which infections in the workplace play a role in the burden on our health care. Every word in that question counts. In the end, this must be the essence of the concern about safety at work in the context of the coronapandemic. Little has yet been said about the way in which infections in the workplace play a role in the burden on our health care. I am very interested in your answer. On the one hand, I understand that measures must be taken; there is no doubt about that. On the other hand, some scientific evidence is, of course, not an unnecessary luxury in view of a full debate. I hear several colleagues saying that a lot of people are tired of the measures, but I do not think that is the right word. However, I think that the measures are starting to weigh on more and more people, which is different from being tired, but it is not insignificant. That is why I think it is also important to take a critical look at the situation in the workplace. My second question concerns the control of the quarantine by the social inspection services following the amended Ministerial Decision of 12 January 2021, requiring employers from all sectors to keep a data register, if they cooperate with workers living or staying abroad and where employers are also obliged to check whether the passenger locator form has been filled in. Soon it will only be possible to travel abroad with a statement of honour, but my question also partly has a fundamental side. The Ministerial Decree of 12 January adds a provision stating that "the company doctor may ask the persons concerned to provide proof of compliance with the obligations laid down by the competent authorities', a quote from the Ministerial Decree. However, that sentence is not clarified in the text, so the following questions arise. What evidence are we talking about? What can the company doctor ask or not? What legal basis is there for obliging employees to report to their employer what they do in their leisure time, for example abroad? According to you, can an employer oblige the employee to share information about leisure activities or, in your opinion, conflicts with privacy limits for example? Does the ministerial decision provide a legal basis for a general quarantine obligation after a stay abroad? Of course, there may be other rules tomorrow, but in recent weeks there has been a lot to do. In other words, is there, in your view, a legal basis for the compulsory quarantine of an employee who was not individually quarantined by a doctor after a stay abroad? In the absence of such a legal basis, the employee will be able to claim the performance of his contract and thus receive the salary if he cannot receive compensation for temporary unemployment after a stay abroad. Questions may also be asked about the legal basis to deny him that right, but that will be on the agenda later. I have also put a question on this. Finally, how should employers check whether an employee has been effectively abroad and whether he has completed the passenger locator form? What specific means does an employer have for this when the government imposes this obligation on him? Will additional social checks be carried out by the inspection services to check compliance with the quarantine? Or, updated, were there any such controls? If so, in what form? How many were there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u6	Minister, quite a bit of time has passed between the presentation of my question and the debate today. In the meantime, the figures for flash checks clearly show that there are problems in one out of five companies concerning compulsory teleworking. However, we also know that four out of ten farms are the origin of contamination sites. There are now new virus variants. It is therefore still important to comply with both the corona measures and the telework obligation in order to control and reduce the number of infections. The Labour Inspectorate says that the problems of compulsory teleworking arise mainly in small businesses, because there is not really a policy for compulsory teleworking developed there. What checks are being carried out? How much? What are the main results, both of the flash checks and of the other checks carried out by the Labour Inspectorate? What policy will be further developed to ensure that companies are committed to teleworking and develop a business policy for it? How do we ensure that companies comply with the corona measures? In my opinion, the policy in a company must also ensure the mental well-being of the workers. Finally, you asked the NAR for an opinion on the framework of the mandatory telework to see to what extent collective agreement No. 85 would be applicable here. What is the state of play in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u7	Mr Minister, my colleague has already asked questions about the checks that are being announced today, but will take place unannounced later. I have another question in connection with a newspaper article that reports that some public companies are not so close to the telework obligation. I am thinking more specifically of the smaller local authorities, which provide many essential services. These services are usually manned by one or two persons. If they are physically in the same room, they may get into trouble there too. Mr. Secretary, were there any checks on local authorities? If not, are you planning to do so? What are the consequences for public enterprises or local authorities if they sin against the corona measures in the workplace? Small local authorities often sit in the same room. If a local government is required to provide essential services, this may cause problems in the workplace. Do you think it would be useful to explain to local authorities the measures relating to the number of persons who may be present on a given area? I believe that there is still a great deal of uncertainty about this and that there is still a great deal of sin against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u8	Mrs Muylle is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u9	Mr Minister, on Friday, after the press conference after the Consultative Committee, the Prime Minister stressed that teleworking is more important than ever to avoid the third wave. At the beginning of January, you announced flash checks at companies to check the mandatory homework. After a few weeks of extra checks, with slightly increasing figures, unprecedented variants of the virus and without relaxing other measures, we could expect everything to be done to work at home. However, figures from the Labour Inspectorate show that 1 in 5 companies do not respect the rules on telework. Small to very small enterprises in particular are having difficulty in developing a fully-fledged strategy to introduce telework. However, mandatory homework remains an essential and important measure, as Sciensano has already shown that 4 out of 10 infections are on farms. That makes it even more pressing that telework is respected. You said that the announced flash checks on homework were primarily preventive, but you underlined in the announcement that flagrant infringements would be followed up. How many flash checks and other checks have already taken place? How many flash checks were detected with flagrant infringements? What action has been taken on this? Following the publication of the figures and an increase in daily mobility flows, the Labour Inspectorate called on employers and employees to work as much as possible at home. Do you think there is a need to speed up unannounced flash checks? What initiatives will you take? Ecolo-Groen believes it is very important to ensure that compulsory homework is respected. Companies that need support and help to develop such a strategy should also be provided with government tools to help them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u10	We will move on to Mr. Minister's response. We listen to you for ten minutes, if you think it's feasible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u11	Good morning, everyone. I will try to condense my answer to the various questions that have been addressed to me and attest to the importance of this subject, and to the attention that honourable Members have paid to it. As you know, the health and well-being of workers is of fundamental importance to me. That is why, from the start of this government, I asked all inspection services to monitor compliance with the preventive measures. As you know, all inspection services are now responsible for verifying compliance with protection and social distancing measures and, if necessary, for drawing up records of infringements. In the hierarchy of prevention measures, the obligation to telework is first and foremost. Compliance with the obligation to telework is important for the health of workers, the general public and the economy. I am convinced that the best way to support our companies is to contain the epidemic so that we do not face a new wave and a new lockdown. After a period of previous preventive and coaching enforcement policies by the social inspection services, at the end of October I asked for a reorientation of control policy towards a more repressive policy whereby the social inspectors proceed to draw up a pro-justitia when serious infringements are identified or employers' manifest unwillingness to comply with the obligations imposed on the COOVID-19 measures. These inspections are coordinated by the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service and are constantly updated on the basis of the decisions taken in the Consultation Committee. For example, there is currently systematic monitoring of compliance with the obligation to telework by the competent federal social inspection services, whether coordinated or not, and coordinated flash actions are being carried out through the district cells in the tertiary sector. I now turn to the numbers. Since 28 October 2020, inspection services have coordinated to carry out 3,075 telework-specific checks. As part of these controls, inspection services visited the site and found non-compliance in 362 cases, representing an infringement rate of 12%. These coordinated controls covered all sectors of activity. I must admit, however, that these figures need to be examined with caution for the time being, because they have to evolve. In fact, the various round-table units of the inspection services had - until recently - 45 days to encode all the data relating to the inspections carried out in the field. The data for December and January are therefore not yet complete. Nevertheless, in order to improve monitoring, which is essential, I have asked for definitive figures to be available much faster. At my request, the Strategic Committee decided that, from now on, the time frame for encoding data would be reduced to two days. In addition, all inspection services are now verifying compliance with the rules. It is important to note that the figures that are in my possession and that I have already communicated to you in the context of previous replies do not take into account the checks carried out in isolation by an inspection service within the framework of its specific competences. Further checks have been carried out. Thus, since the beginning of the crisis, the Employment FPS has carried out 24,009 checks, systematically checking compliance with health measures. In 5,608 cases, coronavirus-related offences were found. As you know, I have also asked the various inspection services to organise a "flash" control campaign specifically related to telework. These controls are still under way. Since 5 January, 232 inspections have been carried out in this context. Anomaly was found in 38 cases, representing a 16.3 per cent infringement rate. There has already been some improvement; last week, the infringement rate was 21.2%. I would point out that these flash checks have focused on the tertiary sector, including certain public services. I do not have specific information on local authorities, but as former Walloon minister responsible for local authorities, I know that specific instructions were given. In order not to weaken our efforts, the telework campaign will continue until the end of February. As far as your other questions are concerned, the MB of 28 October 2020 allows prevention advisors and occupational doctors to request a completed PLF and proof of the negative test result for all persons at the workplace. Employers know that employees who normally live or reside abroad and those who have been sent abroad by employers for professional reasons know that they are from abroad. However, the employer does not know whether the employee went abroad during his holiday. This is part of the employee's privacy. The Data Protection Authority confirms on its website that the employer may ask employees to fill out a questionnaire to check whether they have been in a risk area during the past 14 days, or whether they have recently come into contact with persons tested positively on COVID-19. However, the employer cannot oblige them to fill it out. An employer may, however, sensitise workers in this area by pointing out the current rules on quarantine and testing and asking them to provide the relevant information voluntarily so that they can take this into account in their risk analysis and, if necessary, take preventive measures. It is particularly worrying to note that a significant proportion of travellers, around 40%, do not respect the quarantine and testing conditions imposed on return, which significantly increases the risk of further spread. We have therefore decided to ban travel to and from Belgium for recreational tourism purposes and to allow only essential movements. Control of compliance with the quarantine obligation is in principle a matter for the Länder and it is up to them to organise the general control in this respect. The federal social inspection services will not carry out specific checks on compliance with this obligation. They will check that the measures taken by the competent authority are respected. In other words, the social inspection services will check the presence of persons on the work floor, whether prohibited or not, on the basis of the date of the PLF to be filled in by every Belgian and non-Belgian person at the latest 48 hours before entering Belgium to stay there for more than 48 hours. If necessary, social inspectors may also request proof of a negative test on day 7. SIOD has developed a control methodology to organise targeted checks at the workplaces, including on the basis of listings to be provided by the RSZ, competent for this purpose on the basis of Article 22 of the Ministerial Decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answer. I stressed that your figures showed an increase in controls, but I forgot to point out that it is also to be compared with the period during which it took place. It is true that we are not entirely satisfied, because we must look at these figures in relation to the health crisis. We were in the middle of the second wave. I therefore stress that this number must increase in order to cope with the health crisis, because it is insufficient. In this context, there are no miracles: we must invest more in the Inspectorate. We're not gonna get people to work 24 hours a day. There is therefore a need for more investment at the human level. Secondly, we believe that more needs to be done on concrete data. For example, the figures do not show enough in which sectors and in which companies the problems arise. You say that there are employers who do not respect the rules enough – I think you are right. It wasn't my point to hit the workers first when I said they were sick of it. It may not have been the right word, but you will have understood me: in an atmosphere of work, it is above all the employer who must set the tone. We really need those numbers. What gets us back from the ground – but it's obviously not an objective analysis – is that in logistics and construction, the situation is complicated. The rules are communicated, but they cannot be applied to do the job properly. We need a lot more inspections. You talked about internal controls that are carried out in-house of the company beyond your inspection services. The problem is that these controls don't go back to your administration. However, if you have the returns, we are interested in this information. You did not answer the question of whether you were planning to think about improving this checklist, not just the inspector's request to know if there was a risk analysis, and that's all. Qualitatively check how the analysis was conducted. Minister, we will come back to the matter at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u13	Minister, you have answered some of the questions I have asked. You haven't answered a few of them either. The substance of my questions was twofold. On the one hand, can you explain how infections in the workplace play a role in the burden on our health care? Providing transparency about this is the way to create a basis for the many constraints imposed on and next to the workplace. On the other hand, you did not answer my question about the wider Corona debate. This is, of course, particularly regrettable because you are tapping out of a keg that has been tapped more often in recent weeks, namely that people who come from abroad are immediately being cultivated. You say that 40% did not comply with the rules, but the question is: what kind of regulation is that? There are a lot of reasonable doubts about the legal basis of the restrictions. The rule that starts tomorrow, namely that only essential travel abroad is allowed with an explanation of honour, is yet another regulation in the form of a toothless tiger. The same applies to the obligation of the company doctor to ask the employees concerned to provide proof. Actually, nothing is enforceable. If you impose rules, make sure they are enforceable and clear. In the past few weeks and months, this has not been the case. You should ask yourself what is the legal basis for the general quarantine obligation? I don't even think there is one. A general quarantine obligation is introduced in a number of circumstances and there is no legal basis for that. Then, of course, you should not be surprised that some people do not feel directly addressed. If you leave so many openings that it is more a cheese with holes than an efficient approach to the coronapandemic on the workplace floor, but also next to it, you should not be alarmed when people take the cheese with holes as it is. I find it regrettable that the debate on the impact of certain restrictions on the workplace cannot be brought to the fore. I find it regrettable that this does not create support for the government. I find it regrettable that these restrictions are imposed without a serious legal basis. I refer to the general quarantine obligation and also to the travel ban with the honour certificate. If you have to rely on a statement of honour, just say that everyone can go abroad on condition that they make a statement of honour. Anyone can declare what they want on honor, of course. You also said the federal government won't check on it. Then, of course, we are very far from home. I would like to make a plea for the Corona debate finally to be held with all the data on the table. I asked to what extent the contaminations in the workplace play a role. Even that doesn't answer that. I would also like to make a plea for clear rules that are enforceable, otherwise you should not impose them. It's either one or the other. There are all kinds of ministerial decisions here without a legal basis. I find this particularly regrettable, not only in principle because the legal basis in a rule of law is important, but also because it actually undermines the basis for certain measures, if there were any, a priori. That, of course, also undermines the purpose of the whole fight against corona and that cannot be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, I welcome the fact that you have also focused on the checks which are partly coaching, but that, in the case of flagrant infringements, action is being taken and sanctioned. The telework obligation, as well as the corona measures to be observed in the workplace, are, as you have pointed out, essential in the interests of the health of workers, but also of the whole population and so on of the economy. After all, if everyone falls out, the economy cannot continue to run. I would have expected more, and I would have liked to insist on policy in this area. I can imagine that the telework obligation in March 2020 caught us somewhat off guard, which led to improvisation for companies that were not familiar with it. In the meantime, we are nine months ahead and small businesses who are not so easily employed by prevention advisers need to develop more policies that provide them with tools and tools to implement the telework obligation in the company. We must also pay attention to the framework of workers. It is extremely difficult to sit in front of a screen every day and work at home. There are a number of measures to combine this, for example with distance learning, but for many people it still keeps all the balls in the air at the same time. I am also thinking of winter, extra heating costs, or a good desk chair. Those are things that are not foreseen. There is also the telework.be website. There's good tips on that. It is based on structural telework, but there are also good videos about corona. This website may continue to be used to focus on mental well-being and the policy framework. In any case, the social partners should be urged once again to provide a framework for mandatory teleworking. In the meantime, we are working for nine months and without any kind of framework, this cannot last.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The figures show that we see a decrease in the number of infringements in the sensitising flash controls. So they do have their effect. In addition, we must continue to focus on all those people who cannot work telework. I may have misunderstood Mr Anseeeuw's question. I thought Sciensano's figures show that 4 out of 10 infection sites are in companies. So we have those numbers. They show how important it is to ensure that as few people as possible who do not need to be present in the workplace stay away and work at home. Those who do have to show up in the workplace should be able to do so in the most safe conditions. We will give you all the support you need to continue working hard on this, but I would also ask you to look at the tools that are still needed for the smaller companies to comply with the obligation of teleworking. When I come after colleague Van Robaeys, I often repeat myself. It is important to ensure that people can work in a healthy way and have the necessary resources to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u16	I will be very brief, because of course my group time is already up. I think it's good that checks are being carried out. I also welcome the fact that you have done them in the tertiary sector recently. I hear you saying that special instructions are given about telework to local authorities. But then, of course, it is important that they are followed. That's where it's important to knock on that nail on a lot of local boards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u17	Madam President, Minister, I did not put a specific question, but I would like to give our opinion on teleworking. In these corona times we must realize that it is a very difficult balance. The measures have ensured that the economic engine does not stop completely. Of course, telework is expected to be used to the maximum extent possible. It has also been shown that a lot of contamination occurs on the workplace. That is, of course, disturbing. So homework must certainly be stimulated to the maximum. However, it is heard on the workplace that occasional contact is needed, for the psychological well-being of the employee. The health crisis is, of course, a very clear signal that homework must be promoted as much as possible. Those controls are absolutely necessary, but we have to watch out for a witch hunt. Many companies are absolutely aware of their need in the context of the health crisis. It has been said a few times here, there are obstacles for smaller companies to be able to implement this very well. The tools that are provided to perform this are extremely important. In other companies, permanence is often mandatory. That has to be taken into account. Then very strict measures must be applied in the workplace so that these companies can remain operational. It is very important for my party that we look to the future. After the crisis, homework must be based on collective agreement 85, which is intended to organise a structural framework for homework, but on a voluntary basis. The social partners will play a very important role in developing this framework of agreements. We consider the controls to be very important, but we need to see whether the company can comply with these measures and how it can receive assistance to meet them. We would also like to look at the future, to build on collective agreement 85, on a structural basis, teleworking, but on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u18	Minister, last week in plenary it was already outlined how the social partners immediately withdrew from the biennial IPA negotiations and did not seem to want to make any other contribution to the wage negotiations. The VBO is right to say that the trade unions must urgently be in front of the mirror when it comes to a raise of 0.4% on top of indexation, because after a solvency crisis and a bankruptcy crisis, companies are now in danger of having a competitive crisis if the negotiations are not conducted properly. At the end of the ride we will mostly be out of jobs to fight for. I might make it a little caricature, but that's basically what it's all about. Minister, in the coalition agreement you negotiated, the social partners are given a greater role than ever before. They are mentioned 48 times. About every major decision will go through the social partners. This is where the first one comes in, and you yourself are witnessing how that goes. In an interview recently, your chairman clearly chose the dogmatic side, but it is much more important how you stand on the other side, hence my questions. How do you respond to the fact that the unions continue to blow up the wage negotiations? In what way do you wish to continue the wage negotiations? How do you intend to improve the procedure? What do you intend to do with the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u19	Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u20	Madam President, Minister, as we know – you were questioned about this in plenary – the interprofessional agreement is taking place in a very tense atmosphere, to the point that one of the parties has already left the table. At the moment, the speeches are very opposed. The employer's bench indicates that there is a risk that companies will negotiate more than 0.4% while unions do not feel heard or even humiliated. In the discussions that we have had on several occasions in committee, you have referred to the possibility, enshrined in the government agreement, of taking circulars to adapt the 1996 law on competitiveness. In my view, making certain provisions more flexible would make sense, in particular with a view to adapting to certain sectors, since the economic reality is, today, different from one sector to another. Since the 1996 Act provides for CLCs in sectors or enterprises in order to determine wage developments taking into account, at a minimum, indexation and, at the most, the margin identified, would it not be interesting to proceed with a relaxation? I would like to hear from you about this. I hear that some people are now wondering, even though this is a question that has been asked for a very long time, about the historical handicap, about the security margin referred to in Article 5 of this Act. This margin amounts to 0.5% this year, while in the report the margin available was 0.9%, which leads to a possibility of 0.4% in terms of wage negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u21	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you hear the fire alarm. We will therefore have to temporarily discontinue our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u22	Madam President, having been cut off in my momentum and now having a less tympanum, I come directly to the questions. As a result of the development which I have told you, Mr Minister, while taking into account the respect which must be given and which you show for the negotiations between the social partners, can you give us some information on the state of the negotiations at present? Since you talked about it, what directions do you want to give via circulars? Finally, how do you think you can contribute to the outcome of the social consultation for this IPA? Do you have room for manoeuvre? What initiatives do you intend to take in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u23	Madam President, Minister, I would like to reframe the context in which we are dealing with this interprofessional agreement. As you know, in the context of the pandemic, a large majority of workers continued to "boss". We called them "our heroes" and we applauded them. After applause, it is now time to give them their due in the distribution of wealth. As a socialist minister, to what extent are you going to face the arguments of the right in your government, including those that, in 2017, further restricted this 1996 law? I do not intend to question them on this issue. I would be interested to know how you will reach a consensus in order to achieve greater social justice and equity in the redistribution of wealth, and how you will respond to the demand of the unions? You often point out, quite rightly, respect for social consultation. In this case, you received a letter from the common front of the three organisations saying that they are not at a stage where they are completely unrealistic. Those who criticize them by saying that they have left the negotiating table do not realize very well what an increase of 0.4% means in an interprofessional agreement. In Europe, we are one of the only countries to have this interprofessional agreement, and that is positive. As a left-wing party, we obviously hold on to it like the plume of our eyes, in the same way as the trade union organisations, because this increase allows above all to raise the lowest wages. However, the majority of these concerns women but also sectors where the ratio of trade union forces is not strong enough to seek further increases, especially if this standard is binding and not indicative as the unions also demand. Furthermore, we would like to know how you see the application of the Vivaldi policy statement with regard to the circular. My colleague also asked you the question. We are interested in your answer. This is also to be put in perspective with the figures that have been put forward for some time and that 250,000 workers in our country are poor workers, because that is what this is all about. An increase of 0.4% represents €6.36. It's really not much. How are you going to organize the consensus with a boss who still shouts at public aid? Of course we are not against aid, but for us it must be over-conditioned because history has shown us that aid does not mean a guarantee of employment. We're counting enough files on the fire to prove it. How are you going to handle all this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u24	Madam President, Minister, on 14 January, at the plenary session, I asked you about the interprofessional agreement. You told me that the 1996 law provided for the social partners to set the wage margin under the IPA, through a negotiation that is not directly related to the distribution of the welfare envelope. You also pointed out that it was only in the event of disagreement between the social partners that the government could intervene. You concluded your answer to my question by stating that social consultation was one of the fundamental pillars of our social model and that you did not wish to interfere in the ongoing discussions. Since then, the social partners have been able to express themselves and the negotiations have been put in brackets. Minister, could you provide an update on the current status of the negotiations? Are we moving towards a postponement of the interprofessional agreement towards 2022? Does the government intend to take over? The government agreement provides that the Minister of Employment may use circulars to achieve the desired balance between the purchasing power of workers and the competitiveness of enterprises. Do you intend to use this faculty?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u25	Madam Chair, Minister, the issue of the wage margin as defined this year is the result of the 2017 amendment to the 1996 Act, which makes it impossible to accurately analyze the wage difference between the surrounding countries. On the other hand, there is always talk of the disability of the past. A catch-up margin is foreseen. As was pointed out, if this margin were not taken into account, the margin would be 0.9%. This margin, however, remains totally insufficient. An indicative margin would be necessary. Indeed, I am wrong when it comes to suggesting that there is a lack of accountability on the part of trade union organisations in the sectors. The priority of the latter has always been employment. It is of course important to be able, depending on the capacity of the sector or company, to negotiate freely in order to take account of the fair returns of the added value brought by the workers involved in production. Given the context of the current crisis, it is clear that if we are to maintain a necessary social peace, it is essential to provide an indicative margin by leaving the responsibility for negotiations to sectors and businesses. Some believe that the solution would be to abolish the 1996 Act. Even if indexation is not only linked to the latter, but also to collective agreements, I would like to bet with whom I wish that if the principle of automatic indexation and the evolution of scales were to be called into question in law, in many sectors employers would inevitably denounce agreements to challenge wage indexation. In my view, the 1996 law needs to be revised in order to allow for freedom of negotiation. We must no longer talk about the handicap of the past, which no longer makes any sense today. As I have pointed out, what matters is free negotiation. This is the responsibility of the social partners with real consultation rather than a semblance of consultation. Indeed, everyone knows that the position of employers is to say that they never have enough. Freedom of negotiation must be guaranteed, taking into account the economic and social realities of sectors and enterprises. I therefore appeal to the minister to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u26	Minister, I'm sorry about this morning, a bit shaky!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u27	Madam President, thank you. I hope that this heat movement does not bode well for the outcome of the negotiations on the interprofessional agreement! Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the interprofessional agreement is an extremely important act in the process of social consultation. It defines the margin of the evolution of the wage cost during the two years it will cover, as well as measures to promote employment, provisions to reduce the wage gap between men and women or objectives relating to the training of workers. From experience, we know that such an agreement is never easily concluded. It requires a subtle balance between trade unions and employers' representatives. This balance is even more difficult to achieve in times of economic turmoil, such as the current crisis. This exercise is even more complicated today, since the amendments to the 1996 Act that took place in 2017. I understand of course the impatience of all here and, in a way, I share it. However, I am convinced that the social partners can reach an agreement. Contrary to what some have suggested, none of the partners at this stage said that they were leaving the negotiating table permanently. I believe that some of the expressions of the last few hours attest to this willingness to quickly dialogue, discuss and negotiate. The 1996 Law provides that the social partners will have two months from the publication of the report of the Secretariat of the Economic and Social Council to reach a consensus. Only when there is no agreement will the government propose conciliation. The report was published on 14 January, so we are only 11 days later. So let us give time to social dialogue. Some have asked me about the contents of the report of the secretariat of the Central Economic Council. I do not think it is up to me to comment on this report. I would simply like to commend the work that has been done by the Central Council and its secretariat in particular, under particularly complex conditions and deadlines, in order to arrive at such a report. I won't comment on the content, I said. Doing so could keep us away from an agreement and I am convinced that it is not what you want, more than I do. I should like to point out that I am currently making every effort to ensure that the social partners reach an agreement. I am increasing informal and formal contacts with representatives of the various organizations. Be aware that this Wednesday I meet the two benches, so that each one can clarify and clarify his or her point of view. Secondly, I will try to bring these points of view closer together. I believe that my role must be that of a facilitator. This will not surprise you: I consider that at this stage I should not be a substitute for the necessary social consultation. Of course, as Mr Bombled has mentioned, if the social partners reach an agreement, I will do everything possible to ensure that it succeeds. I'll be creative for that. You have been many to recall that the government agreement states that the use of circulars, in consultation with the social partners, will be preferred. These circulars, or their possibility, give us a margin of manoeuvre which, as you know, does not exist in the law. I will of course use it if necessary, in accordance with the agreement reached between the parties of the majority in order to be able, creatively and in the exceptional circumstances that are known, to give life to a social agreement between the social partners. As regards the distribution of wealth, the Prime Minister made it clear at his meeting with the Group of Ten that an agreement between the social partners would be expected by the end of January. If we ever had to take on our responsibilities, it is of course that the government will. But the will is that the social partners, whether on the interprofessional agreement or on the distribution of the welfare envelope, can reach an agreement. But if this is not the case, it is clear that the ministers concerned, namely Minister Lalieux, Minister Vandenbroucke and I, will propose to the government a distribution of the envelopes, as provided for in the law. But the priority is, of course, and I repeat, that the social partners can reach agreements, whether on the welfare envelope or on the interprofessional agreement, or on a whole series of important topics. We have already mentioned some of them this morning, which will be submitted to the social partners in the coming days, weeks and months. I think, moreover, that reading the statements of both on the union bench or on the employer bench, they are aware that beyond the interprofessional agreement, that beyond the distribution of the welfare envelope, they will have to get around the table and negotiate a series of agreements on important topics within the world of work and enterprise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u28	Minister, you have the incredible gift of not saying anything in a very friendly way for a long time. It is a gift like another, and in politics it may be worth something, but of course you haven't said anything. I heard Mr Goblet calling for account to be taken of today's social reality. I would like to hear that appeal, because I just think that the trade unions are taking too little account of that today. It has never been more important to monitor the competitiveness of our companies than it is now. I think that the fact that interlocutors do not even sit at the table at the first meeting is a very bad signal. You say that it is not easy to reach an agreement, but sitting together to negotiate is the least. Minister, you have a great deal of faith in social dialogue. You have now used that term about fifty times, so I think you have broken even the number of the coalition agreement. There is no doubt that we will come back to this, and we will see whether it is with or without agreement. However, I am curious to see how you will deal with this in this government, without any prior direction whatsoever. To be continued, hopefully with equal kindness, but a slightly more substantive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Like you, we attach great importance to social dialogue, and it is good that you want to give it all the opportunities. It is not just about wage developments, because other important agreements are being made, including on education and equality between men and women, but I am also thinking of the framework for the future, such as telework. For us, it is quite clear that the wage standard law certainly does not make social consultation easier in these times, partly in view of the entanglement of that law in 2017. We understand that, as a result of the crisis, some companies are really having a hard time. On the other hand, several companies have done very well and there are companies where workers, even with health risks, have tried very hard. We think they should have their share of the cake, they should be rewarded for the hard work they have done. An indicative wage standard can thus facilitate social consultation. The results in the sector or companies will enable further negotiations to take place. I think, in order to facilitate, there will have to be very creative handling of the circular letters, so that the workers will be rewarded for their hard work during all these months, with health risks, to turn our economy around. I am pleased that a different timing has been set for the welfare envelope and that a proposal should therefore be made by the end of January. In order to achieve this, computer programs must also be adapted. It is very important that benefits are also adapted to prosperity. This usually happens on 1 January, 1 May and 1 September. If that is to be done by 1 May, then everything must be on the verge of being done, then at the end of January it will be a correct deadline for a proposal so that everything can be carried out and the increase will be on the benefit recipients' account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u30	I thank the Minister for the answers he has given, particularly on the state of consultation. I hear the steps you are taking to encourage each of the partners to succeed, while respecting and trusting the ability of the social partners to dialogue and achieve a result. Trust, of course! I also hear your wish to make use of the circulars, as defined in the government agreement. So you have set it up, in consultation with the social partners and the government. Indeed, I agree with you that it is not foolish to believe that we could adapt them to different sectors. I am thinking of debates that we have had in relation to support for crucial sectors, some of which were not affected in the same way as others by the crisis. I am thinking, for example, of the large distribution where the impact of the crisis has been less important and where there are many small wages and part-time work. But this is one sector among others of course. With regard to the creative dimension of circulars, you pointed out that they can bring creativity to social dialogue. I would like to invite you to do so and to go back to the indicative dimension of the social standard, because, let us recall, a few years ago, there was a question of up to 6% to 8% increase in wage bargaining. Today, we are in another world. It makes sense for us to adapt to the reality of certain sectors and companies. This has happened in some places. There are margins and a willingness on the part of both employers and workers to share productivity gains. It's been seen in the past. We can trust everyone to take responsibility. I thank you for this state of affairs. I hear you want to strike a balance, which I'm joining you in. I encourage you to explore the path of creativity through the circulars.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u31	Minister, your answer is hot and cold. You say that you continue to respect consultation, to ensure that you are a facilitator, etc. In my opinion, you cannot hide behind this: you must take a stand. I don't hear that! You're talking about being creative, but the right in your government is creative and it was. It tightened the 1996 Act in 2017. What do you think of this hardening? You do not comment on the balance to be struck between the parties at the level of an agreement. In recent years, the proportion of GDP - I am talking about the percentage for wages and profits - has shown a 2.6% decrease in wages, while there is a 2.4% increase in profits. You say you're creative. But how do you position yourself against these two figures? How do you intend to rebalancing? You didn't say anything about it. There could, of course, be a debate on the left - the position of the right on the subject is quite clear - on whether to revise or abolish indexation. Obviously no one here wants to question wage indexation, a fairly unique process in Europe. At the same time, this indexation has been called into question in the past. Index jumps were imposed by the right, and the 1996 law did not protect workers of this kind of initiative. As far as we are concerned, we do not agree with the fact that the abolition of the 1996 Act could fundamentally call indexation into question, but that does not prevent a debate on the issue. In any event, you did not comment on this point. What do you mean when you say you want to be creative? As far as the welfare envelope is concerned, you must also respect what is contained in your programme, but also in the government agreement on increasing social benefits. As a socialist minister, are you going to hit the nail to stop this blackmail from wanting to join the welfare envelope in the debate on the IPA? You don't pronounce yourself on the subject. As a left-wing party, we would like you to speak on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answer. You are convinced that the social partners will reach an agreement. I also believe that time must be given and that social dialogue will eventually succeed. It is the safeguard of the solvency of our companies that is in sight and the purchasing power of consumers. As has already been pointed out by some colleagues, the health crisis we are experiencing places emphasis on inequalities between sectors. Some sectors experience contrasting situations. Some are still at a standstill, while others have been able to continue to exercise since the beginning of the crisis. Therefore, should the wage margin proposed by the NTC be the same for all or should it differ from sector to sector? This is a question that will also have to be answered. But it takes a little time. We're only at the beginning of the negotiations. As you pointed out, they are put in brackets but they are not interrupted. Everyone is counting on you to manage to reunite the different parts around the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'll make some clarifications. First, the relationship to well-being must be determined by 15 September. And it is not normal to systematically examine the relationship to well-being at the same time as the negotiation of the interprofessional agreement, only to ensure that it does not go directly into the substance of the matter. On the other hand, I would like to point out that interprofessional negotiations concern certain aspects: the margin, the question of the minimum wage, employment, training and harmonisation between the statutes of men and women. In addition, career ends are elements that are also part of the interprofessional framework. Secondly, there are sectoral negotiations, or even business negotiations, where it is imperative to have an indicative margin, because the reality is not the same in all sectors or in all enterprises. I would like to say to Mrs Van Peel that, contrary to what she thinks, trade union organisations are sufficiently responsible to know where they can negotiate wage increases and where they cannot. I can even assure you that sometimes, in certain sectors or companies, depending on economic reality, even a margin of 0.4% is not reached. I can give you a demonstration of this by saying in which area this can happen or not. What is important is that if we want to have a social dialogue worthy of this name, we must have trust between the social partners. And this confidence certainly cannot be established when a government, as the previous government did, locks down the 1996 law by preventing all the freedoms of negotiation, since everything was determined by law. It would be wise, this time, to move forward through circulars to better align the 1996 law with the realities we are going to face. If, in the crisis in which we find ourselves, we do not want to add to a health crisis not only an economic crisis but a social crisis, it is imperative, depending on the realities of the various sectors, to allow free negotiation through an indicative wage margin. I understand that the minister must first allow the procedure to continue until an agreement is reached between the social partners. Otherwise, proposals will have to be made to the social partners and even a decision will have to be taken. But I hope that this will not happen, as in 2015-2016, where the conciliation meeting between the Group of 10 and the Kern of the time, came down to say that an agreement had been reached between the eight, considering that the negotiations had been concluded. It was not taken into account that the FGTB, at that time, had challenged the proposal of 0.5 and 0.3 with the index jump. If we want to avoid indexing, we need to be careful. I repeat again: in the absence of a law, collective agreements will fall back, and at that time employers will have the freedom to denounce the agreements and to question the indexation of wages. I think that this debate deserves further reflection, and to go beyond a few considerations which are sometimes somewhat short in the analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u34	Minister, I was right when I told you that it was good for you to take a stand. Then you'll do whatever you want. I hear the MR here in committee. My colleague is asking things in the form of a question, but following the policy that was carried out under the previous Michel government, we can still imagine that he has the answer to his questioning. He says: "Cala is worth having a debate to know in which sector we are going to give increases and in which no". I interpret this as a lack of willingness to guarantee that this interprofessional agreement is something very important, to protect in our country. I am interested in your opinion: will you really protect him, how far will you go and how? How are you going to impose yourself in the Vivaldi government? You're talking about the circular. I was wondering if she was superior to the law. Is there not a danger that a circular might not be accepted because it goes beyond the 1996 Act? I will end by saying that the social partners are calling on you to take a real stand. They also announced that if this wage margin did not go any further than the figures on the table, they were considering actions. We want to encourage them. We can see that when we obtained a surplus in this interprofessional agreement, we had to go through the struggle each time. They will be able to count on the PTB at their side. Merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u35	Madam President, I would first like to apologize for my absence. I assumed that both questions would be dropped on the agenda because last week I asked both the question on telework and the question on wage standards in plenary, but I was called to see me here, so here I am. Minister, last week we were able to talk briefly about this in plenary. At that time, you also chose to give plenty of opportunities to social dialogue, which I have now heard in your reply. It seems very important to me at this early stage to do so. However, I am a little shocked when I hear colleagues here, certainly from the majority, arguing for indicative wage standards and other things. I didn't think this was in the coalition agreement. Last week you yourself referred to creative solutions, of which there are some within the 1996 law. There's also a safety margin. We knew that this discussion would be difficult because we still have a very serious economic question mark. We are having a discussion here today, there is also discussion with the social partners, while no one knows what the coming weeks and months will bring. Economically, we are still fully supporting, but what will be the consequences when the support is phased out? What will be the effects on the labour market, also in function of competitiveness of our companies? Who knows what additional measures we will have to take in the coming weeks, although I hope not, and what their impact will be on our labour market. In the context of competition too, the impact on our companies could be very significant. In this sense, it is important to show the necessary creativity and flexibility and to take time. I hear a lot of references here to the past, including colleagues Goblet and Moscufo. I sometimes read that people would be satisfied with 1.1. As a minister, I tried to unblock the 1.1 that was not adopted by some of the social partners in the previous agreement. In that sense, we all have some responsibility. The social dialogue must now be able to play a full part. In the coming weeks and months we will certainly be discussing this, but let us first see where the social dialogue takes us. I have no problem with creative solutions, but within the framework that is on the table today, there are also a lot to be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u36	Minister, would you like to respond to what has just been said or can we continue and move on to the next question? [[Minister's assessment]] Colleagues, I have to make it clear that the minister will have to leave us at 12:30. Questions that could not have been dealt with today can be transformed into written questions. If this is the case, this should be done officially via an e-mail to the secretariat indicating the number of the question(s) you wish to turn into written questions. If you wish to obtain a faster response through a less formal channel, I invite you to address yourself directly to the minister's office, in particular by e-mail. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that committee secretaries do not have the opportunity to go through a path other than the one I have just mentioned. I would also like to point out that, in the case of joint questions, all concerned must agree that they can be transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u37	Madam President, first of all, I would like to comment on your explanation. It seems that some of the questions will not be dealt with again today, although they have already been discussed twice. The intention of an oral question is still that there is a form of debate. A question is asked, the Minister answers, and the Member can replicate. The systematic transposition of oral questions which cannot be dealt with in written questions cannot actually be the rule. I still think it is important that oral questions can be put. We must now note that the time allocated to put oral questions to Minister Dermagne is actually too short in relation to the number of oral questions tabled. I would urge you not to limit the questioning sessions with Minister Dermagne to two-hour sessions in the course of the work. We need to think about making more time for this, so that it remains an exception that oral questions which cannot be dealt with are converted into written questions. However, I think it is important to indicate this, especially as questions continue to move forward and cannot or cannot be dealt with more often.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u38	We have accumulated so much delay that it is sometimes difficult to deal with remote issues in time, but given that the minister is now coming every fortnight and that on February 9, he will come in the afternoon, I will see with his cabinet if he can stay as long as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u39	Madam President, thank you for joining me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u40	My question runs the risk of being 'empty', as it was filed a while ago. However, it is no less important. In an investigation into serious social fraud involving the so-called corona unemployment benefits, 25 people were arrested for interrogation a few weeks ago. Suspects would have wrongly applied for and obtained unemployment benefits by abusing the identity of hundreds of people. Other fraudsters then received benefits in their own name, although they were not actually entitled to them. Firstly, Minister, I would not, of course, invite you or tempt you to violate the secret of the investigation, to the extent that you could already do so. Can you give some explanation of the mechanisms used when it comes to organised fraud for one or more actors or organisations? Which methods were used in concrete terms? Was this a fraud for the benefit of the employer, the employee or a beneficiary? Secondly, through which payout institutions were the fraudulent payments provided? Have the payout institutions contributed in a certain way to detecting fraud? Over the past few months, temporary unemployment benefits have been increased in different ways in the context of the corona crisis. I won't go over them all. Access was also facilitated. My question is then obvious. Does this not contribute to increasing the sensitivity to fraud of temporary unemployment benefits? If you believe that this is the case, do you intend to take this into account today and in the coming months and to adapt the benefits and accessibility of temporary unemployment so that the risk of fraud can be reduced? Finally, there would be false Dimonas, using people's identities to receive temporary unemployment benefits. Can you give more information about the resources and possibilities that the RSZ and the RVA have today to identify and track Dimonas under a false identity? Are these resources and possibilities sufficient, or should they be used in order to increase the possibilities for combating fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u41	Mr Anseuw, the dossier to which you refer concerns a case of highly organised social fraud. Some companies introduced retroactive Dimonas for persons whose identity appears to have been misused. As soon as the Dimonas were completed, an application was submitted to the Auxiliary Cash for Unemployment Benefits (HVW) or another payout institution for the payment of the corona benefits. In this way, the identity of hundreds of people was abused. Other persons have received benefits in their name, while they would not be entitled to them. The fraud has an impact on all payout settings. However, it is not yet possible to provide information on how fraud has been detected. The increase in the number of temporary unemployment benefits does not automatically increase the risk of abuse. Access to the benefit was indeed relaxed, but this choice was made to pay an unseen number of temporary unemployed on time. Since Dimona is the first signal with which an employer indicates that an employee is employed, the RSZ cannot verify remotely whether the employment relationship exists effectively. Checks can only be carried out afterwards, as Dimona is submitted when the employee starts working.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u42	Mrs. Reuter, you had an attached question. Excuse me, I didn't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u43	Mr Anseeuw spoke immediately and I did not want to cut him off. I imagine the minister's answer is complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u44	Madam President, I can complete my answer. Mrs Reuter, it is clear that the situation we are experiencing, and that is what I have just said to Mr Anseeuw, can benefit ill-intentioned people or criminal organisations, as was the case in the case of Mr Anseeuw's question. But I confirm that the inspection services are doing everything in their power to avoid abuse. All companies and workers are subject to computer controls and/or administrative checks. If an anomaly is detected, an investigation is immediately conducted. These surveys show that the vast majority of businesses and employees comply with the regulations. On the basis of checks, certain frauds, including the one mentioned earlier in reply to Mr Anseew, have been discovered. It has been terminated and legal proceedings have been initiated. I would like to take this opportunity to commend all the inspection services for their work in these difficult times. They did not count their hours, their days, their weeks, both in order to enforce the health standards corona but also the provisions on temporary unemployment in particular. I have at the disposal of all Members of Parliament a table showing the different control figures, be they health standards, telework controls, but also inspections carried out with regard to compliance with the provisions concerning the various allowances. I'm happy to give it to you. This will provide you with the latest figures on the checks and infringements found.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. However, you have not answered my question as to whether this should not be more finer given the sensitivity of fraud in the light of the easing of temporary unemployment in times of corona. It is my personal opinion that finery is becoming more and more appropriate here, not only because of the fraud sensitivity of the measure, but also because of the more effective use of federal socio-economic support measures. I also have an additional question. You said that no information can be provided on how fraud is detected or detected. Does that mean that you do not consider this desirable, because you do not want to give away the advantages that the government has in order to detect fraud? You're nodding. I understand. Then I think it is important to consider in Parliament the way in which Members can get an answer to that question, without throwing out all the knowledge and skills in the field of fraud detection. I am not insensitive to this concern, but that does not mean that we cannot get answers to such questions. Madam President, can we think in our committee about a way in which we can get answers to such questions without putting people with bad intentions on the right track to fraud as much as possible? I share that concern with the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u46	Mr Anseeuw, of course there are possibilities in the committee. If we wish, we will of course be able to return. I give the floor to Mrs Reuter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answers because the figures I had mentioned were an investigation in three that confirmed fraud. It's huge! I would therefore indeed be pleased to have this table in order to be able to examine these figures further. I would like to make sure that these figures have decreased significantly since the strengthening of controls. I agree with you on the work done because, while this temporary unemployment has been set up to help companies and workers cope with the shock of this health crisis, the aim is obviously not to get rich on the back of the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u48	Mrs Reuter, we can come back to the issue of data, which may require work different from what we have traditionally done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u49	Madam President, Minister, I will briefly ask my questions because I want to be sure that I get an answer to every question. Indeed, it concerns the application and scope of the Law of 15 July, in particular the part which provides for relaxed access to unemployment for artists and workers in the cultural and event sectors. I'd like to have an update. How many applications were submitted? How much did you get a positive answer and how much did you get a negative? What were the deadlines within which a reply was given? Can you provide a breakdown by language role of the number of applications granted or not? A further question concerns the assessment of how many people could actually benefit from this relaxed access to unemployment benefit. How large is the estimated target audience? How many people were budgeted for this measure? Minister, I looked again at the opinion of the Court of Auditors at the time. On the basis of the reference period from 1 April 2019 to 1 April 2020, the Court of Auditors estimated that there were 7,186 people who had at least 20 artistic working days during that reference period and were therefore not taken into account by the existing regulations at that time. I also did not get an answer to an earlier question about the list used by the RVA to approve or not approve applications. After all, I know of people who did receive the Flemish premium, but were rejected by the RVA. This question dates from a while ago, but I have not yet received an answer to it. What further steps have you taken since your discussion in the context of your policy statement and policy paper, in addition to recruiting additional staff at the Auxiliairekas and a number of issues related to digitisation at the Auxiliairekas? What, for example, have you done in terms of communication or slimmer procedures?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u50	Mr. De Smet asks to be excused. He can't join us. His question is therefore irrelevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u51	Minister, on Friday, 22 January, the Colloquium Conference did not set out concrete prospects for the cultural sector. That's the least we can say. While we can, of course, understand all the health problems that are taking place today and will be played over the next few weeks, it is no less difficult for the sector to have no prospect of a reopening future. You'll agree, I guess. Minister, I know you are very sensitive about these issues. Therefore, at a minimum, would it not be necessary to anticipate the end of the exceptional measures scheduled for 31 March 2021? It is known that the deadlines become too short than to consider the recovery for all as early as 1 April. Can you send a reassuring message to the sector? Moreover, if the freeze on the renewal of status is still scheduled for 31 March 2021, how do you envisage the risk of chaos within payment agencies when artists wish to renew the evil called "artist status"? In all cases, do you envisage transitional measures, since cultural recovery cannot take place overnight? Are you considering other possible measures, even if a recovery is announced? What are your concrete proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u52	Ladies, thank you for your questions, as well as to Mr. From Smet who had also filed one. I share your concerns about workers in the cultural sectors, and the need to be able to quickly give them opportunities, which I hope will be encouraging. I, too, hope to be able to return to the theatre, to the cinema and to attend a concert as soon as possible, and to be able to benefit from this indispensable contribution to the community life that culture brings us in all its richness and diversity. A total of 328 applications were submitted until 28 December 2020, 318 of which were answered positively and 10 negative. The RVA dealt with 92 % of applications within 10 days of receipt of the complete file. In addition, 4 applications were processed more than 13 days after receipt. No other statistical data are available and it is also difficult to estimate the potential number of rightholders. The Law of 15 July 2020 lays down the application of the measure and provides for a margin for derogations. The regulation thus defines what is to be understood as artistic activity and technical activity in the artistic sector. In order to ensure rapid and uniform treatment of applications, the RVA has drawn up a list of activities that comply with the definitions. It is not a exhaustive list, it is rather a list of the artistic and technical activities the RVA has already faced. The list takes into account the constant case law of the Artists Committee of which the RVA is a member. I'll get you this list. Regarding the extension of the provisions of the law, as you know, the decree of 20 December 2020 extending the measures taken by the law of 15 July improving the status of workers in the cultural sector was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 11 January last. This decree, adopted pursuant to Article 7 of the Law of 15 January, came into effect from 1 January 2020. It has thus extended the measures taken in favour of the cultural sector until 31 March 2021, but it is clear that, in the light of developments in the health situation and the decisions taken by the Conciliation Committee, in consultation with the federated entities, with regard to cultural competence, it is envisaged to extend the benefits of these measures beyond 31 March 2021. With regard to your more specific question, Madam President, on the renewal of the status after the crisis measures, I have already made contact with the ONEM and the payment agencies in order to manage the situation as best as possible and to take into account the specificities of workers in this sector but also the circumstances of the crisis of confinement and the cessation or even the prohibition of part of the activities. This is being given special attention in order to ensure that these activities can be resumed as quickly as possible, I hope, taking into account the particularities of the status of artists or the status of workers in the cultural sector on which we are also working. The will is really that there is no delay or difficulty for these workers at the time of recovery.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The number of applications with the majority of which received a positive response is increasing. Honestly, it remains low when I compare the figure with the target group envisaged at the time in the Court of Auditors' report. I keep wondering why, and I think we all have that question. Above all, I hope that these are people who have found a different solution, who have had a different right to other forms of support. The Court of Auditors' report showed that it was about people who couldn't go anywhere else. I hope that after all these months everyone will be sufficiently aware of the existence of this measure. I also see that the deadline at the RVA goes fairly smoothly. We have all gotten the many stories in our mailbox from some difficult interaction between the payout settings and the RVA, with difficulties in getting everything ready in time, files that were exchanged and so on. We continue to monitor this and we will continue to look for elements that can explain why few people have submitted applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u54	As far as I am concerned, I thank you for your answers, Minister. I know you are sensitive to these questions and I know that few concrete answers are available to date. I don't know how and in what format we can take over, but the performing arts sector was particularly concerned, which is understandable. It is a good thing to know that as far as renewal is concerned, the situation has been anticipated. This is good news, also for workers in payment funds. As far as the transitional measures are concerned, I have not heard a concrete proposal, but I imagine that does not mean that no thought has been given in this regard. We will still be able to discuss this in this Parliament at a later stage, because, as regards extension or transitional measures, it will probably have to be discussed in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u55	It's now 12:32, and I think the minister said he had to leave us at 12:30. Mr. Anseew, I am informed that you have noted something in the cat. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u56	I had another question about what concrete action would now be taken. On the question I have raised, for example, the Minister does not consider it desirable, for obvious reasons, for the public to reply to it. What concrete action will be taken when? Could I have the answer to that question? I'm very curious. You have said that there are other possibilities. However, what possibilities will be used to ensure that the answer is effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u57	If you agree, I suggest that you make direct contact with the minister's office. I think there are possibilities for holding in camera meetings, which, as a result, involve a number of conditions. I need to look at the feasibility of that. If you allow me to do so, having never checked in the Rules of Procedure in concrete terms how all this should be done, I will contact Parliament's departments and the cabinet. I'll come back to you, ideally already tomorrow perhaps, or next week in case I don't find an answer immediately. Does that suit you?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. To conclude completely, I would like to come back to a point I made earlier. I welcome the fact that more time will be allocated on 9 February to answer questions. I would ask not to evolve into a system where every so much time, every month or one and a half months, a session is held in which all the saved questions are answered, because then there are only old-fashioned questions on the agenda. It is the intention of an oral question, even under the Rules of Procedure, that it is somewhat topical. It is nice if the question is still topical when it can be answered. I would therefore ask that more time be provided for questions to be answered in a structural manner, so that questions are less besieged or become old-fashioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u59	Minister Dermagne undertook to come twice a month, on the second and fourth Tuesdays of the month. For now, he's sticking to it. The appointments have already been made for the month of February. Normally, on this question, it should roll!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u60	Madam President, you will agree that my speaking time has been somewhat shortened by the circumstances and the alarms. With regard to Mr Anseeeuw's question on inspection services, I might be able to suggest that we organise them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u61	Yes, indeed, it would be a good thing to receive some proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u62	A presentation with the inspection services could be interesting, which requires a somewhat more confidential framework given the information that will be passed on to the members of the commission. I agree with Mr. Anseeuw's request. It is legitimate and normal for parliamentarians to be aware of the inspection control mechanisms. However, it must be organised and it will take a little time to make some proposals that I already have the idea of.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic347x.u63	So I'll come back to you, Minister.
