ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u2	Madam President, Prime Minister, what a farce, what an empty box! I have seen a great deal in this House over the past two years, but this defies all imagination. Last year, with your government statement, you assured us that there would be a decision on the extension of lifespan in November. A few weeks ago Tinne Van der Straeten shamelessly denied that. November suddenly became 'this year' and today we have to establish that you are further bogged down in indecision. We still don't know anything, because the FANC has yet to begin its report and you will not make a final decision until March. On verra, we'll see later, but first let's have a nice Christmas. The security of supply and affordability of our energy are apparently concerns for later, you are already on the Christmas menu with your thoughts. A few weeks ago, you indicated that a lifetime extension would no longer be possible, while yesterday, during the works council of Engie Electrabel, it came to light that this could be done if five important conditions were met, such as the amendment of the law on the core exit and the KB on safety. Prime Minister, what are you waiting for? By postponing the decision for another three months, you are making it more difficult for yourself and, above all, for the people. After all, you handed Tinne Van der Straeten, who, because of her own involvement, cannot objectively look at the file, the umpteenth trophy last night. The chances of anything else becoming possible are getting smaller every day. In return, you sent the MR home with a consolation price: some research around the SMRs without any guarantee. This is not an agreement, ladies and gentlemen, but a fake agreement. Anything for appearances. You wanted the file settled in 2021, so why is it being postponed again?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u3	Madam President, Prime Minister, I do not know if it is already an excess of log or Christmas turkey, but it is a fact: the decision that seems to have fallen this night is rather indigestible and not understandable. If we understand correctly, it is Scenario A that wins, unless the CRM that is being revived does not produce the expected result or the AFCN, which could suddenly release a report from its hat, tells us that it is possible to extend the nuclear power plants. This is again the most complete confusion! We were waiting for a clear decision by November. We were waiting for a clear decision by December. Now, it seems that the MR is getting - through his sixteenth minister in the government, Mr.Bouchez - the postponement of this decision in March. But of course it is quite improbable because we have been told for months that this decision will be too late. Then light up our lantern! For our part, at the CDH, we have always been clear: the two nuclear reactors must be extended. They must be extended for 20 years; it is indeed an important investment, but it is much better than having that insecurity that we have today. This is much better than having these millions of tons of carbon released into the atmosphere by aggravating the climate crisis, Minister of Energy. This is much better than the current uncertainty and the increasing risk of blackout in electricity. So, I hope you'll reassure us, but I have to tell you that, in the face of the tweeted interventions, and the Minister of Energy and the President of the MR, we are in full confusion. Instead, we feel like small political games. We have the impression that our security of supply has been largely forgotten in recent weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u4	Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, you have gone into the night with much confusion and uncertainty. Some felt that the nuclear power stations should remain open and it seemed a bit like it could go in all directions. The government made a decision last night. Plan A, the end of the seven nuclear power plants in our country, is confirmed and strengthened. The Vivaldi government's compass is sharp, chooses the future and goes for 100 % renewable energy in this country. It has not been decided to extend the life of nuclear power plants. The law on the core exit is not amended. The auction for the replacement capacity shall not be re-organised. Plan A, the core exit, is confirmed. At the same time, there is currently no clarity on security of supply. You can't. It depends on the approval of the replacement capacity by governments other than the federal ones. It's gonna take time. That is why security of supply is monitored in a tight timetable. We want 100 % guarantee, no risk at all. Of course, that's good governance. The opposite would surprise you. But there too, the chronology is clear. If the power plant in Vilvoorde, one of the most advanced projects in Europe, is not licensed by the Flemish Government, the government will opt for the following alternative projects of the auction. I can confirm that this is the consequence of last night's decision. I would like to conclude with something that is not sufficiently addressed in this debate: innovation. Innovation and the energy transition go hand in hand. The economic potential is enormous. Already, our country is a precursor to renewable energy and offshore. Colleagues, the dogmatic attitude....
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u5	Prime Minister, Minister, a decision was taken and an agreement on the further path to be followed is under the Christmas tree. It's not a nuclear trip. It's the road to a nuclear transition. During the press conference, you both rightly confirmed the role and technology of the SCK in small modular reactors. After all, climate neutrality will not be achieved on the basis of renewable energy alone. That was never said during the COP. Nuclear energy will also be part of our energy mix in the future, if only through imports from our neighbouring countries. Nuclear power plants have an end to life. At present, this may be 2025, as planned. As Minister for Energy, you are right to have the task of properly examining Plan B, the extension of the lifetime of two nuclear power plants as a back-up. Finally. One should never exclude options based on ideological preference. Keeping all options open makes you stronger in the negotiations anyway. Shouldn't we have studied and worked out all the options? Definitely. Would we have had more freedom of negotiation? Probably. I note that some in this hemisphere have suddenly lost their memory of trying to regain the political virginity in this dossier. The predictions for 2025 are important. What are the next steps in preparing a long-term strategy with a differentiated energy mix? Will you put the CREG in its role as...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u6	Prime Minister, Minister, Plan A or Plan B, that is not the problem. The main problem in the dossier is that too long too much attention has been drawn from what it really is about, and that is the affordability of our energy prices. In the meantime, everyone knows that renewable energy is the energy form of the future affordable, reliable and clean. I understand that last night's agreement was necessary to move forward. It has become a very complex dossier, partly because of the sabotage of some people and because the previous government has not taken any decisions. The parties that have the core step in the previous government are now saying a lot about the two nuclear power plants as if they were going to solve all the problems. I don't understand. Do not tell me that these two nuclear power stations will save us from high prices. The power stations aren't doing that today either. Look at what's happening in France. That country is committed to nuclear energy and has the highest prices in Europe today. People don't need big statements about plan A or plan B. People need a plan that guarantees the affordability of the energy bill. That is what this must be about for Vooruit in the coming months. We're doing good things today. We protect 1 million families in our country at the social rate. That is a good thing, these are good measures. However, I can see that more and more families are concerned today about the level of energy prices. We have to do something about that, because we'll all feel that impact later. That's what I've been worried about for months. What I remember from this morning's press conference is the statement by the Minister of Energy to move forward on these decisions. Prime Minister, Minister, do you agree with me that the real commitment of the debate is the energy bill of our families?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u7	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister of Energy, the government met again yesterday in Kern to discuss the nuclear issue. In Plan 1, given the great uncertainty about the Vilvorde gas plant construction project, a new procedure will be initiated to identify, where appropriate, additional security of supply capabilities during the winter of 25-26 and subsequent years. "Nuclears are not closed and will have to act as a safety net." These are the terms used. The nuclear extension track for two gigas will be activated if the reopening of the auction fails to find a necessary capacity. In this context, an AFCN report is expected on January 17. There is a new appointment clause set for March 18th. The Council of Ministers has also decided that our country must invest in future nuclear energy research. Twenty-five million euros per year are earmarked for research and this is good news. Prime Minister, Minister of Energy, what production capacity are you going to put in place to ensure security of supply for the years 25-26 and beyond? How can we guarantee an affordable price for businesses and households? What legislative changes are you planning to launch a new auction? What are the guarantees for the maintenance of the human resources of Belgian expertise in nuclear matters and to support the new nuclear power plant?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, people and businesses are concerned. Their two main concerns for CD&V are also the main challenges in the energy debate. First, the lamp must remain on, both now and in 2025 and beyond. There can be no doubt about that. Shutdown plans or a blackout would be a disgrace to a country like Belgium. Secondly, the energy bill must be affordable for everyone. Unfortunately, we are facing very high prices today. Even though all the nuclear power plants are running in our country, our energy bill is swinging out of control. Ensuring security of supply and affordability is crucial for CD&V. However, there are still major challenges in the energy debate. Our country is one of the top in the field of nuclear expertise. We can and must all be proud of that. We must preserve and even encourage this knowledge, even after the core exit. Colleagues, nuclear technology is not standing still. We cannot have blinders and must be open to new developments. Small nuclear reactors which produce less waste can be a solution and we must not exclude it. We must prepare for this together with the SCK, so that Belgium does not miss opportunities. Colleagues, let us be clear. Nuclear technology still has an important future, even in our country, if it depends on CD&V. Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore facing a great many challenges. However, the way in which some have handled the energy file over the past few months, weeks and even hours is at least worrying. It's not a game to be punished. For us, the energy debate is not a game. We are all facing enormous challenges. The clock is ticking towards 2025. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u9	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, getting out of nuclear power is a choice of society and it is a choice that was made 20 years ago in the name of our safety and that of future generations. Get out of nuclear power, yes, but not at any price or any way. We Socialists have always been very clear: to move forward we need guarantees of security of supply, electricity prices and employment. We take note of the agreement reached in your Government and the new deadlines set. It is essential for us to obtain these guarantees. It is up to you to demonstrate that the government's choice is not dogmatic, but based on facts. Be aware that political quarrels, small victories or big defeats on Twitter do not interest people, they don't care! People what they want is to have electricity at home at a reasonable price. That's what counts above all else. It is up to you to put forward the facts that reassure you. As far as workers are concerned, what they want is to know what they are going to become. In this respect, you will have to live up to both the direct jobs for which there are solutions and the indirect jobs for which we will have to bring about clear solutions. In this regard, it is also not reasonable that the consequences of a choice made at the federal level are based exclusively on the shoulders of the Regions. Dialogue and support will therefore be required. Security of supply, prices, employment, Prime Minister, Minister, what are your answers to our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u10	Prime Minister, you concluded a fake agreement last night. You have begun to open up two nuclear power stations, and you have ended by perhaps keeping two nuclear power stations open. All you do is postpone everything for three months. But let us be honest, in three months' time that will still be as reckless in terms of security of supply as it is today and last year. In the meantime, your government partners are talking about what exactly has been decided. Some have even just asked you what has been decided.Are these nuclear power plants closed now, Green asks. Maybe they'll stay open, ask MR. Or has anything else been decided? Who else chooses to defend our families and our companies who will pay the price at the end of the journey? Prime Minister, when gas and CO2 prices are sky high, you say: we want more gas; we want more CO2. But who's gonna pay for that? With Open Vld in the lead, you say to our families and companies: you pay for it; we choose the most expensive solution, and you will pay for it. Mr Prime Minister, how can you defend this delay that you said to us was absolutely reprehensible? Why are you showing it yourself? Who's right about this story? Is it the greens: nuclear trip? Is it the blues: nuclear transition? Are those all the others: if necessary, keep them open and perhaps core entry? Are you going for 100 % renewable energy, what Green says? Or are you going to use those small modular power plants you want to build to produce electricity effectively? Prime Minister, what is it really?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u11	Mr Prime Minister, Mrs Van der Straeten, a whole night of negotiations has been held to decide nothing at the end of the day. At 8:12 p.m., you say that there is an agreement, Mrs Van der Straeten, and that the standstill ends. Nine minutes later, Mr Bouchez of the MR stated that there was no agreement at all and that nothing was decided at all. What exactly did you decide? At the press conference, you claim that there is an agreement, namely that you will close all nuclear power stations, unless you cannot close them all. That's the deal. Whose feet are you actually playing with? You are raving with the feet of all the Belgians, who still do not know what the energy future of our country is, but also with the feet of the 7,000 employees of the nuclear power stations and their subcontractors. What a circus that is! Those who play with our feet above all are ENGIE Electrabel. That company decides what can and cannot be done. That's pretty much punishment, isn't it? Two weeks ago, Mr De Croo, you were going to ask Electrabel exactly what it wants. Now we want EUR 900 million in subsidies, ping, in the pocket for new gas plants. Then Electrabel says it can't keep the nuclear power stations open. But now it appears that the plant in Vilvoorde is problematic, Electrabel fears that it might miss out on the subsidies. Pingping in the pocket, the nuclear power stations may still be open. That's real punishment. It does set conditions. For example, an economic framework must be created. What does that mean? Pingping, money in the pocket. After all, this means that we will have to come up with money again. This is the problem with energy policy in our country: it is always the multinationals that decide. They have more power than our four Energy Ministers put together. So, my question is: when will you finally (...)?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in making decisions like this, I base myself on facts and on what experts say. These are experts who can judge independently, such as Chris Peeters, the CEO of Elia, the company that manages the network and has to ensure security of supply. He attended this morning's press conference. I quote him: 'With this decision and with the route that has now been set out, with a fallback option at every checkpoint, we can', therefore,'state that again the conditions of security of supply are fulfilled'. That's what it's about in the end. An independent expert, who is responsible for security of supply, looks at the decision we took this night and says that security of supply is thereby ensured. You can give your opinion on this, but if someone says so, I hope that this will be somewhat echoed in Parliament and that you will be able to ignore the dogmatism of which some testify. The government was very clear in the coalition agreement, the core exit will be realised unless problems appear. Let us be clear, there was an auction that was first prepared with the European Commission, organized by Minister Van der Straeten. That auction was a success, again in the words of Elijah. It was then found that one of the projects that should be carried out was not licensed. That is indeed a piece of uncertainty that comes with it. So, what was the decision that was made? We thought, "If we face this problem, we'll see how to solve it." We give ourselves time until March 15 to verify which projects can be licensed. If it happens that Vilvorde does not have it, we will look at what other proposal submitted to the auction can be developed. Indeed, several projects with a permit have not been selected, although they are feasible. In a process of security of supply, and despite Mr Peeters saying that security of supply is guaranteed in his view, this government has decided to build an additional security after all. When it comes to security of supply, we can never build in too much security. So we're taking an additional step. If it turns out that there is still a deficit on 15 March, I want to be very clear about that, then we will look at all the options to remedy it. One of the things that one can look at is indeed the plan B, but we will look at all the options that are available. If on 15 March the auction is successful and the security of supply is achieved, as Mr Peeters says, we will turn the page and the plan B will be permanently buried. Let that be very clear. So far about the trial. Too often the energy dossier was based on discussions about what would be done next year or within two or three years. I note that there are long-term decisions in other countries. Well, for the first time, so do we. We make decisions about transition, but we also make decisions for the period 2040-2050, because then one has to produce in a completely carbon-neutral way. What do I determine? Our country looks at the different possibilities. With all the expertise we have in our country, we want to participate in research on the nuclear power plants of the future that are still experimental today. We are making EUR 100 million available for this and we are also ensuring that... (microphone is off)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u13	The question was whether security of supply is guaranteed. Mr Peeters said that this would guarantee security of supply. Above all, for the first time, there is a future perspective with which we look at innovation, which looks at the expertise we have and which legally ensures that we are part of the nuclear energy of the future. That's how we turn the page of the past. We are closing down the old power stations that have all kinds of problems and we are open to the future that can offer us a great deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u14	First, I'll go over the decisions we made with you last night. We will undoubtedly talk a lot about these decisions in the coming period. After all, each of these decisions has been worked out in a draft law. That is what this government is doing: taking decisions, taking action and moving forward. The first decision is to guarantee security of supply. We do this by implementing, strengthening and closing the CRM. We ensure that the replacement capacity that we need, which we always need, in all circumstances, is put in place effectively. That is why we have drawn up a draft law that will be adopted today in the Council of Ministers and sent to the Council of State, so that we can deal with it in committee in January. For example, a capacity that does not have a licence can be replaced by a capacity that does have a licence. Security of supply does not take any risks. As we have done for the past year, we have done it again this time and we have entered another evaluation session on 15 March. Even if we are unlikely to have to resort to it, we take that few percent doubt seriously. We're not just gonna leave it to the wild. We are also taking control of this, because that is what this government is doing. With our second decision, we manage not only the future, but also the past. The second draft approved today by the Council of Ministers has been expected for a long time in the Chamber, not least by Mr Warmoes's group, because it deals with the billion-dollar bill of decommissioning management, waste management and fissile materials. We ensure that the operator, ENGIE Electrabel, pays the invoice as a polluter. It is the most delicate yard in our country, with nominal costs of up to EUR 41 billion. This is also enshrined in a draft law submitted in Parliament, so that the taxpayer does not pay for it. Our third decision means that we are working on a climate-neutral energy system by 2050, with more electrification, more storage and more controllable capacity, all necessary. We do not start with this until 2045, as opposed to the last twenty years in which only tomorrow was decided. No, we're looking forward to 2030 today, 2040, 2050. All technologies that are sustainable and CO2 neutral have their place in this. That decision is not a piece of paper, because a technology assessment will be carried out by the best minds in our country, our researchers at SCK CEN, in order to develop a roadmap for these SMRs using clear criteria such as passive safety, non-proliferation, sustainability and waste. We create a framework for our researchers and companies. This also benefits our citizens, because, as Mr Ben Accour said, it is about the people's invoice today, about security for the people that the lamp stays on. When I became Minister, I often said that energy is far too often a story of trouble and torment, while it is a domain of opportunities, opportunities and challenges, as Mrs Dierick said. Energy is the key catalyst for prosperity, which ensures that we have a future with our country, a sustainable Belgium 2030, 2040, 2050.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u15	How dare you! How dare you come here today and say that you still have to have the FANC carry out the study on lifespan! How dare you send the people in with a bunch of shit by concluding this fake agreement! You must admit with your buttocks that the decision has been postponed again and is being lifted over New Year's Eve, so that we can all have a nice turkey and leave the people in the cold. There is no basis for a core exit: only 13 percent of the Flemings want it. Still, you're ignoring this signal. You are expected to be responsible, not to play a game with the security of supply and the affordability of our energy. The indecision and the bickering within Vivaldi do not serve the Flemish. To say it in the style of your chairman Lachaert: a government that is dead, you cannot continue to resuscitate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u16	Prime Minister, as I understand it, you are telling us that nuclear power is very widely buried - we have just added a few more shovels! I saw the MR applaud you on this very strong conviction. But I don't know what MR to believe anymore: Georges-Louis Boucher's, Twitter's or the one who applauds you here in Parliament. In any case, I note that the messages are extremely contradictory. Then you tell us that Chris Peeters confirmed security of supply to you. I like Chris Peeters very much, but now there's a new pythia that tells the government, the whole nation, that there's security of supply. Prime Minister, I would like to be aware of the report that was sent to your Minister of Energy a few weeks ago to find out what is the basis for saying that there is security of supply. What are the scenarios of consumption, production, import? On all this, we have absolutely no (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u17	Prime Minister, Minister, political responsibility is to take, and it is good that we have a government that is determined, but at the same time careful in the energy dossier. [[Tumult]] What strikes me today is that the opposition is extremely nervous, interrupts, calls. Of course, she wouldn't have liked to see an agreement last night. To the regret of those who envy it, there is an agreement and after twenty years of indecision, this government shows decisiveness. [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u18	Colleagues of the N-VA, you have not been able to make any decisions in the previous government. If you wanted to extend the life of the nuclear power plants, you should have. You didn't do that. The clock was ticking, we make the decisions, you didn't do it. [[Applause]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u19	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the short term we must secure our country's energy supply and ensure that our families and businesses can pay for their energy bills, without the government being hung over. In the long term, we need to make the transition to a carbon-neutral society. That is a difficult but inevitable path. However, it also offers many opportunities. I am pleased that Mr van Groen, as well as the Minister and Prime Minister, recognise the importance of innovation. At the time, the Club of Rome predicted that there would be no fossil fuels anymore. Prime Minister, as you said, we can only seize those opportunities by dropping dogmas and being maneuverable. If nuclear energy still gets a green label, then we're all there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u20	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. I hope that the agreement and the timing will allow us to put the debate on nuclear power stations behind us. Moreover, we are talking about much more than energy production; tomorrow we will have to talk about energy efficiency and insulation in Parliament. Today I see that N-VA is cheerful about the fact that we are having trouble getting the file around. But that party has never been able to bring about a decision in the file; it has sabotaged it itself. Today is laughing, vultures, roaring. Do you really think people at home are laughing? Mr Warmoes says here that all Belgians are asking the question what it is going to be, but that is not true. They do wonder how all the governments in our country will protect them from high energy prices. That's what today's about. And they think about the political games here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u21	Minister, Prime Minister, we can agree on one thing: we don't play with the supply and we don't play with the prices. I hear that the agreement opens the door to nuclear power as an alternative. We are happy with that and happy to see that we are going to invest in new nuclear research. This is fundamental and I welcome this agreement. I would like to quote from all politicians a French proverb: "There are only fools who do not change their minds." Philippe Geluck added: "That is my opinion. And I don't see why I'd change it."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u22	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. We must not take risks with our security of supply. It is therefore a good thing that all ideas, both plan A and plan B, are further investigated. However, we are asking that there should be clarity quickly and that there should be final clarification, because there are still a lot of challenges on the agenda. The lamp must not only remain on, the invoice must also be affordable for everyone. The federal government has already taken good measures, such as the extension of the social tariff and the energy standard. However, the middle class also gets difficult to pay the energy bill and that is independent of the core exit. That is also what we need to tackle and work together for action. At the same time, we must be open to technological evolution. Carbon-neutral energy production, including via SMR, should also be possible in Belgium. CD&V is also in favour of this. The agreement meets our conditions. We support it and immediately make a call: stop the discussion and start implementing the plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u23	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. It must be recognized that some people spend a great deal of energy to discredit the work of the government, even those who were in command in the previous government and who could have done quite something else. They didn't! This issue is very important and requires a serious and effective approach. The members of the government must work together to find effective solutions that are favourable to all Belgians. As the head of this government, it is up to you, Prime Minister, to carry out your responsibilities and protect our citizens: prices, security of supply, employment. There is a need for a rational approach on the road to these goals. On such an important subject, which is so committed to the future of our country, we do not play! We don't play in the press, we don't play on Twitter, we act!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u24	Thank you for your answers, but I do hear an inconsistency here. I hear people here arguing for affordable energy. However, this government opts for the most expensive solution, which puts hundreds of millions more on the invoice. I hear here arguing for security of supply. However, you do not know today what capacity it will provide, and you do not know when it will be decided. Here are people who argue for clean energy. However, you are all opting for the dirtiest energy in the system today, namely: more emissions, more CO2 in the air. Where is your consequence? The only thing that binds you into this government is that you have agreed to reconsider in three months' time. That's the only decision that's been made. And it's a disgrace to our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u25	Madam Minister, you said we were making jokes here, but it's not a joke at all. This is serious. As I said, the country's energy policy is dominated by ENGIE Electrabel and it is time to take it into public hands. You didn't react to me. Whether it is a plan A or a plan B, Engie Electrabel always wins and taxpayers always pay. It must stop! Moreover, a hundred million public dollars to conduct research on new nuclear reactors! I bet Engie Electrabel will make her butter with that money! As far as nuclear waste is concerned, it is clear that Engie Electrabel must pay for its waste. But you proclaim it as a great victory. Your party beat the polluter pays principle campaign. People's ears are pooled with this all the time. So yes, Engie Electrabel has to pay for her waste, it's obvious! Mr Verduyckt, you are right, all Belgians are awake from their energy bill. The problem is that the government doesn't do much about it. Maybe lower the VAT to 6%, then it's okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u26	Madam President, in all the confusion the government is creating about the dossier, there was an interesting communication, namely that draft laws will be submitted to the Council of State. There are, therefore, documents, and given the importance of the debate, it is of the utmost importance that Members of Parliament can also see them, and immediately. I would just like to refer to the pandemic law, when the government thought it would please us with the texts of the preliminary drafts. That would enliven, broaden and improve the parliamentary debate. This is an issue that is so important that the policy of transparency, to which much lip service is always paid, deserves an extension. We therefore call for the documents to be made available to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u27	An order motion was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover and reads as follows:"During the plenary session of 23 December 2021, the Minister for Energy announced that this government has texts ready to achieve this with regard to the core exit. The Chamber shall ask the Government to forward immediately to the Chamber the texts referred to." A point of order was tabled by Mr. Peter De Roover and reads as follows: "During the plenary session of 23 December 2021, the Minister of Energy announced that the government today has texts on the exit of nuclear power which demonstrate its feasibility. The House requests the Government to transmit the relevant texts immediately to the House." We shall continue with the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u28	Prime Minister, Minister, this is the total incomprehension among our fellow citizens after the decision taken yesterday by the Codeco to close the culture. Anger and disappointment are rumbling among all actors in the cultural sector. Yes, Omicron is highly contagious; uncertainties continue to hover over its dangerousness and the situation remains difficult in hospitals. I have always been extremely cautious about the health situation, but also extremely demanding about the effectiveness of the measures to be deployed. Why close theatres, cinemas and theatres, while people are masked, spaced and in small numbers, equipped with a sanitary pass and the places are ventilated? You claimed that it was the GEMS scientific experts who asked you to do so. That's not the case! So why, Prime Minister? On what scientific basis did Codeco use to decide on this closure? How many at-risk contacts will be avoided daily by the closure of cinemas, theatres and theatres? How will this hinder Omicron's progress? As much as I look for it, I can't find any solid scientific arguments. The only explanation that remains is therefore the arbitrariness and bargaining of the parties that make up the various governments. It's merchandising and vogelpik! These choices were formed not only on the back of culture, but also to the detriment of the well-being of citizens. This morning, Marius Gilbert indicated that the breach of confidence was complete because of arbitrary decisions that mislead the population. This is a strong message, which is also a call for a burst. We ask you, Prime Minister, to review this Codeco decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u29	Prime Minister, Minister, no one denies the need to act against the Omicron variant. To help you in this difficult task, the experts from GEMS had given you a very clear report that relied on step-by-step measures. This report, you threw it into their face by deciding to close the cinemas and the theatres, claiming, at your press conference, that this measure was "based on an opinion of the experts". Prime Minister, at best there are several GEMS, at worst you lied! Because GEMS did not propose this measure, in any case for today, but it proposed it for later, possibly, if the health situation worsens, in combination with other measures. You have thus completely broken the trust with these experts. You have also broken confidence with the entire cultural sector, but also with all the other sectors that have been following strict health protocols for months; you have finally broken the confidence of the population. You have even welcomed us this year for a Christmas that is less worse than the one we had last year. Forgive me, Prime Minister, but it's just indecent. Because this year we had tools like vaccination, ventilation or CST. Tools that you had to mobilize properly. Instead, you punished the right students and sacrificed those areas. You persist, in doing so, in this yo-yo effect which is stigmatizing and, moreover, ineffective. I will therefore make only one request to you today, Prime Minister: review your decision today and immediately reopen the culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u30	Prime Minister, a few weeks ago, I was the first to congratulate you on measures that we considered to be balanced, since no sector was closed. Stricter measures on barrier gestures, wearing masks and vaccination allowed for continued safety while still living. Today, you close the theaters, the theatres, the cinemas. It's an incomprehension for everyone. First for us, while we are here to support you, then for the citizens, who no longer understand anything! How are cinemas, theatres, theatres more dangerous than other sectors? There's the pass, there's the mask, people are sitting! Have you been to the movies in the last few days? They're half empty! The sector is at risk! On the one hand, we fight to offer a status to artists and on the other, we cut off their food! Citizens don't understand anything about it anymore! Prime Minister, when is a decision barometer, based on studies, objective and contamination figures? I know there's a fear of Omicron variant and an outbreak of contamination. Today, the figures are rather reassuring. How can citizens continue to adhere to measures that they no longer understand at all? Why cinemas and theatres, when this was probably not a recommendation of GEMS?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u31	Madam President, Ministers, I thought 28 December was the feast of the silly children, but it seems today. We have already experienced a key step and the jojo policy on corona has apparently also become wet fingering. We are not only closing and strangling the cultural sector, but we are also closing the sporting events. When we are inside, we have to put our heads under the hood to bring in fresh air, and when we go out, we are now also being obstructed in our freedom of movement. There are several studies, including from the University of Canterbury, from the Robert Koch Institute, from the American Association for Aerosol Research, which say that only one to five infections out of a thousand happen in the open air and yet we go back into overdrive. Why are you banning audiences at sports games? Why is there public access to the Christmas markets, where we drink a juniper?I recommend that you go among the people to do so, and what is the difference between a gluwein at a Christmas stand or a cross of field riding? It is full of people, Prime Minister, on Louizalaan, Nieuwstraat, de Meir, with tens of thousands of people, but going on a field trip I speak a bit of my own name at the moment, because it is rather on my stomach where one can ask for the covidpass, where one can wear a mouth mask, where one can demand social distancing and where one can limit the number of spectators. It gets very personal: the Belgian championship for field riding this year is happening on the beach, in the dunes. Three kilometers further there are masses of people walking on the sea dike that is allowed, but one should not come and look at his child or sister who cross (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u32	Prime Minister, glühwein has won it over culture. You were one of the many happy faces at the Vienna Philharmonic concert in Ghent in early September. You yourself felt the need for culture, the desire for creativity among artists and audiences. The new measure to close all cultural houses and cinemas is fusing the creativity of our citizens, our elders, our young people, just this Christmas period. However, we are all trying to understand the decision of the Consultative Committee. That is why I am asking you the question that lies on the lips of hundreds of thousands. The GEMS experts did not ask for the closure of the cultural and event sector at this stage of the pandemic. Why does politics argue with that? You know Ghent very well. Why can we go to the café of the art centre Vooruit with more than 200 more, but can we not go to the theatre and concert hall in the same house? I'm just gonna approach it technically. Why didn't the Consultation Committee choose to activate the CERM, the Covid Event Risk Model? That is what controls the public, the ventilation, the seating, the circulation of the audience and the number of people in a much safer way than those on which you will be partying. All studies confirm that events and cultural performances can be done perfectly safely with the CERM. I also read that our community governments will soon come up with support measures. The cultural sector is grateful to them for that, but if you are no longer allowed to stay on stage the pain and the incomprehension. Did Gluwein really win it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u33	Madam President, Prime Minister, yesterday the Consultative Committee announced new measures with all the governments of our country. It seems a bit strange for many to take new measures just now. The figures are falling, yet a tightening is being announced. Of course, that has everything to do with the new variant, which is coming towards us and whose first signs are not very favourable. Among other things, it was decided to close the cultural sector until the end of January. 2022 announced as a new start after a difficult year and a half for that sector. The first month of 2022 there can be no activity and that makes the sector despondent. I therefore ask you to take away the fear. The uncertainty in that sector can be removed with clear and timely communication. The cultural sector has made enormous efforts to offer culture in a safe way. It doesn't lead to anything playing sectors against each other. Like the catering sector, the cultural sector contributes not only to our economy, but also to well-being, because culture offers relaxation in these difficult times. I am therefore pleased that the Communities have already announced that they will give the necessary compensation to the cultural sector. Prime Minister, can you explain why it was decided to close the cultural sector? I think it is important to explain clearly why a particular decision is being taken. In what way will the Consultative Committee try to remove uncertainty in the sector? On what parameters will sectors be able to re-open?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u34	Prime Minister, what happened during this last Codeco? Why are these closures? Why prevent families, friends from finding themselves in safe and essential spaces, creators of the social bond? Why stop them from meeting at the cinema, at the theatre, at a concert? The protocols are working, it has been proven and demonstrated. Why risk further weakening a whole part of the cultural sector when you know how much it is already paying for this crisis? Why this unsatisfactory response to the distress cry of the health care sector? These closures, as we know, will not solve their problems. Why risk a breach of trust with experts and, as a result, citizens? Scientists denounce arbitrary decisions and bargaining. This is extremely dangerous, Prime Minister. What is the use of having a group of experts to analyze and decrypt the pandemic to provide health responses but not to listen to? The responsibility is to take decisions accordingly, decisions necessary but with proportionality and consistency. It must be noted that today, obviously, this is not the case. Therefore, Prime Minister, we must bounce back. The courage to deal with this crisis is indispensable and you have it. Courage is also sometimes recognition that we have not made the right choices. There's still time to react. That is what my political group is asking you here and now. Obviously, we're not the only ones. Prime Minister, review this closure decision! Are you going to review your closing decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u35	Prime Minister, you know that my group has always supported and supported measures to combat the pandemic, even when they were difficult. With the emergence of the Omicron variant and all the uncertainties it brings again, we support you when you defend the precautionary principle. Further action was needed. We must not doubt it, but today, let me tell you my concerns! Like everyone else, I wonder a lot. In earlier Codeco, the cultural sector had already been imposed additional measures in terms of gauge. Yesterday, three weeks later, on the eve of the end-of-year celebrations, we close. They say stop at a whole area. No more concerts, no more plays, no more movies at the cinema. But what has changed in three weeks? Yes, I must tell you that many citizens do not understand and ask themselves questions, while strict protocols have been put in place there and there is no evidence that these are places where the Omicron virus in particular circulates more than anywhere else. Prime Minister, you will tell me that the Codeco must speak with one voice, but at this point citizens are questioning. How did you get to that decision? Precautionary principle? Theatres, cinemas, concert halls, shows, all have made efforts for ventilation, gauges, distancing, organization of travel in the rooms. I don't want to oppose one sector to another. I don't want to divide the Belgians. I want to understand. Why stop the cultural sector when it has put everything in place to ensure the safety of the citizens, when the scientific experts do not themselves plead in this direction? Besides, they didn't hide their dismay, you read them and heard them like I did. Yeah, I really wish you could explain that choice to me again. Above all, I would like you to tell me in concrete terms how you will support the whole sector affected by these new measures. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u36	Prime Minister, Mr Vice Prime Minister, it is a very special Question Time. You decided a few months ago that a pandemic law as a government would allow you to decide everything without Parliament. And now that you are making decisions as a government, I hear the Members of almost all your coalition partners asking for explanations. Where were your vice prime ministers? Were they all together for the last time in football? You just replied, Prime Minister, that you are listening to the experts on nuclear energy. Which experts did you consult? We all read the same report, but apparently we interpreted it differently. It is important in that report, ladies and gentlemen, and none of the majority has yet spoken about it, that it also calls for a medium-term vision, a vision for what is to come. In other words, how will we provide the necessary resilience? I have a number of specific questions about this, which I have asked before. Will you ensure that our healthcare professionals, our nurses, where and when and as long as they have to be assisted by care buddies? Will you provide routes, so that an internship is possible in a hospital and is also paid, as the Flemish government has done? It is also very important in that report, which is given to you both, but also to all the vice-premiers of the other parties, in preparation for the Consultative Committee, the chapter on testing policy. It clearly states that this test policy is unlikely to be met in January. What steps have you taken to achieve this? Will you spread the workload on the care and ensure that more PCR tests can be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u37	Ministers of Vivaldi, you have decided to kill the culture! By killing her, you're going to kill hope! Culture is not just about money, but about the emancipation of peoples, the critical spirit, the fun, the humor and everything that brings us together. You've decided to kill the culture! Ecolo, PS, MR! How could you decide to sacrifice culture again? CD&V, N-VA, Open Vld, Green and Forward, how did you decide to hit the cultural sector again? How can you make such a decision? Because they have done everything possible to respect the protocols: masks in the rooms, ventilation... to the point that the experts do not ask for the closure of the area! What is your motivation to hit this sector again? Because he doesn't bring back money and money and money! That's what's wrong! I heard a lot today, a lot of hypocrisy! That's amazing! We make decisions at Codeco and then we come here to say, "Yes, but no, that's not really what we wanted!" What hypocrisy! Do you think people are stupid? Do you think people don't see you? The actors of the cultural world and its workers see your hypocrisy. Let's take your hypocrisy seriously. Everyone will have noticed here that there is no majority today for this decision. We will therefore lift the veil of hypocrisy and ask the Prime Minister the question. Prime Minister, you have heard them! There is only one thing left for you to do: decide to return to the closure of the cultural sector. The answer is in two seconds, hypocrisy or not, answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it will not surprise you, but I will start in the same way as I did in my reply to the previous question. I'm someone who listens to experts, someone who looks at facts. The GEMS report talks about indoor gatherings for everything that happens inside, including cultural activities. The opinion reads as follows: "right now up to 200. When the cases increase, cancel everything." Well, I put that next to another element of our experts, especially the prediction of the National Reference Laboratory. That looks at what the variants are that circulate and what their impact would be on the infections. The National Reference Laboratory is expected to increase the number of infections from Christmas onwards. Our measures begin on Christmas Day. The decision taken in the Consultation Committee is therefore 100% based on scientific advice. It is based on the fact that it is already known that the number of infections will unfortunately increase. I hear some of you say that we had waited better and we should have made a decision in several times, such as the decision we made during the months of October and November, when we made a Consultation Committee three weeks in a row and we had to intertwine three weeks in a row. This method has been strongly criticized. And, honestly, if I look back, I think it wasn't the right method. In a difficult time, changing the measures we are facing three times in a row was not the right method, The Consultative Committee, in which almost all the parties are represented here through the government, has therefore had to take a decision. Apart from PVDA/PTB, Flemish Interest and cdH, everyone is represented on that Consultation Committee. That is not an easy decision, no one is sitting there with the intention of seeing which sector we can hurt. Everyone is well aware that they are extremely difficult decisions, which have an impact on people's lives. They have an impact on the mental well-being of all of us. We are all aware that the impact is very high when dealing with indoor activities such as cultural events. However, there are two reports and one of them says that the number of infections will increase. We have also seen this in other countries. In countries such as Denmark, where the omicron variant is already further advanced, we can see that the number of infections has increased. If the national reference centre says it will rise, if the GEMS report states what measures should be taken if the figures increase and if we close our eyes and ears and say that we will see where we come from, is that good policy? No, I don't think so. The same question arises in relation to sport, Mr Dedecker. I also like to watch the cyclocross. I'm sure it could be organized safely in some places. Again, however, I look at what the GEMS says. The GEMS report says that the football competition must be organized immediately without the public. So what are we gonna do? Are we, as policy makers, going to say that football matches should continue without an audience, but that the cyclocross may receive audiences? One sport can go with an audience, the other has to go without. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but that is not a policy either. If policy is to be pursued, a certain uniformity must be ensured. I am absolutely aware that these are difficult decisions. If we've made data-based decisions, if we've worked with other governments, if we've looked into each other's eyes and thought that's what we're going to do, it's because we're fact-based. And the facts have not changed! Therefore, when making a decision, even if it is a difficult decision, it must be maintained. The Minister of Health will go into more detail on how we will interact with the world of culture, because we have heard their cry of despair, their cry of disappointment. Please, if you decide in all conscience on the basis of figures and do not want to make the same mistake as in the past, then I hope that everyone has the coolness to defend that decision after that, no matter how difficult it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u39	Madam President, I fully endorse what the Prime Minister said. We face a danger that is largely unknown. If we were using a barometer, we should say there's some kind of thunderstorm coming, which we don't know much about. It couldn't be too bad. I hope so. It could also be very disappointing, in a country where the hospitals are already full, where the care staff moans. It's moaning. You'll have to be sure. That's not easy. Sometimes we have to have the courage to admit we're insecure. In uncertainty there is nothing but solidarity. We have indeed discussed the GEMS opinion. According to this advice, we had to take some small actions in the very short term, but were allowed to stay open and 200 spectators in cultural rooms under a number of strict conditions. According to that opinion, a number of cases had to be closed outside. Still according to the advice it was, if the situation got worse and the infections increased, total lockdown and had to close everything, from culture to sports and catering, everything completely closed. That opinion was signed by the experts, including those who took the floor. At the same time, it is said that there is a great deal of chance that contamination will increase and that the situation will become serious. Then what are people doing right before Christmas? Then there will be a discussion about this and a political balance will be found. We are not entering into a lockdown in the hospitality industry just before Christmas, but we are taking a number of other very difficult measures, indeed with regret in the heart for the supporters of cyclocross and football and for the people in the cultural sector, who are making incredibly great efforts. If I may be a little personal, it hurts me in my heart; it really hurts me in my heart. I've been lucky enough to attend one small concert over the past few weeks, because I was able to get away just in time. One can be hungry for that and the artists even more. We know that. So I have sent an invitation to a meeting with the cultural sector. I often speak with those people - next Tuesday at 10 a.m. That will be a frank and difficult meeting, as always. We'll discuss it. If the situation allows, we can switch to a more nuanced regime based on CIRM at the beginning of January. This means that there are no 200 spectators in small rooms and that there must be sufficient ventilation, among other things; in large halls perhaps more. In small rooms that is very strict, even though some things are more nuanced and one can do things. If the figures evolve favourably, we can decide that at the beginning of January after evaluation in the Consultation Committee. Then maybe we can look at other things, too. I will speak openly to the people next Tuesday and look them in the white, as I always do. But, ladies and gentlemen, if the figures get worse, hopefully you will agree with the experts' advice and more will be closed. It's a terrible thing to say. After all, the only weapon against the virus is boosters, boosters, boosters and meanwhile keeping away, mouth masks on, watch out and be careful. That's the only weapon and we're gonna have to do it together. If things are difficult, we should tell people the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u40	Prime Minister, yes, the health situation is fragile. I don't blame you for taking action. However, one of your decisions taken yesterday is not scientifically sound. I have read every word of the 31 pages of the report submitted by GEMS. No, it is not written that the cultural sector must be closed today. Moreover, the experts have said it loud and clear this morning and repeat it again: closing the culture is a health nonsense. I heard yesterday from ministers who had just validated the Codeco's decisions saying, "No, no, no, it's not me, it's the other." What cowardice! Here I hear parties from all governments saying that they do not agree and that we are right. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'll take you to the word. Let's fight this health nonsense together, review this Codeco decision! I therefore move a motion. I invite you to move from word to action. Vote on this motion to review this Codeco decision!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u41	Prime Minister, Minister, I finally hear your willingness to anticipate the events. However, in this case, you type completely next door. How do you want health measures to be effective if they are neither grounded nor proportionate, if they are ultimately based on a popularity contest or the influence of lobbies rather than on safety and science. For months, both experts and sectors have been asking for a barometer, a "covid safe" label or a ventilation plan. Where are they? Instead, you go up against each other. Prime Minister, in order to have a team of eleven million people, it is not enough to say so; we must act with vision and coherence. I therefore take note of your refusal to reopen the culture. I therefore hope that Mrs Fonck's motion will change something. In any case, I would like to make a wish at the end of the year, hoping that these arbitrations will be terminated or, at least, that they will not happen any more (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u42	Ministers, I take note of your answers. I hear your fears and I understand them. But do you really think that allowing citizens to meet at home without masks, without sanitary passes and without any protective measures is less dangerous than allowing them to meet in rooms where extremely strict protocols are respected, with all the measures and actions that this implies? I wonder. Today, I have two requests to make. First of all, it is time for us to have this barometer already promised in the summer of 2020. It's time we read it and people understand it. Secondly, I ask for measures to support the sector. I heard you, Mr Vandenbroucke, and I really hope you will respect your word. It is about the psychological and mental health of all our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u43	Prime Minister, I hear you saying here that cyclists and all athletes must pay because the hooligans of the football world don't like their manners. So you think that if a child in the classroom is naughty, the whole class should be punished. Mr Vandenbroucke, I am also listening to experts who say that there is no danger outside, that there is one to five opportunities out of a thousand to be infected outside. Why do you have to throw away the baby with the bathwater? I asked why tens of thousands of people can walk around the Meir, the Nieuwstraat or the Kapellestraat in Ostend or on the sea dike, but not at a sports competition, in the open air, on the beach, in the dunes. What is your explanation for that? You didn't say anything about that. Mr Vandenbroucke, what is the way to freedom? Today 85.5 % of all +65 year olds and 41% of the entire population have already been boosted. I think you still want to lock everyone up. That's your problem. I have nothing else to do with your heartache, because I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u44	Prime Minister, Minister, the cultural sector wants to help and assist you. They've been doing that for two years. They are there to give the people hope, to help our women, men and children through this terrible period. They like to do that. Accept their support, so don't lock them up. A deal is a deal I hear you say, Prime Minister. Minister, I hear you're already sitting with the sector on Tuesday. If the agreement is that the OCC also dares to make new decisions quickly, then that is a good deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u45	Prime Minister, Minister, I was here at the last plenary session of 2020. I was talking to you about the vaccination campaign that would start shortly after. That gave people hope, everyone had hope, but it turned out differently. At the moment we are boostering, which gives hope again, but many people are also losing heart. Many sectors are losing heart. That is why steadfastness is important, but also perspective. If we've learned one thing from this crisis, then the virus doesn't do what we want it to do. The virus doesn't do what politics wants it to do. In any case, I hope that I will not have to stand here again with questions about corona at the last meeting of 2022. I wish all colleagues a Merry Christmas and a Merry 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u46	Prime Minister, Minister, let us be clear: we are aware of the risks associated with the pandemic. We take this very seriously. But what is a problem here is a choice that was clearly not the right one. There is no question here of hypocrisy, but of whether this choice was ultimately the right one. Was the one that was operated yesterday the right one? If I understand your explanation correctly, this is an excess of foresight. I am not going to condemn you, as Prime Minister, for being overly prepared to manage this state. I understand that. But I must admit that if this is done at the expense of social ties, contact, culture, I think we should try to find other solutions. Experts and scientists have said so. Codeco and this government were invited to prepare. Let's get ready. But in the meantime, suspend these measures and be ready in case...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u47	Prime Minister, for me culture is escape, freedom, emancipation, emotion, but it is also an economic sector that must be seen, heard and helped like all other sectors. This sector of culture, I am very close to it since I am myself an artist. Since yesterday, my Facebook profile is only desolation. No culture, no future! I am thinking not only of the artists but also of the citizens for whom a play or concert was likely to be a breath of oxygen at the end of the year, to the children who were happy to go to the cinema. Because without hundreds of kilometres, culture allows us to escape for a moment. Culture does us good morale, let us not forget it. Today, therefore, we must hear this incomprehension that we feel growing. We repeat: we need a clear barometer that explains to us when, from what numbers we need to act on, and in what direction. Cohesion and solidarity remain essential. Let's do everything we can to preserve them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u48	Minister Vandenbroucke, my ears have just really been buzzing. You say, boosters, boosters. Too bad you didn't say that in September or October. At that time, when the N-VA Group asked for it, when the Flemish Government asked for it, you simply did not accept it. That's a shame, isn't it? I'm glad you came to your senses. I will quote you and the Prime Minister: "If you close your eyes, and say: we will see, is that good policy?" No, of course not. You, Minister Vandenbroucke, say to be sure. Agreed. How come you have not followed the advice of the National Retention Laboratory, such as strengthening first-line care, strengthening hospitals, and a more comprehensive testing policy? That's not in the agreements. However, the Flemish government has paved the way by adopting a decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u49	Minister, it is clear that you are continuing. But you still haven't answered the question as to why the cultural sector is being hit again? Why? That's where the problem lies. After all, culture is so important to the community. Why the culture sector again? I'll tell you why. You reason in numbers and business. Culture is more than that: culture is emancipation, culture is hope, culture is solidarity and a critical mind. You make this decision because you only pick out the lockdown stuff from the experts' reports. Where's the prevention? The experts are in favour of free self-tests, an idea that the PVDA has put forward.. That wasn't taken over by the government. The generalisation of saliva testing in schools has not been taken over either. 100 % unemployment benefit for people in quarantine is not taken over either. Those were all PVDA ideas. Mr. Secretary, what did you do with it? You wiped them all off the table. You didn't take any of that. Just a lockdown! (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u50	Madam Chair, as announced, I have tabled a point of order on the basis of rule 54 of the House's Rules of Procedure to review CODECO's decision to close the cultural sector. I dropped it off for you, Madam President. In order for it to be properly taken into account, it seems essential to reiterate it, in the clear hope that the members of the House who voted orally in favour of the reopening of the cultural sector demonstrate this through their vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Fonck. We have received your point of order, whose admissibility we are considering.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u52	Madam Minister, I am concerned, and I am very concerned about the tensions and the risk of war that exist today in Eastern Europe and the confrontations between Russia and NATO. I would just like to point out that these tensions do not date from today, do not date from a few months ago. They date back about 30 years, when some NATO member countries committed themselves to Russia not to extend NATO's sphere of influence to Eastern Europe. And this commitment has been broken! In fact, I recall that in 1990, US Secretary of State James Baker said: "NATO's current military jurisdiction will not extend one inch east." NATO not only extended to most of the countries of Eastern Europe, the Warsaw Pact countries, but also to the Baltic countries that are at the door of Russia. These new Alliance territories are also strongholds of NATO. As I recall, Poland and Romania now have anti-missile systems installed by NATO in their country. Since February 2014, the United States has provided up to $2.5 billion in weapons to Ukraine. In June 2021, military exercises took place in the Black Sea with some 30 countries, including NATO countries and allies of the United States, such as North Korea or the United Arab Emirates. These tensions do not simply mean war risks. They also have a real impact on the European population, notably by increasing gas prices, as Russia exports 40% of European gas and these tensions have an impact on this. Minister, will you call for de-escalation? Will you work to enforce the Minsk agreements? [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u53	Mr President, thank you for your question. The military strengthening of Russia and its aggressive rhetoric towards Ukraine are unacceptable and Belgium reaffirms its full support for the sovereignty and integrity of Ukraine's territory. In the face of Russia, dialogue, transparency and de-escalation are indeed called for. With regard to its ambition to join NATO, Ukraine does not hide its ambition to join NATO and the European Union. It is clear that, for President Putin, Ukraine's accession to NATO is a strong red line. We need to know that NATO is pursuing an open door policy on the accession of the Allies and is respecting the decision taken at the Bucharest Summit in 2008 that recognizes Ukraine's desire to join NATO, while stressing the reforms still needed before this can be the case. The decision to invite a country to join the Alliance is a political decision taken by the North Atlantic Council on the basis of a consensus between all the Allies and no one else. Having said that, I would remind you that NATO is a defensive Alliance that does not pose a threat to Russia if it does not commit any aggression. NATO remains open to dialogue with Russia, as was publicly reaffirmed in an Alliance statement on 16 December. Moreover, if Western countries call for de-escalation, transparency and dialogue, we must also make clear the price Moscow would pay in the event of an attack and prepare for all the scripts. It is in this sense that the European Union decided, at the European Council of 16 and 17 December, to prepare a deterrent package of sanctions. Dialogue, I said. We hope that the NATO-Russia Council will be able to meet as soon as possible in early January. Just like the United States and Russia, which were to meet bilaterally at the beginning of 2022. As I said, in order to allow for de-escalation, I will continue to remain vigilant, as will NATO and the European Union, in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u54	Minister Robert Gates, former Deputy Director of the CIA, said: "At a time of great humiliation and difficulties for Russia, continuing the expansion towards the east of NATO while Gorbachev and others were led to believe that this would not happen, in any case in the short term, probably aggravated the relationship between the United States and Russia and made it very difficult to do business constructively." Minister, I am surprised by your answer. The Americans themselves recognize their responsibility in the current tensions and you refuse to see them. You tell us that NATO is for defensive reasons. Let's stop! Afghanistan, Libya, is that defensive? Is going to destroy countries defensive? Let's stop! Today, NATO is the greatest threat to peace in the world. The Americans, with their imperialist policies, represent the greatest threat. We must dissociate ourselves from (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u55	Mr Minister, energy prices are booming. Energy becomes priceless. In one year they pay 1,321 euros for electricity and 2,800 euros for gas, 2,000 euros more than the year before. I'm getting so many stories. A woman tells me her kids are with her one week to two and she doesn't heat her house the week the kids aren't around. Other people put their heating at 16 or 17 degrees. That happens in our country, and yet the government does almost nothing. A full tank of petrol already costs 20 to 30 euros more. It can't go on like this. I asked you on 28 October what you would do about it and you replied to me that you would introduce a reverse cliquet system. You didn't do that. You lied. You didn't make a decision. You have given a Member an answer that you are not following. The reverse cliquet system is still not in place. You were interviewed in the newspapers and your spokesman said that the reverse cliquet system would only be applied when, and only when, the price would be more than EUR 1.7. In November, after my question, the price was EUR 1.8. What's the highest, 1.7 or 1.8? Indeed, 1.8 is higher. Why has the government still not decided to reduce excise duties on diesel and petrol and to bring VAT from 21% to 6%?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u56	Mr Hedebouw, the rising energy prices in our country are a concern for our citizens, for our entrepreneurs and also for the government. Of course, I understand very much the uncertainty caused by the price increases in families. The various governments in our country are making efforts in this respect, including the federal government. Among other things, we have extended the social tariff, which ensures that there is a reduction in the invoice of 650 euros for 20% of families. That is the group of people who are socially in the weakest position and who deserve full support today. Moreover, we have also ensured that the federal share of the electricity bill will not increase further. For 2022, this means a 30 euro discount for each family. Is that enough? Is that enough to take away the uncertainty from the families? I fully support the measures we have already taken, but I am also, of course, realistic. We must continue to look at the possibility of additional measures. I just heard one of your colleagues talk about a VAT reduction on electricity. You are well aware that in our country wages follow the evolution of prices through the index mechanism. In the past, it has already been shown that a VAT reduction for an average family is less than a wage indexing without a VAT reduction. That cannot, of course, be the intention. If we are to take fiscal action, this procedure must be targeted. Therefore, in my capacity as Minister of Finance, I will closely monitor the impact of volatile energy prices and pump prices on tax revenues. If it turns out that we can do more, we will do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u57	Do you really think, Minister, that no one noticed that you did not answer the question about the reverse cliquet system? Everyone in the Chamber and at home has understood that you have followed for two minutes, but have not answered one question. On 28 October 2021, you stated that you would enter a reverse cliquet system. It was only one euro for our tank of gasoline. However, you are not saying anything about this today. Did you lie? No? Then why isn't there anything on the table before that? The PVDA demands a large reduction in all excise duties. This reduction in excise duty must be a priority. You just lied on October 28, 2021. The worst thing is that you tried to think that you would apply that system if a price of EUR 1.70 had been exceeded. However, the price has now risen to 1.80 euros. You're just not saying today, that's the answer. For the whole month people have been paying 1.80 euros. You're lying because we're no longer under 1.70 euros. Minister, that is not how it will work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u58	Minister, in order to be entitled to unemployment benefit in this country one must have worked for one year. Non-Belgian EU citizens can already get them after only 3 months of work in Belgium; the other 9 months may have worked in another European country. Except the check on the other nine months remains dead letter. This means, in fact, that Belgians in this country have to work four times longer than non-Belgen in order to be able to receive unemployment benefits. As if that weren't bad enough, several European countries that want to reduce three months to one month would want to do so. So that is a further relaxation. That relaxation was on the table again yesterday. Belgium has consistently resisted such relaxation in recent years. But yesterday Belgium did not vote against. With unemployment benefits that are unlimited in time in this country, with a social security whose affordability is becoming increasingly uncertain, such relaxation is completely irresponsible. In our view, the rule should be the same for everyone, for Belgians and non-Belgen: 12 months, and not a day less, working in this country, contributing to our social security, being available to our labour market, if not unemployment benefit. The existing rules therefore need to be tightened up. What are you doing? You're not even opposed to relaxing it. Do you think it is fair that Belgians should work four times longer in their own country than other EU citizens before they can receive unemployment benefits? Why is Belgium plodding? Why have you suddenly abandoned your opposition to a new relaxation of the rules that are already far too flexible in order to strengthen social security tourism to our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u59	Mr Anseuw, first of all we must avoid a misunderstanding. It is not the case that foreigners are easier to obtain Belgian unemployment benefits than Belgians, but the European agreement for many years has meant that people also look at what foreigners have done abroad. If they have worked as Belgians have worked, it will be taken into account. So it is not the case that people who come here after a certain period of time are entitled to unemployment benefits do not have to prove that they have worked before, as the Belgians should. It's about recognizing achievements abroad. That's what the discussion is about. Of course they don't get priority. That would be very strange. The problem with such agreements is that it can be properly monitored and that there is no abuse due to a lack of control. We are well aware of that. A compromise has been reached on the regime of permanent adjustment and updating of the unemployment allowance for people crossing the border between the European Commission and the European Parliament. There are a number of good things in that compromise, for example a better framework for posting with a mandatory prior notification................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, as is often the case with an agreement between 27 Member States, there are also areas of work. We are not entirely satisfied with it. That is why our country has abstained. We must continue to work on this. We are also making efforts in our own country to combat fraud, but that is why we abstained.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u60	You yourself, Minister, say that the control of the existing rule is inadequate. This means, contrary to what is written on paper, that it is indeed easier for foreigners to receive unemployment benefits here than for compatriots. The only reason why Belgium has abstained is the continuing resistance of the Flemish government, the only government in this country. The majority of Belgians do not want your relaxation, they do not want social security tourism. Once again, the De Croo government is showing itself to be an anti-Flemish government. This left-wing government is once again taking the side of a left-wing, French-speaking minority in this country. If today we do not have the fried pears, it is only thanks to the Flemish Government. You shouldn't count on the Fleming. I repeat, the rule must be the same for everyone: 12 months of work, not a day less. Everything else is fundamentally unjust.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u61	Madam President, Minister, one fire has not yet been put out, by which I mean the sectoral negotiations with the police unions, or there is already a new fire that you need to get under control, this time about the malaise within the federal judicial police. Within the framework of security policy, the FGP is investigating important forms of organised crime, such as terrorism, trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking, cybercrime and financial fraud, making the FGP a very important pillar of the police structure. This pillar deserves our attention, especially if there are signals from the FGP itself, but also from the College of Attorneys General. In a letter, the College complains that in the new security plan, I quote: 'no formal commitment is to be found on the budgets and the means necessary to deal with all the identified priorities'. There is also no separate budget for the federal judicial police, although this is provided for by the police law. FGP observers themselves confirm that a high-quality priority policy has long gone out of the question. There is a lack of investigators and a lack of supporting material. Files leading to countries such as Albania, with which our country does not have good partnerships, often end up at the bottom of the pile and complaints of bourgeois parties are no longer being investigated. Spies don't even have time to fill out the police database anymore. In short, the list is long and does not look beautiful. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to ask you two pertinent questions to which a clear answer can be given. Will you modify the National Security Plan? Will you provide additional separate resources and budget for the FGP and (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u62	Madam President, Mr Depoostere, you started your speech by referring to a fire. I myself would try to rectify a situation of 20 years of stagnation in wage negotiations over the past few months, not just compare it to a fire. But I'll leave that to you, of course. It is clear that, from the first day of my arrival, the challenges for the police have proved to be very great, so there is absolutely no need to doubt my commitment. I do it for the police but also for the police, because every day I meet policemen who are incredibly driven and dynamic to ensure our safety. It's my belief that I want to leave this department better than I found it. That is why we invest in safety and invest in additional resources. As chairman of the Committee on the Interior, you are well aware that this legislative period is being spent more than EUR 310 million extra on the police and that special projects such as digitisation are being rolled out, including EUR 20 million additional to the FGP from the European Relance Plan. And indeed, as you know, the National Security Plan is not the plan in which the budgets are distributed, this happens in the budget. We are in consultation with the police summit, with all the Directors-General, including the FGP, to discuss the budgets for 2022 and also to allocate the additional budgets to the FGP, because they find in me an ally for their so-called plan 3.0 to strengthen the FGP with more cars, people and resources. We have also made more than 400 additional police officers available to the FGP over the past year, reducing the deficit by 3%. Clearly, ladies and gentlemen, Rome is not built in one day, but I do my best every day to improve the FGP. After all, the FGP does a fantastic job, if there are a number of people who will be working on 9 March this year (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u63	Madam Secretary, you're actually doing two cases. You're chasing the facts and you're desperately trying to save the furniture. I'm following Professor Janssens' analysis, which you may have read as well. Let me quote him: "What we are seeing today is the result of years of disinvestment with the federal police. No Minister of the Interior, regardless of the political colour, has done anything to fundamentally reverse the tide. In that is no other than its predecessors. That's what makes you see poverty all over the security chain. Investing in the police doesn't get a quick win in politics." I can't put it any better. I would add that guaranteeing the safety of our society should be priority number one. It's not that now. Madam Minister, this is also a failing government in this area. Don't come back later and say the Flemish interest didn't warn you. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, during the last few nights, asylum seekers had to spend the night at the Klein Kastiltskin and at freezing temperatures. They could not count on shelter or bed, bath, bread, to which they are entitled. With Vooruit, we have been asking for immediate emergency care for asylum seekers for a long time. Mr Secretary of State, a week ago, you tweeted that everyone at the Klein Kastiltje was registered and caught that day, that no one had to sleep on the street either, and that there was a happy light at the end of the tunnel. However, over the last few days, about 60 people remained at the gate of the Klein Kastiltje. I questioned you on this matter last Tuesday in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and you replied that you would be able, hopefully, to deal with all the people later this week, and that there was even a prospect of a structural solution. But even today 30 asylum seekers remained literally in the cold. Mr Secretary of State, over the past few weeks hundreds of additional places have been created and your services are really doing everything they can to open new places in the next few weeks, so that the crisis in reception finally comes to an end. But I cannot settle for that now, because we now need emergency solutions for the people who are sleeping on the streets without taboos. If, for example, army barracks can be used, they must now be put into service. If there is winter shelter in any form, then that is good, but it is right now. What other options are there? Do you think that in the case of the Defense Department, all the possibilities are really exhausted? How will you ensure that no one will really stand in the cold tomorrow at the Little Castle? Before when is there that light at the end of the tunnel?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u65	Madam President, I will continue to do everything in my power to create additional places. Unfortunately, we sometimes encounter resistance. Yesterday, the mayor of Spa decided to demand a penalty payment of 330,000 euros. On the eve of Christmas, she demanded that I remove 200 people from the shelter where some 400 people are currently staying. There are 550 beds in Spa today, which are only partially used. By the way, Fedasil met the mayor's concerns. Our outstretched hand was unfortunately rejected. The mayor is demanding 10,000 euros a day because we're taking people in, and that's on the eve of Christmas. Honestly, I don't understand. In Boom, where the Red Cross wants to use a shelter for some 160 residents, the local government apparently has 4 million euros to buy the building and thus thwart the reception centre. Luckily, there's another way. Over the past few months, I've contacted several mayors. All of them had concerns. That's perfectly legitimate. Fortunately, there are also mayors who, despite their concerns, take a constructive attitude. For example, the mayors of Ypres and Ixelles, with whom I contacted today to announce that in a few days' time we will also temporarily open a shelter in their municipality. These are examples of municipalities that are placed unsolicited for a responsibility and decide to take them. In recent weeks, municipalities such as Waregem, Houyet and Plombières have also taken responsibility for opening additional LOI sites on their own initiative. I would like to thank them very much. As for the shelter in the next few days and tomorrow, I'd much rather pay periodic penalty payments to catch people than pay them to let people sleep on the street.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your commitment, despite the opposition, as you have just outlined. There are always a thousand-and-one reasons not to do anything, but at the moment there is only one reason to do something and to take action: people sleep on the streets at freezing temperatures. Only that can influence your decision, but also that of mayors today. As difficult as it may be, however difficult the conditions are, we must never accept that people sleep on the streets at freezing temperatures. Therefore, please also demand all available capacity and make sure that no one has to spend the Christmas period on the street. I am also counting on you, for example, if tomorrow, like today, again 30 people do not seem to be able to be registered at first, you will do everything in your power to find at least an emergency solution for them. I wish you every success in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u67	This concludes our oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u68	Two motions were tabled. A motion tabled by the N-VA, Mr. De Roover, and a motion tabled by the CDH, Ms. Fonck and Mr. Dallemagne. The motion tabled by Mr. De Roover is admissible. It concerns the proceedings of the Chamber and speaks of discussions by the Chamber of texts, the content of which it requests to be communicated to it. Mrs. Fonck's motion is inadmissible. It does not concern the proceedings of the Chamber. Other provisions of the Regulations are made available to members in terms of means to invite the government to make, not to make or review a decision. These are the motions for resolutions, the motions tabled at the conclusion of a possible inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u69	Madam President, I must confess that, having heard the various parties, of course the majority, speak earlier, I had some doubt that you would, as a matter of chance, find this motion inadmissible. It's obviously a little simple. Indeed, we have debated the subject here and we have heard the majority parties say that this is a matter of great concern to them – so we are here in the Chamber – with a mobilization of Members of Parliament, for some of the majority, who are calling for a review of the Codeco's decision. However, when it comes to deciding on this fundamental issue, the motion is declared inadmissible. I therefore absolutely do not agree with you on this crucial issue for the cultural sector. I insist that this is a health nonsense. There is no scientific argument on the road. This is an area in which extremely important and strict protocols have been put in place and thus make it possible to minimise the risks in terms of the transmission of covid-19. For the health of citizens, it is much better for them to be allowed to go to the cinema rather than to let them pile up in their homes in front of televisions. This issue is fundamental to mental health and well-being. We know how important this is in this crisis. But it is also, in the light of the Prime Minister's remarks, a real question of restoring the confidence of citizens not only in political decisions but also between politicians and experts. This decision to close cinemas, theatres and theatres has in no way been requested by GEMS scientific experts. I invite you to read their report. Madam Chair, the arguments you are quoting do not convince me. I hope that the words of the various parties that have here, with their mouths in mind, defended the cultural sector and called to change the decision will assume their posture, their tweets and their statements, otherwise it would be a little too simple and easy. If, in spite of the arguments I have just put forward, Madam President, you continue to say that you are refusing the admissibility of this motion, as Rule 54 allows, I ask for an individual vote on the admissibility of this motion, knowing, ladies and gentlemen, that your vote will have to be analysed politically on the content of the Codeco's decision with regard to the cultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u70	Mrs Fonck, you have to talk about the substance of the case. My role is to enforce the form and our Rules of Procedure. I quote the first paragraph of rule 54, which you refer to in your motion: "Any member of the House may, in the course of a debate, request the floor in connection with the proceedings of the House". It is a matter of settling the proceedings of the Chamber and not the work of the Codeco. Your motion must relate to our business. Your motion asks Codeco to reconsider a decision. I can't go any further in thinking. It seems to me that we are working here in Parliament on our own agendas and our own decisions and not on the decisions of others. We can accept a motion if it concerns our order of business. That is not the case in your motion. In addition, during the debate on the point of order, the author may intervene. If the President's decision on admissibility is unsatisfactory and the member insists, the Speaker shall consult the House, which shall rule by sitting and lifted. However, you refer to the Rules of Procedure to ask the meeting to decide individually. This escapes two somewhat free interpretations of Rule 54 of our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u71	Madam President, I note with interest how much you are trying to do as best and as far as possible to reject any vote on this matter. I understand that's what you're talking about. As I understand it! I understand very well. So everything is allowed when it comes to saving the government. But what you are doing, ladies and gentlemen, is supporting the closure of the cultural sector even more. That is what you are doing, very clearly! Madam President, yesterday, when we were talking about these medical students who are now at the front to fight against covid-19 and who you want to sanction by not assigning them an INAMI number once they have graduated, you demanded a nominative vote for referral to the Council of State. In this case, we are told that a nominative vote cannot be taken. Madam President, I repeat my request for an individual vote on this matter, now or possibly in five minutes, if you wish, but in any case still this day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u72	I can only repeat to you, Mrs Fonck, what the Rules of Procedure say. The Rules clearly state that "the Speaker shall consult the House by sitting and rising. You keep calling for a nominative vote that I can't even grant you. I cannot allow you a nominative vote. It's in our rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u73	Madam President, as the third paragraph of Rule 54 allows, I very clearly ask for a vote. I do not have all the rules before me to check, but I think that an individual vote, if I am not mistaken, can be requested. Do you confirm that an individual vote can be requested?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u74	So this is the third time I've explained it to you. It is clear that this is a vote by sitting and lifted. If you want to go check in your Rules of Procedure, you take Rule 58 in paragraph 5: "In other cases, the vote shall be taken by sitting and lifted". 'Except in cases where these Rules explicitly require a vote by sitting and lifted'. "However, a nominative vote shall be taken, when the request is made by one member and supported by at least eight members", "except where the Rules explicitly require a vote by sitting and lifted". So you go back to Rule 54, which states: "The President consults by sitting and rising".
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u75	OK, well, let's take a stand vote that will engage every party and every member of these political parties! And if I understand you correctly, Madam Chair, and if you persist in inadmissibility, then I still have the opportunity to table a motion in relation to an urgent inquiry. Therefore, I will, of course, first wait and hope on the part of the political parties, who tried to make believe that they wanted to change and change the codeco's decision to close the cultural sector, then hope for support from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u76	I am surprised by the spectacle because for no less than an hour, half of the assembly has protested against the measures decided by the Codeco based precisely on the Pandemic Act in this case. Because to close a sector, we rely on that law. When a request is made to attach the act to the floor, an attempt is made to make the request inadmissible and an attempt is made to avoid voting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u77	Mrs Merckx, the request is inadmissible because it does not concern the work of the Chamber, but the work of the Codeco. We cannot replace the Codeco. The application is therefore inadmissible. You can politically speak to try to make your point of view on the substance. But in this case, it is the form. The application is inadmissible, point to the line. We therefore turn to the motion of the N-VA and, more specifically, of Mr. From Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u78	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u79	Mrs Fonck, you can insist as much as you want, your motion is inadmissible!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u80	(...) I insist on the admissibility of this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u81	One person per group speaks in the debate on the motion Each group is therefore invited, if necessary, to speak on the question of this motion and to express its feelings. From the beginning, I am telling you that this concept not only does not have to be voted on individually, but that it is also inadmissible because it does not concern the work of the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u82	I read in Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure: "If the Speaker's decision is not satisfactory and the Member insists" – that is what I am doing – "the Speaker shall consult the House, who shall speak without debate, by sitting and lifted."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u83	The paragraph also states: "If the motion is declared admissible, it may be made at the time set by the Chair. If the President's decision is not satisfactory and the member insists (...)" This is the moment when we are going to position ourselves on the motion. There is no question of questioning a decision that is obvious. This is not about the work of the House, Mrs. Fonck. You're asking me to do something that's non-regulatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u84	Madam President, of course I hear the turn of events. For this reason, I raise a new point of order – still on the basis of Rule 54 – which is intended to raise an urgent inquiry today, pursuant to Rule 130-8 of the Rules of Procedure, concerning obviously the same issue of the revision of the closure of the cultural sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u85	Colleagues, I am reading the motion tabled by Mrs Fonck. Ms. Fonck's motion "invites the House today to hear an urgent inquiry, pursuant to rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure, concerning yesterday's decisions in the Codeco on the closure of cinema and theatre. Having heard the Prime Minister's answers to the current questions regarding yesterday's Codeco decisions on 23 December, since the decisions taken by the Codeco concerning the closure of cinemas and cultural theatres cannot be based on the conclusions of the GEMS, it is requested that the agenda of today's plenary be placed on an urgent basis, pursuant to Rule 130-8 of the Rules of Procedure, the inquiry tabled today by Mrs Fonck concerning the decisions taken by the Codeco yesterday with regard in particular to the closure of cinemas and cultural theatres." It is up to us to position ourselves on the urgency of this inquiry. We will obviously do it by sitting and rising. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request. Colleagues, there is an urgent inquiry. The request for an emergency is supported by the necessary number of Members and the urgency is accepted. It must be developed, if necessary, in session today, as it is supported by a fifth of the members. According to the Regulations, it can be developed within the same week if the government agrees. So we're going to consult with the government now. Mrs. Fonck, I'm step by step with the rules. Mrs Fonck, you have not indicated to which minister you are addressing your inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u86	To the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u87	We're making contact with the Prime Minister. We shall come back to Mr Peter De Roover's point of order, asking the government to deliver the texts on the core exit to the Chamber immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u88	We may have had some interventions here this afternoon that have fallen into deaf ears, with well-known views and so on. The government has informed Mrs van der Straeten that a draft law will be tabled on an extremely important matter. This case has been a matter for the Chamber. Everyone has asked questions about it. This is of the utmost importance, also in the context of energy security and its cost. That theme concerns everyone personally today. It is not a theoretical matter, it is a matter which appears in the invoices and which even threatens to create a problem of poverty. Against this background, the government's decision has thus acquired an additional meaning. Moreover, it is the conviction of the N-VA Group that a huge mistake is being made if we were to expel nuclear energy from our country at a time when it is experiencing a major revival in many neighbouring countries, when even within the European Commission and the European bodies the debate on whether or not nuclear energy should be regarded as green energy is coming to an end. That would push this whole discussion completely into a bizarre context, namely that the greenest government in history, according to the Prime Minister's ambition in presenting the coalition agreement, would stop the generation of energy in a green way. That would be very ironic. In order for this House to be able to carry out its work to the full within the context of the government's constant silenced openness and transparency, we ask for knowledge of the documents giving rise to the fundamental decision-making process. We are asking this question against the background of the uncertainty about what was decided last night, which has also been demonstrated by the debate, in which even the statements by the majority were contradictory. Both the Chamber and the public should have full information. If this House is informed, there will also be transparency towards the public. That is the reason for our motion, namely the question of making available to the Chamber the documents that have been used for this purpose and which seem to support this decision. We ask that the Chamber should also be able to see the draft law which was worried about the Council of State. I would have liked the Prime Minister to have made this motion meaningful by spontaneously offering us those documents. However, I do not believe I have heard that, and I therefore maintain this motion. I propose that the chairmen take a decision on this point of order. I suggest that the chairmen of the political groups take a stand on this order.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u89	The general discussion took place on Tuesday at the same time as the budget. The debate is now going on with Mr Leysen's oral report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that this is a re-launch as an oral rapporteur.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u91	Madam President, I would like to ask you to act consistently. You denied a member's right to speak at night because he wasn't wearing a mask. Mr Leysen has already put on more than his mouth mask today. If you have any consequence, you must also deny Mr Leysen the right to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee discussed this draft law at second reading this morning. The legislative note was delivered in advance to the members of the committee and the cabinet of the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance agrees with all the comments. They were incorporated with amendments and legislative corrections. During the discussion Mr Matheï explained Amendments Nos 10, 11 and 12. Amendment No 10 concerns an amendment to the legislative note. Amendments Nos 11 and 12 dealt with the adaptation that not only Belgian non-profit associations but also international associations are eligible as employers. The other adjustments are technical improvements. Mrs Matz then referred to Amendment No 1, which was rejected by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 13 explained that the aim was to allocate 100% of the corporate tax to the youth training of sports clubs instead of 55%. She explained that extensively. It stressed the importance of personal development and the social inclusion of young people. She also sued for everything that goes wrong in the football world. It regrets that there is only an adjustment of 50% to 55%. Mr Donné said that the new regime for expats is still less attractive to him than in neighbouring countries, particularly France. He also had specific questions about the legal expat scheme. He asked whether the exemption from the transfer of the company levy for research was contradictory or cumulative. He also asked for explanations on the particular tax system for incoming researchers, in particular whether the "project" aspect had been omitted and whether this was deliberate. He then asked for further explanations and commented on the provision that the legislation could be used within eight years. That is paragraph 9, which I shall abstain from you here. It is the effect of this scheme when someone moves from one employer to another. Finally, Mr Donné also had questions about the EUR 75,000 limit. How is it calculated? What happens if the holding tax is deducted and paid out on the basis of net wages rather than gross wages? If one stays below the limit of EUR 75,000, does this still apply? Mr Matheï then said that there were many points that had been made. In connection with the Minister's approach under the Football Clubs Scheme, he referred to a number of adjustments such as tax treatment, RSZ treatment, broker's wages and the supervision of anti-money laundering legislation. He has admitted that this is a first step. Mrs Matz then intervened to say that she appreciated the intention of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Government to clean up the football world, but that she thought a 100% exemption for youth work was better. Mr Marco Van Hees also contributed to Mrs Matz's argument by saying that the 100% exemption would indeed be better and should even be linked to an even greater obligation. The Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance replied and referred to what he had already said at first reading. He confirms that this is a first step. As far as Mr Donné's comment is concerned, he also refers to what he said about the Dutch expats system. In comparison with the French expats system, we need to find something that fits within the broad European framework. He warns us of such one-sided comparisons that make little sense. We have to take into account the context in which we find ourselves. With regard to the new expat scheme and the exemption from research and development spillover, he said that both systems could be combined. In addition, the Deputy Prime Minister stressed that at least 80% of the time should be devoted to research. In this context, the distinction between programmes and projects is not relevant. As far as the eight-year period is concerned, when another employer uses the system, the basic rule, which will determine whether or not to comply, is applicable. With regard to the EUR 75,000, he also confirmed that, if the farm levy is charged on top of gross wages, it constitutes a taxable advantage of all kinds. I can give you the vote on any Rule, but if you dismiss me, I will not do so. Amendments 10 to 12 were accepted, but not Amendment 13 by Mrs Matz. Before I give the results, I can inform you that a number of Members have had coffee during the meeting and I have tea. The majority against minority was adopted by 10 votes in favour and 4 against.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u93	Madam President, Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will talk about an important piece of this programme law, namely the financing of social security, which is becoming less and less secure in Belgium. While the government is taking numerous measures that put considerable pressure on social security, such as a threefold increase in unemployment benefits, little or no action is taken to increase social security income by focusing on higher levels of employment, more people at work. In the meantime, we are seeing an increasing amount of balance and also the resources flowing through alternative funding to social security. That is a worrying evolution. The Croo government seems to like to use the alternative funding to transfer extra tax resources, more tax money to social security. For all social security systems combined, the tax resources flowing through that alternative funding to social security for 2021 and 2022 are significantly higher than previous years, 2018, 2019 and 2020. So there has been a trend break at the moment that this purple-green government has come to power. In the meantime, increased pension expenditure also means that next year there will be a striking amount of fiscal resources flowing to social security through this balancing donation. In this way, the amount of taxpayers' money flowing to social security is increasing structurally. This means, and this must be our concern, Minister, that social security in this country is becoming less self-sufficient. Then the question is whether it is not time to do something about this. If you allow this to continue, you will sooner rather than later bump into the limits of the affordability of our social security. In this way you have a very great responsibility, Minister. In this way, you are making social security less and less secure for more and more people. Of course, the high flat rates you are using now are used consciously to increase the tax flows to social security. The Court of Auditors' report, which is striking, indicates that the VAT revenues of 2021 are similar to those of 2019, for the covid crisis. Then the question is why you don't just apply the 2017 law instead of using higher and higher flat rates. The only way to finance our social security in the future in a sustainable way, and thus make it more self-sufficient, is by, one, controlling expenditure and, two, broadening the basis on which social contributions can be collected, read: helping more people to work and not increasing the burden on labour, as you want to do. Your plans on the revenue side are downright worrying and wrong. For example, you want to get rid of the alternative forms of remuneration. You find it fundamentally unfair because there are no social contributions levied on it and because workers do not build rights on that part of their income. There is, of course, nothing wrong with looking at the alternative forms of remuneration. However, you cannot do so in our opinion without taking into account their reason for existence and their origins. These unpaid forms of remuneration have naturally arisen in order to compensate for the high burden on labour in this country. This means that the fundamental problem in this country is not that alternative forms of remuneration are untaxed, but that wages from labour in that country are overtaxed. This means that creating work in this country is incredibly expensive. This means that the difference between working and not working in this country for workers is getting smaller and smaller. What is happening here is typical of this government, a government run by a former liberal. This government does not initially want to address the high burden on labour in this country, but rather to question the untaxed nature of alternative forms of remuneration and thus increase taxes even more. That is, of course, very consistent for a government like yours. It fits perfectly into the logic of a left-wing government. The sharp increase in various social benefits that this government has implemented over the past one and a half years and continues to implement, the measures that make inactivity attractive in this country, that expenditure has to be paid with something. This must be done at a time when you do not make any effort to broaden the taxable base, because there is still no active labour market policy in this country, despite the expensive oaths that were sworn in when this government took office. We are almost halfway through this legislature and none of that comes into the house, nothing. In addition, this government transfers almost every socio-economic issue that has any importance to the social partners. We all know how many agreements the social partners have been able to conclude over the last 20 years. It was zero, unless they could transfer the invoice to the government and thus the taxpayer. This is happening again in this country. The result of this disastrous policy is increasingly spending, but there is no sign of sustainable social security funding. If we listen not only to the fine words of this government, but also, above all, to the actions, in particular the actions that the government does not make, it is quite clear that you have long given up the ambition of 80% efficiency, assuming that you have ever had that ambition. This government is therefore very cynical, because the bill is for whoever comes after us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u94	Madam President, the programme law has traditionally been discussed together with the budget for the following year. The programme law is, as it were, the new year's letter from the members of the government, who incorporate the implementing laws for their policies. When discussing the budget earlier this week, we have already pointed out that there is little or no innovative policy in the budget and programme law. On Social Affairs, Minister Dermagne's work deals exclusively with combating the covid pandemic in the field of employment, which makes sense, given the current circumstances. Money is provided for the National Agency for Annual Vacation, to provide financial support for the workers, as the period of temporary unemployment due to force majeure is considered by corona to be an equivalent period. However, this results in a well of around EUR 150 million. The fact that one third of the holiday money is paid by nine special greenhouses was forgotten, even though the Court of Auditors made an exhortational remark. Prosperity and myopia seem to have become synonyms for the government. For the rest, it is patiently seeking effective measures that support the labour market, which is in turbulent waters. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, for the part of Minister Lalieux's pensions, I have to say the same. Limited adjustments are made to the survivor's pension and the special scheme for the payment of the supplementary pension is on the brink, but there is no sign of a major reform in the programme law and in the supplementary budget. The Minister announced last Tuesday evening that she would come to Parliament very soon with her retirement plan, but a budget is not foreseen. Moreover, this should be budget-neutral without prejudice to existing arrangements. That's as much as saying nothing's gonna happen. The promise at the start of the government, already more than a year ago, is not being kept. What is the government waiting for anyway? The ambitions for pension reform were very high. Is the file underestimated? Or should we conclude that there is simply no consensus in the government? Mr Vandenbroucke's area of responsibility for social affairs is also being hot and cold. The plus plans largely lack their intended effect on job creation. That's not just what we say, that's what the Court of Auditors says. Costs are disproportionate to effectiveness. The adjustment of the measure is a bit in the right direction, but is still insufficient. What is not being addressed is our far too high burden on labour. If you work, you'll be punished. The opportunity to focus the measures on the initial objective of giving start-ups or small growth companies a boost has been completely lost. The announced approach to the RSZ scheme for top athletes has been greatly watered down and, in fact, the use of a KB has been placed behind Parliament's back. The problem of reintegration for long-term sick people is at our heart. This is another case where there are many interests in a way that we cannot support. Minister Clarinval of Self-employed and SME's is also guided by the corona crisis and comes down with two articles in the programme law. Many changes have also been made for the better in the past year, which may be clear. But 2022 will unfortunately again be dominated by the corona crisis. In addition, more initiative will be needed to bring the statutes into line; of the current situation, the self-employed are the main victims. The figures for the number of start-ups still active after five years are encouraging. However, it would be courageous to provide additional support during the start-up period, particularly in view of the measures announced yesterday, which will be cut down deeply on many self-employed people. Most importantly, people's confidence has been taken away. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the people are looking with their eyes at how the swarming Vivaldi ship cannot dock in the harbour. This morning we were able to read the harsh and strangling reactions of the people of the cultural sector following the incomprehensible harsh verdict of the government yesterday. Someone suggested that his circus show be given here, because it's the only circus in the country that can still work. It is a pity that people are beginning to talk about Parliament in this way. That's what you, the government, are responsible for. If the comparison weren't so good, we could still laugh about it. However, the fact that the population has to listen to such a cacophony orchestra is very worrying. The present programme law, which must be a translation of the 2022 policy, is therefore anything but a successful piece of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the programme law has already largely taken place. I will not repeat our opinion on this; my colleague Marco Van Hees has already expressed it. However, the discussion continues, including on how to deal with the corona crisis. This is important in the light of the programme law. In this context, there was the important meeting of the Consultative Committee with all the governments yesterday, which ignored the experts' advice and, among other things, unilaterally decided to close the cultural sector. The experts' report also included a number of preventive measures, which the PVDA has been defending for a long time. It is clear that if we do not focus on prevention, there will never be an end to the horrible yo-yo policy. The measures proposed by the experts include 100 % wage retention in case of quarantine or solutions when children have to stay at home due to the closure of the school. The experts' report was also very clear about the end-of-year parties. A survey showed that only 44% of vaccinees and 19% of non-vaccines intend to test before going to the end of the year party with the family. That's not enough. The GEMS has therefore recommended that self-tests be made available, just as we intend to do with our amendment, namely three self-tests per person per week. The Greens and Ecolo colleagues in recent days have failed to support this idea, which they have been defending for a long time. The Consultative Committee did not decide to do so. It can't be. Parliament can do that. The Chamber may decide to make free self-tests available in the context of our social security. I therefore call on you once again to support this measure. We also note that the healthcare sector is cracking. For us, the long-term investment of EUR 1 billion for the healthcare sector decided by the government today is not enough. In the debate over the last few days, I heard in response to our proposal to inject 1.9 billion in the healthcare sector for higher salaries, additional recruitment and better allowances for weekend and night performance, that it will never be enough. I think that's an outrageous answer. Does the Vivaldi government want to go back to the years of savings? It is clear that you do not want to invest further in the healthcare sector. That is why I call on you once again to support our proposal for investment for the care staff so that they can sustain it during the covid crisis, but also afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u96	Madam President, thank you. If I wanted to intervene again on the programme law today, it is because it contains, in the field of health, a part concerning the tariff security for patients with the new ceiling of the maximum to be billed (MàF) to 250 euros for revenues not exceeding 11,120 euros. This aspect of the MàF must, in the context of the tariff security of health care, be compared with the paying third party that is not included in the draft program bill, but in the bill containing various provisions. The latter was referred to the Council of State through amendments, not for the paying third party, but for several elements, including amendments from other opposition parties. We had tabled a series of amendments, including the introduction in this bill of various provisions of the INAMI power not to assign an INAMI number to qualified doctors and dentists if they do not have a quota certificate at the beginning of their studies - whereas the medical trainees are currently at the front in the fight against covid-19 - and also when doctors and dentists who have graduated from another European university get them without any limitation an INAMI number. If I link to this file, it is because the bill with various provisions contained the lifting of the ban on the application of the paying third party since, today, there is a ban on different types of health benefits - I will not enter the technicality - from the application of the paying third party. It is important that this removal of the prohibition on the application of the pay third party be implemented and implemented in this program bill. That is the purpose of the amendment that I am tabling. For the whole of the justification, including a previous judgment of the Council of State, I would refer, if I may, Madam President, to the written argument attached to my amendment. I am not going to repeat here, for the pleasure, the various technical arguments on the file. It is a matter of inserting a new Article 55a which specifically allows the repeal of the prohibition on the application of third parties paying for benefits not only of doctors but also of dentists and logopedes, which will apply on 1 January 2022, which will allow for the faster introduction of tariff security for patients. Madam President, this is the purpose of this amendment and the reason why I wanted to speak today on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u97	Madam President, I would also like to comment on the health aspect of this programme law, which has been the subject of important debate in committee. I just wanted to do it to be an account. This seems important to me because we are part of an opposition that, from the very beginning, wants to be constructive. I therefore wanted to point out some positive points, in particular the introduction of a lower ceiling for the user ticket as part of the maximum to be billed. Today, the lowest ceiling, 450 euros, is still a barrier to access to care for the most disadvantaged. Bringing this ceiling down to EUR 250 is an initiative that we must fully support, especially since it is known that Belgium is not among the best ranked in terms of personal participation in healthcare in the eyes of other countries of the European Union. However, any measure requires that its effects be anticipated, whether they are positive or not. In this respect, I am finally puzzled about the vagueness of the answers given by the minister in committee concerning the target group that will be able to benefit from this measure. We understand that the beneficiaries of these measures will be persons receiving less than EUR 11 0000 per year. But how many people does it represent exactly? How many people receiving income from work, for example those working part-time, will be affected by the reduction of this lower ceiling? In the debate in committee, the minister told us that he could not tell us how these measures will be useful for those who are still active in the labour market, and therefore those who are living on allowances or other benefits. In this regard, I remain convinced that concrete answers to these questions would enable the measure to be more targeted towards those who really need it. What about, for example, people who receive more than EUR 11,000 a year but are in a particularly vulnerable situation, which may include some workers? Why, too, did you stop at this specific income bracket of the household? We did not get an answer on this. Is it also planned to continue this measure for future years for other categories of income brackets? Moreover, it remains unclear what type of expenditure can be specifically covered by this MàF. In other words, while the measure is positive, it lacks transparency and, above all, clarity. I hope that this clarity can be brought to us by the minister. Finally, last regret with regard to this aspect of health: I can only deplore the total absence of specific measures with regard to health workers in this programme law. In committee, Mr.Minister, you explained that steps had been taken but that they did not deserve to be included in the text of this program legislation, except that you announced that reimbursement of the health care workers' protective equipment could be made by February 2022. However, this is an agreement in principle of the government, but there is still no royal decree in this regard. The same applies to the proposal to revise the IFIC system. A lot of this has been discussed in committee and in plenary. The budget supplement should be settled during budgetary control. This is by no means a new support measure since it is simply a matter of correcting the perverse effects of the IFIC system and thus ultimately the mistakes of the past which caused the salaries of specialized nurses to stagnate or even decrease. If the correction was necessary, what about the other categories of nurses who feel really left behind by your initiative? What about the support measures, knowing that the nursing problem goes well beyond IFIC. I hope that you will not present this measure as the panacea, which you have tended to do too often with the White Blouse Fund. I hope this time it'll be different.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u98	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u99	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2349/20) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2349/20) The bill has 155 sections. The draft law has 155 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u100	• 4... Sofie Merckx (2349/21)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u101	• Sofie Merckx (2349/21)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u102	• 13 – Sofie Merckx (2349/21)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u103	The discussion of the articles is closed. To be held at a later date: - the vote on amendments and reserved articles; - at the request of the Vlaams Belang Group, the split vote on Articles 1 to 37, 38 to 43, 44 to 47, 48 to 55, 56 to 63, 64 to 73, 74 to 79, 80 to 94, 95 to 97, 98 to 103, 104 to 117 and 118 to 155 and on the draft programme law as a whole. The discussion of the articles is closed. Will take place later: - the vote on the amendments which have been adopted and the articles which have been retained; - at the request of the Flemish People's Party, the split vote on Rules 1 to 37, 38 to 43, 44 to 47, 48 to 55, 56 to 63, 64 to 73, 74 to 79, 80 to 94, 95 to 97, 98 to 103, 104 to 117 and 118 to 155 and on the draft programme law as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u104	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2021, I propose that the Chamber, in accordance with the opinion of the Committee on Justice, decide whether to initiate the procedure pursuant to Article 45(2) of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority against two members of the Management Committee of the Data Protection Authority. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2021, I propose that the Court, in accordance with the opinion of the Committee on Justice, decide whether the procedure under Article 45 (2) of the Act of 3 December 2017 'establishing the Data Protection Authority' should be initiated by two members of the Management Committee of the Data Protection Authority. At its meetings on 1 July 2020 and 24 March 2021, the Conference of Presidents forwarded several elements of this dossier to the Committee on Justice. The Conference of Presidents sent several elements of this dossier to the Justice Commission on 1 July 2020 and 24 March 2021. Mr Khalil Aouasti reported on the work of the Justice Committee at the Conference of Presidents on 21 December 2021. Mr Khalil Aouasti reported on the Committee's work at the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2021. On the basis of Article 45 of the Law of 3 December 2017 'Establishing the Data Protection Authority', the Chamber may refer a member of the Management Committee to his or her office only if he or she has committed serious misconduct or no longer fulfils the conditions necessary for the performance of his or her duties. Article 45 also provides that a strict procedure must be observed in this respect. The term of office may be lifted only after the person concerned has been heard on the grounds given. Prior to the hearing, the Board shall prepare a file containing all the documents relating to the serious grounds invoked. Pursuant to Article 45 of the Act of 3 December 2017 on the establishment of the Data Protection Authority, the Court may exempt a member of the Management Committee from his mandate only if he or she has been seriously failed or no longer meets the requirements for the performance of the tasks. Article 45 also provides that a strict procedure must be followed. The term of office may not be terminated unless the person concerned has been heard on the grounds set out. Prior to that hearing, the Court shall draw up a file containing all the documents relating to the serious reasons put forward. In order to initiate this procedure, the Chamber must now determine, on the advice of the Justice Committee, whether there are sufficient grounds against two members of the Steering Committee of the Data Protection Authority. In order to initiate this procedure, the Court, on the advice of the Justice Commission, must now determine whether there are sufficient grounds for two members of the Management Committee of the Data Protection Authority. With the exception of the procedure for consulting the dossier, the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2021 found that there was no consensus on the procedure to be followed. This decision will be taken at a later date. Subject to the procedure for accessing the file, the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2021 established that there was no consensus on the further procedure. This will be decided at a later date. In view of the state of the proceedings, namely a preparatory phase for a possible formal lifting procedure, I propose that you do not mention names of the persons concerned or allegedly serious grounds in public meetings and, therefore, declare the obligation of secrecy referred to in rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure applicable at this stage of the proceedings. In view of the state of the proceedings, in particular a preparatory phase for a possible formal exemption procedure, I propose that until further notice, no names of persons concerned or alleged serious facts should be mentioned in public session and that the confidentiality requirement provided for in Article 67 of the Rules of Procedure should apply to this stage of the procedure. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2021, I also propose that members of the Chamber be able to consult the file on the secure extranet page of the Committee on Justice from Tuesday, 4 January 2022 until Tuesday, 18 January 2022. The necessary instructions will be provided in this regard. The obligation of secrecy referred to in section 67 of the Regulations applies. Furthermore, in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2021, I propose that members of the Chamber may consult the file on the closed extranet page of the Justice Commission from Tuesday 4 January 2022 until Tuesday 18 January 2022. The necessary instructions will be provided for this purpose. The obligation of professional secrecy referred to in Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure shall apply. "Pas-d-d-observation"? Are you sure you don't mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u105	According to the decision of the plenary meeting of 3 June 2021, the Joint Committee was in principle to table its report for December 2021, unless that period was extended by a decision of both Houses. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 3 June 2021, the Joint Committee should, in principle, submit a report by December 2021 unless this deadline is extended by a decision of both Chambers. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2021, I propose that the term of office be extended until 28 February 2022. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2021, I propose that the mandate be extended until 28 February 2022. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u106	Madam President, of course we have no objection to the extension of the mandate, but the original terms of reference were, as I have heard several colleagues, including Mr Calvo, say, to include as many themes as possible. I do not think it is right, then, for the extension, to limit these issues immediately to the three that are fixed. In this sense, we cannot agree with it, because there is no longer any chance of the issue being extended. That wasn't the committee's original agreement. But, of course, we do agree with the extension of the deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u107	This is about extending the deadline. Thus shall be done. That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u108	The effective members of the Board of Directors of the Human Rights Institute were appointed by the Chamber on 16 July 2020. The effective members of the Board of Directors of the Human Rights Institute were appointed by the Chamber on 16 July 2020. In accordance with Article 11, § 6 of the Act of 12 May 2019 establishing a Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, one third of the members of the Board of Directors are renewed every two years. In accordance with Article 11 (6) of the Law of 12 May 2019 establishing a Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, one third of the members of the Management Board shall be renewed every two years. At the plenary meeting on 16 July 2020, the term of office of one third of the actual members, namely Isabelle Fontignie (F), Muriel Clavie (F) and Evelyne Maes (N) and Willem Debeuckelaere (N), was established over two years. At the plenary session of 16 July 2020, the term of office of one third of the effective members, in particular Mrs Isabelle Fontignie (F), Ms Muriel Clavie (F) and Ms Evelyne Maes (N) and Mr Willem Debeuckelaere (N), was set at two years. The House must therefore proceed with the renewal of these terms of office. The Chamber should therefore renew these mandates. The Board of Directors is composed of twelve members, appointed by the House of Representatives, of whom no more than two thirds are of the same sex, six of whom are members of the Francophone linguistic role and six of whom are members of the Dutch-speaking linguistic role. The Governing Council shall be composed of twelve members appointed by the Chamber of Representatives, of whom no more than two thirds shall have the same sex and six of whom shall be of the Dutch language and six shall be of the French language. Given the kind of members whose term of office becomes vacant, the House must therefore appoint at least one female member. In view of the gender of the members whose terms of office are open, the Chamber should therefore appoint at least one female member. The members of the Governing Council shall be appointed on the basis of their competence, experience, independence and moral authority. They come from the academic, judicial, civil society and social partners. The members of the Governing Council shall be appointed on the basis of their competence, experience, independence and moral authority. They come in particular from the academic world, the judicial world, civil society and the social partners. These categories must be represented with a maximum of four members for each of them. These categories should be represented with a maximum of four members for each of them. The terms of office of the three current representatives of the judiciary become vacant and the academic world is currently represented by four members. The call for candidates must therefore cover at least one member of the 'judicial world' category and no candidate must be nominated for the 'academic world' category. The mandates of the three current representatives of the 'judicial world' category fall open. For the category 'academic world' already represented by four members, no mandates are open. The call for candidates should therefore cover at least one member of the category 'judicial world' and should not cover the category 'academic world'. A member of the Management Board whose term of office does not become vacant shall have knowledge of German. The Chamber must therefore not appoint a member with the knowledge of German. One member of the Management Board whose term of office is not open shall provide proof of the knowledge of German. The Chamber is therefore not obliged to appoint a member with knowledge of German. In accordance with Article 11, § 3, of the same Law, vacancies of office must be published no later than six months before the expiry of the term of office. In accordance with Article 11 (3) of the same law, the mandates that fall open must be published no later than six months before the expiry of the mandate. In accordance with Article 11, § 7, of the same Law, the Chamber must appoint an alternate member for each effective member. In accordance with Article 11 (7) of the same law, the Chamber shall appoint one alternate for each effective member. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2021, I propose that you publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the four terms of effective member and alternate member (from the categories 'judicial world', 'civil society' or'social partners') and establish the level of knowledge of German to C1 for reading and B2 for oral expression for candidates wishing to bring proof of knowledge of German. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2021, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the four mandates of effective and alternate member (from the categories 'judicial world', civil society' or'social partners') and establish the level of language knowledge German at C1 for reading and B2 for speaking. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u109	The government called for urgency in accordance with Article 51 of the Regulation when introducing the draft law transposing Directive (EU) 2019/1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 to equip the competition authorities of the Member States with the means to implement competition rules more effectively and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, No 2388/1. The Government requested the urgency statement pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law transposing Directive (EU) No. 2019/1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 conferring powers on the competition authorities of the Member States for more effective enforcement and for ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market, No. 2388/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u110	Madam President, the draft law in question concerns the transposition of Directive 2019/1 of the European Parliament and of the European Council of 11 December 2018 to provide Member States' competition authorities with the means to apply competition rules more effectively and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. Article 34 thereof provides that Member States shall implement the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by 4 February 2021 at the latest. Belgium is therefore lagging behind in transposing this directive. The European Commission has informed the SPF Economy, responsible for this transposition, that the Secretariat-General intends to move to the second stage of the infringement procedure for non-transposition, i.e. the sending of a letter indicating that Belgium has not yet completed the transposition. Within three months, the case will be referred to the Court of Justice of the European Union. In order to avoid this procedure and the imposition of possible fines, Minister Dermagne calls for urgent action in Parliament so that this bill can be passed and come into force as soon as possible. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u111	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip155x.u112	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. I also propose that you take into account and refer to the committee responsible: the motion for a resolution (Mr André Flahaut) on assistance to victims of the use of the "orange agent" during the Vietnam War, No. 2406/1. I would also suggest that you consider and send it to the committee responsible: the motion for a resolution (Mr André Flahaut) on the necessary support for the victims of Agent Orange's deployment during the war in Vietnam, No. 2604/1. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. Colleagues, we are waiting for the Prime Minister for the inquiry. We shall then proceed to the vote. I suggest that you suspend the meeting for a few moments. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting Thursday, 23 December 2021 at 5.50 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 23 December 2021 at 5.50 p.m.
