ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u1	Hello everyone and welcome to the Secretary of State. We are here to ask Mrs Schlitz a series of oral questions. Twenty-three items are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u2	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, in January I wanted to subscribe to the newsletter of the Federal Pension Service. I was surprised to know if I was a man or a woman before that. To subscribe to a newsletter from a federal government authority, that question seems totally irrelevant to me. If that question needs to be asked, it is at least as amazing that it is not possible to indicate a neutral third option. However, just before I asked this question, I saw that the registration form has been amended. I am delighted, Madam Secretary of State. So one must no longer fill out whether one is a man or a woman. However, I would like to ask the following questions. What is the federal government's policy on gender registration on forms? Do you agree with me that this question should not be asked when it is irrelevant? In what cases is such a question relevant, by the way? In that case, I suppose you agree with me that it should not only be possible to designate the binary option man-woman, but there should also be a neutral third option. What steps do you wish to take to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u3	Thank you for your questions, Mrs Willaert. I agree with you that additional attention should be paid to non-necessary gender registration. What you are quoting is a good example of that. It is also important to distinguish between the mention of sex on official documents, as stipulated in the 2019 Constitutional Court judgment, and the collection of data by private or public authorities, as in the case we are dealing with here. As Secretary of State, I constantly make public authorities aware of the sensitive nature of this data, but also of the importance of inclusiveness. I am looking, together with my colleague from the Justice Department, at the aspect of the necessary versus unnecessary gender registration in the context of the reform of the trans-law. In this context, I will not comment on which categories are to be added to M and V. I can tell you that there will be this debate and the corresponding legislative changes. Indeed, we must at least step away from the binarity. In addition, you know that it is important for this government that the government has an exemplary role. That is why I take your suggestion that we also discuss this matter with my colleague, Minister De Sutter, on federal government policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u4	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary of State. I know that you are keen on a solution and that you are also concerned about it. I notice that in this one case there was movement between January and June. I am pleased that you will look at the problem with Minister De Sutter. That's very good news. In addition, we will continue to monitor the issue in the context of the reform of the trans-law. It seems logical to me that, in the 21st century, we should at least step away from binaryity. It is important to make the distinction relevant. If relevant, there should be no more binary division. Thank you for your commitment, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u5	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, we had a long discussion last time about the Collectif contre l'islamophobie and Belgique (CCIB). That is an organization in which I ask myself a lot of questions. It's an organization whose sister, mother or daughter I don't know how to translate it. It's forbidden in France. You said the CCIB had nothing to do with the CCIF, the center against Islamophobia in France. You said the Belgian leg had nothing to do with that. I also put that question to Mr Van Quickenborne. He just said the opposite, he said that both have a lot to do with each other and that it is clear that those two organizations are daughters, sisters or brothers. There is therefore a discord in what the government is proclaiming to Parliament. The Justice Minister said they were brothers, and you said they had nothing to do with each other. That's very painful. What's the deal with that? You also said that you did not agree at all with the stigma of Muslim brotherhood and extreme Islamists and that you had met with them. They may have been digitally on the coffee. I assume this meeting was digital, I don't know if it was a physical meeting. That shockes me, because I think they stay quite far away from such organizations, especially as a government. You and I, we will never agree on the position of the headscarf, on the neutrality of the government. You don't have to. However, I think we agree that we must fight together against terrorism, against all forms of terror, extreme right-wing terror, but also extremist Islamist terror and extreme left-wing terror. It is quite far away from organisations which raise a lot of questions, because measures are being taken in France. What is your agenda against Islamism? Where and when did the meeting with CCIB take place? What was the agenda? What was discussed? What makes you think the CCIB has nothing to do with the CCIF? Will you continue to cooperate with the CCIB?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u6	Mr Franken, thank you for your question and your presence. It is finally an opportunity to have this discussion. I will answer your questions in the hope that this information will be sufficient to leave a small association such as the CCIB, an organisation that is constructively committed against discrimination against Muslims and that is being attacked for no reason. It is important for you that foreign radical ideologies are not imported to Belgium. Therefore, do not import foreign political problems that do not apply here. I spoke to the CCIB in the context of my general consultation with civil society, but also to talk more specifically about the project for which it receives federal grants. On 5 January 2021, my meeting with CCIB took place. On the basis of the information I know, I can only conclude that CCIF has no links with CCIB, simply because, as I have just pointed out to you, the CCIB is fighting constructively against Islamophobia and has been building partnerships with a large number of organisations and entities at all levels of government for many years. The CCIB receives subsidies not only at federal level, but also at regional and European level. This shows once again that the CCIB is a serious association that functions well. Now that I have had the pleasure of finding out more about their work, I can tell you that the CCIB works on two runs. It attaches importance to positive and solidarity actions and denounces human rights violations. Moreover, it mainly uses mediation to resolve conflicts. The CCIB's priority is to defend human rights. As I fully agree with these principles, I support cooperation with the CCIB and any civil society organisation that is committed to equal opportunities in the same transparent and constructive way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, you always tend to put me in my place. That is not a problem in itself, but if I am not mistaken, I was absent once and my question was then postponed. Something like that can happen. I am glad that we can exchange views and indeed, you have a busy agenda, but believe me, so do I. Nevertheless, I am always trying to be present in Parliament. If you say I can't import foreign conflicts, I don't understand what you're talking about. I saw you and yours protesting for Palestine. I follow politics in Brussels quite closely, and Ecolo has waged a true cultural war in this area. I think you're going to go on slippery ice, but fine, keep it up, we'll see how it ends. If in recent weeks one party imported external problems, it was your party. You say the CCIB had coffee with you in January. Was this a physical meeting or did it go digital? Physically, you say? I think that's punishment. I can't imagine that was the intention, but apparently for such an organization it can. Finally, you say that the two have nothing to do with each other, but that is clearly wrong. After all, Minister Vincent Van Quickenborne, who is also responsible for the security of the State, confirms to my colleague Koen Metsu that the two are indeed connected and very closely interwoven. Either you are lying or Mr Van Quickenborne is lying, but at least the government does not speak with one voice. I can only advise you to be careful with such organizations. That's all I can ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, on 8 March a press release was published by the National Bank on the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on gender inequality on the labour market. Until before the crisis, we saw that women's employment rates have been rising continuously for over 40 years. The central question is whether the crisis could lead to a weaker position for women in the labour market. In December 2021, we expect a study on the impact of parenting on the careers of women and men. You have already announced this in response to a previous question from me. It is awaiting this, but some interesting key elements have already been raised in this study. We all know that career breaks and reductions in working hours are mainly taken up by women. This was reinforced during the COVID-19 crisis. I've questioned you about this before. We saw that the corona parents' leave was taken by women at a rate of 71 percent. A positive note is that fathers were more involved in caring for the children, although it was still less so than women. Do you see opportunities for a structural mentality change, and if so, in what way do you want to strengthen it? The press release shows that women's access to telework has increased significantly: 42% of women compared with 37% of men. This brings an opportunity to improve the balance between work and private life, but it can also lead to greater psychosocial risks. Do you see possibilities for a proactive policy to mitigate these psychosocial risks, and if so, in what way? This will, of course, be done in cooperation with the Minister for Work. Unfortunately, after the corona crisis, bankruptcies will follow, as ING economists predict. Women have taken care of children even more than otherwise during the crisis and have been present at the workplace for less hours. As a result, there is a fear that they will be the first victims of restructuring. Do you see any possibility of a proactive policy on this issue? If so, in what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u9	Mrs Willaert, within the framework of the National Relance Plan, I have submitted a project of EUR 3 million which focuses specifically on the situation of women in the post-COVID-19 labour market. Like you, I am concerned about the situation of women in the labour market, not only because their situation has deteriorated because of COOVID-19, but also because we need to pay attention to the fact that not only the sectors that improve the employment of men are being supported. My relay project contains an analysis of gender equality in the labour market. The aim is to identify and monitor the issues of gender equality in the labour market in general, but also the specific consequences of the covid crisis. Project calls will also focus on the inclusion of vulnerable women in the labour market and the impact of digitalisation. The project provides for a valorisation phase to develop concrete policy recommendations, training materials, awareness tools and tools. A awareness campaign is also planned. The overall project aims to identify the specific needs of vulnerable women and to develop tools to support them, but also to raise awareness and to change attitudes. Gender mainstreaming will also be applied to the overall relay plan. In a transversal way, the whole set of relay measures is considered to ensure that the measures do not promote gender inequality. The institute is a member of the GT Impact at government level that oversees the plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, I think you have said a number of important things. The problem of the position of women in the labour market was long before COOVID-19. It is important to carry out a general analysis, with particular attention to a number of issues that have potentially deteriorated on the right track. We must pay due attention to this. What you have said about the inclusion of more vulnerable women is also very important, because there is, of course, also a distinction between different groups and different characteristics of women. It is important from an intersectional perspective to deal with this in this way. I would also like to hear that concrete tools, handles and a awareness campaign will be used. It is also very important that gender mainstreaming is applied to the whole policy and the relaunch plan. I have a great deal of faith in someone like you in that chair to keep an eye on all this, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, the report of the 2020 World Economic Forum (WEF) on gender equality reveals that the pandemic has slowed the egalitarian process once again. Today, it will take another 36 years to close the gap, bringing to a total of 135.6 years to achieve global equality. At the Belgian level, the pandemic seems to have had a greater impact on women than on men, but to a lesser extent. Unfortunately, we are only 13th on this list. If, at the level of education and health, we achieve almost perfect equality, it is clear that at the level of economic opportunities and participation as well as at the political level, we still have great efforts to make. High-level positions, for example, remain mostly the business of men and political affairs, although, and it should be stressed, an important step forward has been made by this government, which is now perfectly egalitarian. Madam Secretary of State, have you read this report? What are your impressions of this one? What do you think are the priorities for achieving greater equality, particularly in terms of economic and political participation? What initiatives do you intend to take in the short and medium term in this context? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u12	Mrs Rohonyi, Mr Prévot, I have read the report of the 2020 World Economic Forum on Gender Equality. This crisis, like others before it in history, has a far greater impact on women than on men, in all spheres of society. As you will recall in your question, Ms Rohonyi, as part of the recovery plan, at my request, the Institute for Gender Equality (IEFH) will be part of the GT Impact in order to assess the impact of the recovery plan projects on gender inequalities. I welcome the framework that was laid down in the negotiations for the recovery plan. It is my colleague Thomas Dermine who has repeatedly affirmed the importance of taking gender equality into account in the recovery plan. He is the guarantor. The European Commission has also reminded Member States of the importance of equal opportunities and gender equality and has invited them to take this into account in their recovery plans. Beyond the overall approach, I have obtained that a specific project for women's employment is financed through this plan. With a budget of €3 million, the project aims to increase the employment rate of women, especially the most vulnerable. As a reminder, in 2019, the employment rate of women was only 66.5%, while that of men was 74.5%. In 2018, only 24% of 15-64-year-olds with disabilities were employed. The employment rate for non-EU nationals is 52%. Women at the crossroads of these criteria are therefore less likely to find a job. It is to the most vulnerable groups that I intend to lead the project. I commit to present to you the project developed within the IEFH as soon as the first results are available. Combating harassment in the workplace is also one of my priorities. It is not enough to enter the labour market, but it is necessary to be able or willing to remain there. If harassment, especially sexual harassment, is present in the working environment, the women who face it will leave it as long as their economic situation permits. In this context, there is an urgent need to ratify and implement ILO Convention 190 on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment in the Workplace. I also intend to act against the glass ceiling that prevents women from gaining access to top management functions. In this regard, the Quotas Act requires public and publicly traded companies to have one third of their employees in their CA. This law has proved its worth as women are currently three times as many in the CAs in ten years, while 80 per cent of companies have complied with this law. Some challenges remain. Recent figures have shown that only 5% of women hold seats as presidents. There are also good practices to be promoted, such as the presence of women in positions of responsibility, which must be developed, in particular through the exemplary nature of government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u13	Indeed, Madam Secretary of State, gender equality has unfortunately not been spared by the pandemic. Thank you for presenting the situation and reminding us of your priorities. You are aware of all this, and there is no doubt that this government will continue to work in the right direction, in particular to gain a slightly more enviable place at European level, although, as I mentioned in my question, the joint composition of this government is likely to lead Belgium back in the ranking. I will not fail to return to you in the weeks and months to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your detailed answer. It seems to me that my colleague will be asking a question later on gender mainstreaming. This must be ensured in all our policies and also mainstream the gender dimension in all aspects of the recovery plan. That is the will of your government, and I thank you for that. The challenge is really to prevent this post-crisis period from continuing to widen inequalities between men and women. I am therefore pleased to hear that a specific budget is planned to increase the employment rate of women. I would nevertheless be curious to know its ventilation. As is well known, the needs of the sector are extremely important. We've come a long way. I know that the political will is there. I thank you for this commitment because it is not only a question of equality but also of emancipation and economic common sense. If we want an ambitious and effective economic recovery plan, we must support half the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u15	This is a follow-up question to a written question that I had asked you and to which you replied very correctly with figures. However, when I got the figures, I felt that I needed to zoom in on them a little further. In my written question No. 47 I asked you about the figures on the number of reports of victims of intra-family violence at the care centres and how these victims are taken care of after they have received proper care. That's the follow-up. Your answer was mainly about the general figures of victims of sexual violence, including those when the perpetrator does not live within the household. It is clear that victims of intra-family violence, sexual violence or abuse cannot return to a safe home environment if the offender is there. That was difficult to derive from your answer to my questions, because that split was not made. That's the only reason I'm asking a follow-up question. Can you also give me the figures on the number of victims of intra-familial or sexual violence and abuse sent back home after all? What's the reason for that? Are they being followed in any other way? Is there a cost for the victims?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u16	Thank you for your question, Mrs Van Peel. In reply to written question No. 47 the available figures were communicated with regard to the number of victims from which the perpetrator comes from the family context and the number of victims who do not return home after a notification at the care centre. The number of victims of intra-family violence who cannot return home after visiting a Care Centre after Sexual Violence is not recorded as such. The safety of all victims is one of the main concerns of the care centre. In consultation with the victim, therefore, a safety plan is always drawn up. In doing so, it will be examined whether it is appropriate for a victim to return home after her visit to the care centre or whether other options should be considered, such as a refuge. In addition, the model "Health Care Centre after Sexual Violence" uses a specific reporting code which gives ZSG staff guidance in assessing a situation of serious and imminent danger to the victim, in particular in relation to intra-family violence. In addition, due to the needs of a victim, a warm referral to specific aid agencies is always provided. The care and follow-up of victims by the ZSG staff is always a free service.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, perhaps that should be recorded, because a policy that is based on real figures always produces. Your answer is, of course, much more important for the rest. You're talking about a warm referral. I understand that a solution is being sought, especially in the case of financial problems, so that no one is sent home because one cannot afford a certain kind of care. That's already very important. If they do go back home, even if the killer is there, there will be a follow-up from the care center. That's how I understood your answer. Is that right? Then I am very pleased with your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u18	For the report, it is important to note that a zero has slipped too far in the State Secretary's reply. It happens. No problem at all. I keep to my question, but I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u19	Mrs van Peel, first of all, a mistake has crept into the table at the answer to Question No 44. The vzw Amazon receives 450,000 euros and not 4.500,000. We are also correcting this mistake for your colleague, Mr Loones. The number of organisations supported has remained unchanged during recent legislative periods. The amounts in support of these organisations were subject to certain savings during the previous legislatures. The Amazon vzw has three major missions for which it receives structural resources. Firstly, to support women's associations, including by offering housing, a congress and a meeting infrastructure to associations. Secondly, to support the effective and efficient functioning of women's associations. Thirdly, promoting actions and events that facilitate synergies and exchanges between women's associations. Each organisation must submit an annual budget and a work plan with concrete objectives to the Institute for Gender Equality. This budget and these work plans shall be approved by the Institute's Management Board. Every grant awarded, both to the care centres and to the women's organisations, is thoroughly examined. The balance shall be paid only after approval by the Institute's Management Board, on the basis of a thorough audit of each organisation's final financial and substantive report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u20	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. You do understand that my question would be a little more relevant, should that zero be correct. Then it was about 4.500,000 euros. It's a little less. What I would like to give you is that in Flanders there is a discussion about subsidy flows, because of certain issues that have emerged in these flows. That is why we are asking questions about the control of subsidies to all kinds of non-profit organisations. That's where my question comes from. When I see these different subsidies in a row, I fear that a huge amount of money will be lost from fragmentation. I hope that it is not a taboo for you to take a closer look at that. Should the means at your disposal to achieve equality between women and men not be placed directly at the bottom instead of intermediate structures? As far as I am concerned, this exercise is not just a challenge for you, but for every minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u21	Mr President, as the questions were joined, I prepared a slightly longer answer. How can we fix this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u22	A question has not indeed been asked. If you know how to split the answers, you answer Ms. Rohonyi. On the other hand, if this is a global response, you will read it out. It seems simpler.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u23	All right. Let's do this!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u24	Implementation of the 2007 Gender Mainstreaming Act is one of my priorities. On 24 March, government policies with a significant gender dimension were the subject of a very broad consultation with civil society. During this consultation, several associations drew attention to the situation of single-parent families, in particular with regard to the payment of maintenance payments, integration into the labour market, individual rights, mental burden, mental health and reconciliation between private and professional life. These various recommendations have been forwarded to the relevant ministers. My particular focus is on single parent families, 80% of which are single mothers. On March 26, I had the opportunity to speak with several members of the single parent group. On March 31, I also met the Wonderfuls Association, which is also made up of solo moms. In concrete terms, the Government has committed itself to implementing the recommendations of the Court of Auditors with regard to SECAL. We will take the necessary steps to expedite the granting of an acknowledgement of receipt to the creditor in the event of non-payment. I will, of course, work with Minister Van Peteghem to better protect single-parent families. Under the "vulnerable groups" task force coordinated by Minister Lalieux, general measures can also be taken for single-parent families. For example, CPAS received an allocation of 10 million to develop new actions or strengthen projects in the areas of mental health, psychological well-being and pedagogical support. With regard to your question about the procedure for collective settlement of debts, when the former spouse made himself insolvent, many women with children find themselves alone in having to repay debts incurred during the common life. It is, of course, an economic burden which imposes all the more on single-income households. The situation was aggravated by the decline or lack of income, as a result of the cessation of economic activity due to measures to combat covid-19. With the relevant ministers, I would also like to explore the possibility of losing the debts of ex-partners. I have no doubt that you will also address them on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u25	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your detailed answer. I thank you very much for your commitment to supporting these single-parent families, which represent one in three families in Brussels. This demonstrates the magnitude of this phenomenon, which puts enormous financial pressure on women, as it is mainly women who are affected. They tell me very often that they can't get sick, that they can't have a blow, or they can't get under debt and they won't be able to bear financial costs. They must bear these costs for themselves, but also for their children. I even hear that some of them, because they can't make ends meet, prefer to place their children. I am very pleased to hear you say that there is consultation with the women in question, with the associations that represent them. But I also think that there is a need to work more with the other levels of power, since we are dealing here with the issues of family allowances, the favourable rates for services, transport, etc., for which the federated entities are competent. There is also the issue of parental leave, which is a federal responsibility. I hear your willingness to implement the recommendations relating to the Maintenance Receivables Service (SECAL), which are of great interest to us because DéFI is the originator of this service, which dates back to 2004. However, SECAL is underfunded and I wonder whether the evaluation of this service has also focused on its funding. This does not take into account extraordinary expenses, for example when a child needs to wear glasses. I invite you, in addition to the consultation that you have implemented with the voluntary sector, to work more with your counterparts, in the Interministerial Conference on Vulnerable Groups and in the Conference on Women's Rights. Why not bring together at some point the work of these interdepartmental conferences in order to address these fundamental issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u26	Mr President, at the end of April 2021, the UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination published a report examining the situation in Belgium. The Committee makes a number of recommendations. I would like to hear your comments on these recommendations. The first recommendation is to adopt a national action plan against racism. As a result of this recommendation, I would like to ask you how far you stand with the inter-federal action plan against racism. Which organisations are involved in their design? When can we expect the action plan? The report also deals with racist hate talk. What actions do you plan to take in this area? As regards the situation of the Roma, the report recommends adopting a new Roma inclusion strategy. Have you provided for special actions for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u27	Mr Prévot, Ms Rohonyi, Mrs Platteau, the Federal Parliament passed the law on the creation of the Human Rights Institute on 25 April 2019. The current government has set itself the objective of providing Belgium with an institute that is both efficient and internationally recognized in accordance with the Paris principles. This commitment was reiterated in the recent universal periodic review of Belgium. The Institute is expected to be fully operational in July. The idea is also to be inter-federal. The federated entities will therefore be closely involved in this discussion. As far as the inter-federal action plan against racism is concerned, it is indeed 20 years since Belgium has committed itself in this respect. During all this time, the various governments have not made any progress. We can't wait any longer. From the point of view of urgency, I am committed to doing everything I can to ensure that the plan is adopted before the end of this year. I hope my colleagues in the IMC share this sense of urgency. The ultimate goal is to achieve an action plan that has an impact in the fight against all forms of racism, as defined by law. The Action Plan provides an inclusive framework for combating racism in all its forms. The process of drawing up this plan is inter-federal and participatory. It therefore takes time and time to involve all stakeholders. I have always advocated the participation of Unia and civil society in the preparation of the plan. Technical working groups, coordinated by the federal and federal governments concerned, have developed the draft plan. Unia and the NAPAR coalition participated. In the meantime, there are already concrete text proposals that we are discussing at political level. For me, it is important that civil society stays involved after that. We therefore want to set up a follow-up committee for the implementation and evaluation of the plan, in which civil society also participates. This committee should include, inter alia, federal and federated equal opportunities administrations, equality bodies such as Unia, representatives of cities and municipalities and anti-racism associations. In addition to the NAPAR plan, I will also devote myself, within the framework of my competences, to specific target groups in the fight against anti-Semitism, Afrophobia, Islamophobia and discrimination against Roma people. The Senate resolution of December 14, 2018 will be considered in this context. Indeed, the CERD report recommends taking necessary measures to prevent and combat racist hatred.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u28	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your detailed answer. As far as I'm concerned, I got the answer to all my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I hear your willingness to make this very important point, which was contained in the government agreement, and which also referred to a timetable for implementation and a concrete definition of responsibilities. At this level, I can tell you that I see it a little less clearly. However, I must pay tribute, in particular, to your commitment, since it was not included in the government agreement, to focus on certain target groups, since racism is not necessarily experienced in the same way depending on the target group in which it is found. Racism is not expressed in the same way according to the ethnic group that is being targeted. I would also like to draw your attention to the need to treat this problem of racism as a structural problem. I know you're aware of that. Racism is expressed on the public road, but also in the virtual sphere. We need to take into account this problem of cyberhaine and, to that end, take into account the evolution of technologies. It won't be a big deal. In addition, I would also like to support two requests made by Unia in particular. As you have consulted them, I am confident that these requests will be taken into account. This is the establishment of a monitoring body for the implementation of this plan. Indeed, after its implementation, care must be taken to ensure its proper implementation and effectiveness vis-à-vis, in particular, all the target groups that should be protected from racism. The aim is also to ensure the participation of civil society and academics in all key stages of the development of this action plan. Unia is the preferred partner in drawing up this plan, but I think that a whole section of civil society also deserves to be heard in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u30	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. Indeed, 20 years ago, Belgium undertook to draw up an inter-federal action plan against racism. It is problematic that that plan is still not there. However, it is a good thing that you understand the urgency and that you are working on it. Racism is, after all, an important social problem, as the current situation unfortunately regularly demonstrates. The UN Committee's report also puts our noses on the facts. The recommendations encourage us to take action. You say we can expect the plan by the end of the year. We're looking forward to that. Civil society must be strongly involved in the design of this plan, as it will play an important role in its implementation. I do not think you have answered my question about the situation of the Roma, which was also the subject of a recommendation. Maybe we can come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u31	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the Brussels Council for Equality between Women and Men (CEFH) has published a report on the impact of the covid on inequalities between women and men. This text, although regional, presents discrimination that transcends the boundaries of our levels of power. That is why I would like to ask you about this today. As we know, women are far more affected by the crisis than men, whether in terms of employment, wages, training or mental health. Most of these are women's occupations that were on the front line during the pandemic (caregivers, cashiers, domestic workers, etc.).). In addition, they are still the ones who have to take care of the children, of the education at home, this famous mental charge. The CEFH has issued a series of recommendations to provide ideas and guidance to the authorities. The public body proposes, inter alia, to strengthen the public space against gender-based and sexual violence or to strengthen the mix of occupations to counter the effects of segregation and scarcity. The main recommendation, cross-cutting to all others, is to integrate gender mainstreaming into all laws. This attention makes it possible to incorporate equality between women and men from the beginning to the end of the legislative process. This is a structural and preventive approach, as it aims to prevent public authorities from putting in place policies that create or exacerbate inequalities between women and men. In short, it is a question of putting every law under the magnification of these gender discriminations. Madam Secretary of State, have you read the report of the CEFH, which goes far beyond the single framework of the Brussels-Capital Region? Is the integration of gender mainstreaming into all of our laws or is it still one of your priorities for this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u32	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prévot, in my policy statement, I committed myself to implementing the Gender Mainstreaming Act 2007 to mainstream gender into all government policies, programs and actions. The objective of this cross-cutting integration is that all public policies contribute to strengthening equality between women and men, while addressing structural and historical imbalances. In this context, and on my initiative, the Council of Ministers on 22 January approved the first stage of the implementation of the Federal Gendermainstreaming Plan. This decision implies that each member of the government is committed to effectively taking the gender dimension into account in the development and implementation of its policy. As Secretary of State for Gender Equality, I am responsible for centralizing all of my colleagues' proposals and coordinating the implementation and follow-up of the Federal Gender Mainstreaming Plan. On March 18, I established the Interdepartmental Coordination Group (ICG), composed of representatives from the strategic units of the various federal cabinets and federal governments. All members of this group had the opportunity to take training in this field, provided by IEFH. This process also involves consultation with civil society. Moreover, on 24 March, I brought together more than 65 associations to consult them on the measures they consider to be priorities and to which gender mainstreaming should be applied. This contribution was then communicated to the members of the government. As I speak to you, each minister of La Vivaldi has proposed the policies on which he/she is committed to conducting a gender reading. The government will formally approve them later this month. This plan is an unprecedented commitment, which demonstrates the government's determination to make equality between men and women a real priority under this legislature. With respect to your question on Regulatory Impact Analysis (RIA), members of the government have committed to paying particular attention to it. I recall that this instrument, originally referred to in the 2007 Gender Mainstreaming Act, was then included in a broader law, dating back to 2013, which deals with administrative simplification. The impact on equality between men and women is therefore only one of the 21 themes included in the AIR. Together with my colleagues who are directly involved in this analysis – for example, the Secretary of State for Administrative Simplification, the Minister of SMEs or the Minister of Sustainable Development – I will examine how to make this tool as effective as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u33	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your detailed answer. In your policy statement to which I was present, you indicated your willingness to comply with the 2007 law and to integrate gender mainstreaming into all laws. That was indeed your general policy statement and he is pleased to hear that a new course was taken in January. At the same time, your colleagues are currently working on the priority policies of their spheres of competence where gender mainstreaming could be integrated and they should therefore visibly submit their reports by June. Madam Secretary of State, I will of course take stock with you in the coming months, but I have the impression that, for this and for others, it is moving in the right direction and it is happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u34	Debates of the European Parliament 55017489C by Mrs Van Peel and 55017558C by Mrs Bury will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u35	Madam Secretary of State, as you know, Belgium has always been progressive with regard to the rights of homosexuals, and we can be proud of that. Our legislation, however, lacks an asset to continue to be at the forefront of the fight against homophobia. This legal vacuum has as its subject conversion therapies. Conversion therapies aim to convert the person from the LGBTQI+ community to the path of heterosexuality. These therapies can be done through several methods: forced meditation, testosterone injection, electroshocks and even exorcisms – as was the case in Belgium when a lesbian was burned alive in 2014 in Antwerp. It has been proven through several testimonies that these practices exist in our country within harmful sectarian organizations. Since March 2018, the European Parliament has called on its Member States to ban this type of therapy. Several countries have already legislated in this direction, such as Germany and Malta. Madam Secretary of State, we must follow the opinion of the European Parliament and include in the law the prohibition of conversion therapies so that Belgium continues to combat homophobia effectively. Have you read the call of the European Parliament of March 2018 for the prohibition of conversion therapies? Will Belgium follow this call? Do you intend to legislate for the prohibition of conversion therapies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u36	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I will not repeat everything Mr Prévot has said, but homosexuality is still seen in many communities as a disease or a condition which one must try to cure. That is, of course, a very damaging and stigmatizing approach, and that is completely unacceptable to Vooruit. The United Kingdom would now start the so-called conversion therapy. That was in The Queen's speech we heard a few weeks ago. I have the following questions. What is your position? Does a ban also seem to be the way Belgium should go? Conversion therapy in our country is a more unknown phenomenon. More research on this would be appropriate. In Germany a lot of research has already been done on this subject, and in the United Kingdom it seems that this is now being planned. Are there any plans to launch an investigation on this or are there any investigations already under way? Have you looked into the matter with Minister of Justice Van Quickenborne? Can you give us an update?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u37	Thank you, Mr. Prévot and Mrs. Jiroflée, for your questions. Indeed, Mr Prévot, I have been well aware of the European Parliament's resolution of 2018, which made it possible to highlight the problem of conversion therapies, which is still too little discussed. Several countries have responded to Europe's call and have legislated on these unacceptable practices. Belgium still does not have legislation to prohibit conversion therapies, although certain acts constitute criminal offences such as fraud, abuse of weakness, inhuman and degrading treatment or intentional assault. Mrs Jiroflée, I will indeed look into this in order to find a solution that will put an end to these homophobic practices. We must be able to reach out to those who carry out these treatments, as well as those who advise them and those who use them. These practices are indeed not the exclusive domain of certain religious groups, as one would think, but they are related to different disciplines, sometimes even medical. Conversion therapies are therefore not the prerogative of a particular religion or belief and may take many forms. I fully support a ban on these practices, but it is necessary to evaluate and measure these phenomena in order to define an effective strategy to put an end to them. With this in mind, I intend to cooperate with health care institutions, the FPS Public Health, relevant civil society and Unia at first. As Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities and Gender, I want to convey a very clear message: conversion therapies do not have a place in our country. Again, conversion therapy doesn't belong in our country. I will enter into a dialogue with my colleague Mr. Van Quickenborne on this. I would also like to thank you, Mrs Jiroflée and Mr Prévot, as well as the other authors of texts on the question of conversion therapies, for the work you have already done. It will be very useful in the search for the most protective solution for LGBTQI+ people in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u38	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your unambiguous answer. Conversion therapies are obviously unacceptable and of some other time. A progressive country like ours cannot remain deaf to the call of the European Parliament. We need to legislate as quickly as possible to ban these existing and existing conversion therapies. But I do agree with you: before we legislate, it is always good to be able to objectiveize the phenomenon. I hear that this is what you want to do by contacting several institutions, and therefore, when the phenomenon is objected to, your will is to lead to the suppression and the prohibition of these therapies outright. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u39	Madam Secretary of State, I would also like to thank you very much for your reply. I'm glad you agree with us, but I didn't expect anything else either. Of course, these practices do not belong in our country. I would like to draw your attention to the proposal made by Mr Prévot and myself, but you have already mentioned it yourself. We're always willing to think with it. It is a good thing that an investigation is being carried out in the first place. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament 55018223C by Mrs Jiroflée was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u41	Madam Secretary of State, I was recently contacted by a woman who calls herself Jessica without a last name. It's about a woman who's been a victim of stalking for years. She has launched a petition asking for protection measures for victims of stalking to be made more accessible. One of the aspects she raises is that people who are stalked and want to change their names for that reason, which she does not think can be because the name change is published online in the Belgian Official Journal. This makes it very easy to start looking up the name change with online search engines. She also asked in her petition to make the procedures to change her name more accessible. It may be envisaged to make it free of charge or to relax the procedure. In her petition, she also specifically asks to be no longer dependent on a judge's judgment, but to be able to motivate the name change itself on the basis of his own assessment of the danger. It is also possible to abandon the obligation to publish in the Belgian Official Journal. I know that you consider gender-related issues to be very important and she sees them as a serious problem. You are also working on a national action plan on gender-based violence. That is why I would like to put a number of questions to you. Do you think making the name change procedure more accessible and relaxing the publication obligation is an effective measure against stalking? Why is that? Why not? What protection measures will you provide for victims of stalking in the National Action Plan to combat gender-based violence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u42	Thank you, Mrs Platteau, for drawing my attention to this important issue. It is certainly necessary to provide better protection for victims of stalking. I am absolutely open to the suggestions and ideas that come from citizens or from civil society itself. I run my policy for them and with them. The petition calls for a ban on contact or change of name to be made available to everyone on the basis of their own judgment of danger and disconnected from the judgment of a judge. That seems practically possible to me. For certain witnesses there is indeed a change of name, but there are conditions attached to it. This is done, for example, through the Minister of Justice and the Witness Protection Committee. In addition, by facilitating a change of name, responsibility is again placed on the victim. It's not the victims who have to make themselves invisible or untraceable. I fear that the real problem will be ignored. All forms of gender-based violence need to be tackled at their roots. Moreover, the perpetrators are most often people from the immediate vicinity, where a name change is not usually an efficient measure either. The (...) of the ban on contact has already been incorporated in the reform of the penal law with the Minister of Justice, Vincent Van Quickenborne. I confirm the petition's call to better protect victims of violence. That is a constant focus for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u43	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I am pleased that you pay attention to victims of violence and want to offer them better protection. It's important that we talk to people who are experienced experts. From their experience, they can provide the necessary levers to give these people a safer feeling or to guarantee their safety. I understand, however, that there are objections to the idea of decoupling a name change from a judge. Thank you for pointing that out here. You're referring to the Witness Protection Committee. It is true that many victims experience a great administrative burden when they raise violence and seek protection. The burden of proof is high for them, too. I therefore believe that the action plan against gender-based violence should consider how to simplify these administrative burdens so that victims are not burdened with them. Indeed, it is not the victims of stalking who have to make themselves invisible. The problems must be tackled at the root. In this sense, a change of name for many people will not be the only or the most efficient measure. I look forward to the national action plan against gender-based violence. I am sure we will discuss it in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u44	Madam Secretary of State, new research by Ghent University@Work, a dome of various universities, commissioned by Kom op tegen Kanker, shows that anyone who has won the fight against cancer and wants to get back to work, is still discriminated against. New in this study is that the employer's role in this discrimination is also investigated. Employers tend to discriminate either because they fear that the person who overcame cancer will become ill again, or because too many reasonable adjustments have to be made to the work organisation or to the organisation of the workplace. I come to a number of additional, remarkable findings from the study. Having a cancer experience is less detrimental to male applicants. This is also the case if a woman decides who is recruited or if the person who decides on it has already had a cancer experience. However, the legislation on this issue is quite clear: this discrimination has been prohibited since 2007. This is confirmed by various case law, which shows that cancer can be regarded as a handicap, which obliges employers to make reasonable adjustments if there are permanent injuries. I have already asked the Minister for Work, and he promised to raise my awareness about this and also to use the inspection services to combat this discrimination, which affects not only ex-cancer patients, but everyone who has been through a disease and therefore has fewer opportunities to get or retain a job. Moreover, my question to you, the Minister for Work, referred to you by Mr Oomen-Ruijten, is above all whether the anti-discrimination law should not be clarified in this area, so that people have the right to be forgotten, as is the case in the insurance sector, so that their chances can be enforced on the basis of clear legislation and not always through the courts. Do you know that study? What are your findings? Are you prepared to consider whether anti-discrimination legislation in this area should be clarified so that these people can retain all opportunities and also enforce reasonable adjustments? Can you also look at gender equality, as men get more opportunities after such a disease? What can happen for women with a cancer experience or with another disease, such as depression, to increase their chances?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u45	Thank you, Mrs Vanrobaeys, for drawing my attention to this serious problem. It is essential for me to pay attention to all the grounds for discrimination. During this legislature, I will make anti-discrimination legislation more effective, using the recommendations of the competent evaluation committee. I am currently working on strengthening the protection of witnesses of discrimination. This will enable an employee who is aware of discrimination in recruitment to report it, without having to fear reprisals himself. The discrimination tests also play an important role in this. As you know, a draft law on this matter was recently adopted at first reading. This relaxation will make the test effective for all grounds of discrimination and thus also the state of health or disability. However, sensitisation remains a priority. Many employers do not know what reasonable adjustments are possible or what their obligations are. I am therefore pleased to hear that you have already discussed this with my colleague, Minister Dermagne. Finally, you are right to draw attention to the increase in discrimination against women. Unfortunately, the patriarchy has an influence on all levels and in all areas of our society. I certainly have attention to this in my policy. It is my absolute priority to fight against these patriarchal ideas and discriminations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u46	Madam Secretary of State, you want to make anti-discrimination legislation more effective on the basis of recommendations from the committee. I believe that this is an important element, which is dealt with both by Kom op tegen Kanker and in the annual reports of Unia. It is not only an existing disease or disability, but also an earlier disease can give rise to discrimination in the labour market. Research clearly shows that employers are afraid that these people will relapse or that they will have to adapt too much. I believe that anti-discrimination legislation needs to be adapted to that effect, by including that element. Employers then know very clearly that this is also a grounds for discrimination. I will take an initiative in this matter myself and I would like to be kept informed of your initiatives so that we can work well together to offer them every opportunity. The Minister of Work has already promised me that he will raise awareness and that he will also have this element examined by the inspection services in the field tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u47	Madam Secretary of State, the date of April 25 was recently chosen as the International Day of Parental Alienity. As such, civil society and field actors have drafted a carte blanche in which they denounce the fact that the behaviour of the protective parent (often the mother) in cases of incest, domestic violence or post-separation are often perceived as alienating, i.e. as intended to instrumentalize the child. This is the so-called theory of parental alienation syndrome (SAP). It tends to trivialize and even invisibility violence in the event of domestic violence and treat it as a separation conflict. Specialized actors point out that this theory does not have a scientific basis. However, it is used by psychologists, lawyers, youth welfare services and can be invoked as a ground for transfer of custody or placement by youth and family courts. GREVIO also considered this theory problematic in its report on Belgium and made the recommendation that the professionals concerned should be recognised as having a scientific basis for parental alienation syndrome and to raise public awareness of it. I have just questioned the Minister of Justice and, in his view, the difference must be made between the parental alienation syndrome, which has no scientific support, and the alienation mechanisms, which are real in some cases. He also recalled that training had been organised in 2019 by the Judicial Training Institute and that it would be organised again in 2021, especially for judges. He was unable to give me the content of the training at this stage. He's committed to sending it to me in the coming weeks. Madam Secretary of State, what is your opinion on parental alienation syndrome? How do you plan to follow GREVIO's recommendations on this issue in collaboration with the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u48	Mrs de Laveleye, this is a matter of great interest to me, since when I was a member of Parliament, I was already following this subject with great interest. I was astonished to discover through a parliamentary question that training given by the Judicial Training Institute for magistrates was provided not to deconstruct the parental alienation syndrome but to anchor it even more in our system. This training was entitled "Risk of loss of parent-child relationship, i.e. parental alienation". Since then, the GREVIO report has emerged and challenged this approach, judging Belgium's use of the theory of problematic parental alienation syndrome. The Committee of Experts also questions the Law of 18 July 2006 on Alternative Custody, the preparatory work of which makes explicit reference to parental alienation syndrome. He urged Belgium to make known the lack of a scientific basis for the concept of parental alienation syndrome and to raise awareness among the actors concerned. I have recently met several associations of single-parent families, one of whose central concerns remains the problematic use of this parental alienation syndrome, whether or not it is explicitly named in judgments in order to remove the custody of a child from his or her mother trying to protect him or her. The Government is committed to considering the Istanbul Convention as the guideline for its policy to combat violence. He therefore had to follow GREVIO's recommendations in that regard. Contacts have been made between my firm and the Judicial Training Institute on this problematic training. I await the answer of my colleague Vincent Van Quickenborne, with whom I will not fail to discuss the approach to be given to this training, if it should take place, in order to lead to a deconstruction of this syndrome before the courts and tribunals, as Italy and France have already done for a long time. It is known that this theory has no scientific basis and tends to minimize domestic violence against women and children. This is therefore a serious problem that I wish to tackle. This will also be one aspect of my national plan to combat gender-based violence 2021-2025, which will include several actions in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u49	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I'm not hiding from you that I was a little surprised by Mr. Van Quickenborne that I just received. Since it is quite complete, however, it deserves a little more attention. I hear you're pretty worried about the content of this training. Indeed, training judges to deconstruct this concept or to train them to take it into consideration are two completely different things. So I'm waiting for Mr. Van Quickenborne on the content of this training. But I am reassured that you will also take a step in this direction. This will probably be faster and more effective. I encourage you to continue the work. GREVIO has, in my view, been clear, as has also been the case with you. This is our guideline. We can't get rid of this question. I hope that we will have some interesting results in the coming months, particularly with regard to this training.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u50	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, on 11 May I attended the action at the Begijnhof church for the people without papers. It was the tenth anniversary of the Istanbul Convention and that's how we celebrated. You were there, by the way. For the people without papers, however, it was a sour cake. They had put witloof around the cake, to reflect the bitter taste of the cake, because in Belgium protection against violence in practice does not help women without papers. Belgium supports the Convention with words, but is selective in practice and the protection does not apply to people without papers. The result is that perpetrators can choke to their heart's content on the defenseless victims. This does not protect the most vulnerable in our society. Most people do not dare to complain, because they are at risk of going to prison or being expelled. Sometimes nothing is done with the complaint, like Cristianny. Cristianny Fernandes de Souza died on 9 May from the consequences of years of sexual abuse by her employer. Seven months before she died, she had filed another complaint against him, which was already a courageous act. To date, the unsub is still at large while he's known to the police. The man in question would have raped several women already. Madam Secretary of State, what concrete initiatives will you take to ensure the protection of undocumented women against all forms of gender-related and sexual violence in order to implement the Istanbul Convention? Are specific measures included in the new National Action Plan against gender-based violence for this group? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u51	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, this government has committed itself to implementing the Istanbul Convention as a whole. This Convention also guides the protection of migrant women and undocumented women. Given that this is a particularly vulnerable group, it is essential for me to take specific account of them in any policy area for which I am responsible, particularly in the fight against gender violence. I would also like to express my sincere condolences to the family of Cristianny Fernandes de Souza. Her death is particularly shocking. My cabinet met with the committee of undocumented female migrants from ACV-Brussels, with whom Mrs Fernandes de Souza was in contact. I have taken note of their demands regarding access to justice for undocumented women. The most important instrument I have at my disposal to act in this respect is the national action plan to combat gender-based violence. One of the six priorities of this plan concerns the protection of migrant women. This plan is currently being finalised. Once the plan has been approved by the federal government, I'll be able to give you more details. I also asked the chairman of your committee to plan a thematic meeting after the recess. I would also like to inform you that, in the context of the preparations for the National Action Plan, I pay a great deal of attention to the feedback from civil society. There has been a large-scale consultation of actors specialising in the fight against violence. The committee of undocumented women was also present. I am also in contact with Secretary of State Sammy Mahdi's office on these issues. In addition to the national action plan, I have also ensured that the Care Centre after Sexual Violence (ZSG) is accessible to undocumented women. Finally, whenever I can, I draw my interlocutors' attention to the specific problems of undocumented women during meetings or interventions. This subject is particularly close to my heart. I promise I will do everything in my power to improve their situation during this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u52	The Secretary of State has asked to present the National Action Plan here at the end of September or early October. We can then have a debate on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u53	Madam Secretary, I was present at the action organised by the ACV and the undocumented in your cabinet. I spoke to the people present on that occasion, and one of the women who had gone to the police for Cristianny is now afraid because that man is still out there. Moreover, she told me that at least 20 women had come to her who had experienced similar problems with violence. Many undocumented people have, through this issue, made their story to the woman who testified. Their very explicit demand is that they be protected. When we were at the Beguinage Court, you said you would ask the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. When people file a complaint, they need to be protected, because now they're scared. A crucial point is that they cannot be deported if they make a complaint. I will also put this question to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration on Friday. We want protection so those people don't see what Cristianny's been through.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u54	Madam Secretary of State, last week the results of the practical tests on the labour market in the city of Antwerp were announced. Those practical tests are merely sensitising and therefore there are no sanctions for offenders. However, the results are not minus: 17 % of applicants with a non-Flemish sounding name experienced discrimination. That's almost one in five. That figure is still fluctuating according to origin. 11 per cent of older jobseekers were also discriminated against. That's more than one in ten. Those figures should not be surprised, because they are in line with previous experiments with discrimination tests and academic monitoring. The fact that purely sensitising practical tests would reduce discrimination in the labour market seems to be less and less correct. In the meantime, the practical tests show that discrimination is the main cause of the ethnic divide in the labour market. So they prove their worth as evidence, but now they still need to be used on a large scale. What will you and your colleagues in the government do to make it possible for practical tests on the labour market to be used as a full legal means of proof on a large scale and to never go unpunished in this way? Will there be sanctions in the national action plan against racism?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u55	Following the introduction of practical tests on the labour market in 2018, we have had to conclude that implementation is hampered by restrictive legislation. Together with Mr Dermagne, I am therefore preparing a legislative amendment. We want social inspectors to be better able to do their job, as agreed in the government agreement. We propose several changes, such as the optional use of cumulative conditions for the use of practical tests. One criterion is therefore sufficient for a practical test to be carried out. The practical tests can be used for any form of discrimination, as provided for in the law. Practical tests should thus become a more efficient means of combating discrimination in the labour market. We also want to combat discrimination in the labour market in the national action plan against racism. Concrete proposals are currently being made by the relevant administrations. We are also working with the Länder for this. Practical tests on the labour market are thus also covered. The precise text proposals of the NAPAR are currently being politically validated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u56	Madam Secretary of State, I look forward to this proposal, because we know that self-regulation does not work. If there is no sanctioning against discriminatory employers, the problem will not be solved. In addition, the roll-out must be large-scale, not just local.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u57	Madam Secretary of State, in the run-up to 1 May, Statbel published gender-related figures on part-time work in Belgium on 30 April. Although the figures show that part-time work among men is becoming more popular, women still account for 77% of part-time workers in Belgium. Care for children or dependent persons and other personal or family reasons are still the main reasons for women to start working part-time. Men are going to work part-time because they can't get a full-time job. Another striking finding is that the proportion of women working part-time is increasing with the number of children they have. In men, this increase is not seen. All this indicates a clear link between the unbalanced distribution of reproductive work between men and women and the amount of paid labour that women can do. The more women have to vouch for the household and children, the less paid work they can do and the less leisure time they have. Because of the corona crisis, we see that even more women do reproductive work. This shows that it is more necessary than ever to pursue collective measures to achieve a truly equal distribution of reproductive work between men and women and to guarantee the right to free time for women. To tackle this problem, proper monitoring is needed. Madam Secretary of State, is there an institutional and periodic gender study in our country? If so, by which authorities? Where can we consult that investigation? If no, are you planning to institutionalise a gender-related time-use study? What concrete measures are currently being taken in our country to guarantee the right to free time for women through an equal distribution of reproductive work between men and women?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u58	Thank you for your question, Mrs Vindevoghel. Like you, I note that part-time work is mainly done by women. In 2020, the Equal Opportunities Council published the results of a survey in four sectors employing a large proportion of part-time workers. These are the commercial sector, nursing homes, the cleaning sector, and banks and insurance companies. The purpose of this survey was to examine the reasons for working part-time in a context of significant growth in these forms of employment. A significant proportion of respondents say they want to work more, while the labour supply is structuralally part-time. On the website www.time-use.be all data related to the different time spent in Belgium can be accessed. In the coalition agreement, the government committed itself to reforming parental leave systems so as to allow a more balanced distribution between men and women in the care and care of children. Compared to previous generations, the proportion of care leave taken by men has increased. That this evolution is too slow, I agree with you on that. A more equal distribution of care tasks is also a necessary step towards gender equality. The Institute for Gender Equality is currently coordinating a European project, Parents at Work, dedicated to promoting work-life balance in the workplace. The institute has also developed a toolkit for employers. In early 2021, the Federal Government increased birth leave from 10 days to 15 days. By 2023, that will be 22 days. We're heading in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u59	Madam Secretary of State, we would have preferred the institute to take on the research in order to have a better view of the distribution. You say we're on the right track. Birth leave is indeed a step in the right direction. You know that we would have preferred it to be mandatory. You said that after some time you would consider whether its non-compulsory nature is a problem and you would check whether men are taking leave effectively. We ourselves believe that it should be even more so. If we want to go to equality, we must also ensure that leave is equal to what women get. Men still don't get much in comparison. For the rest, we are in favour of a reduction in working time, because this would mean a better distribution of tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u60	Madam Secretary of State, perhaps you have also followed the terrible news about a 14-year-old girl who was announced yesterday that she left her life after five days earlier being the victim of a group rape whose images were distributed via social media. First of all, I would like to express my sincere condolences to the family and friends. I myself am the mother of two daughters and I must say that the message has arrived hard. I can therefore imagine that many of the fathers and mothers of teenagers are now very concerned. It's just terrible that someone has to go through something like this, anno 2021. Fortunately, the perpetrators are caught, but in the meantime the girl is no longer there and the family is left with a big emptiness. Sexual violence must be better prosecuted and punished. That's really urgent. But that's the only way we won't get there. The problem must also be tackled at the root. That is why I would like to put a few questions to you. Madam Secretary of State, what initiatives will you take with the government and also with the regions to prevent sexual violence? What actions are planned in the new National Action Plan against gender-based violence? In addition to the terrible fact of the gang rape, it is also terrible that the images of it were placed on social media. A member of Child Focus stated yesterday that this has a huge impact on girls who experience it. Such facts can be prevented if we gain more control over social media, by imposing more rules to control such images. Madam Secretary of State, how will you force social media companies to stop the spread of such images? Finally, there are questions about dismissal as well. We can't stick our heads in the sand anymore. Something really needs to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u61	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, the suicide of the girl and what she has been through is a terrible tragedy. As you point out, there are several problematic elements in the dossier, namely sexual violence itself, but also the spread of images on social media. With regard to the fight against sexual violence, I am in the process of reforming the Criminal Code with Minister Van Quickenborne. Reducing the relapse rate is at the heart of this reform. There will be alternative penalties and heavier penalties, and the notion of consent will be introduced. These are all essential improvements. Moreover, as you know, a national action plan on gender-based violence is in preparation. Sexual violence but also the spread of intimate images will be priorities in that plan. I recently questioned civil society about its needs and priorities for the plan. We do this in cooperation with the Länder. They have an important role to play in prevention and awareness raising. Think, for example, of Sensoa's initiative last week to sensitise young people about setting boundaries in sexual acts. This morning, my cabinet had another meeting with the social media platforms. We want and must work with them in battle. They can do more in terms of prevention, victim reception and the removal of such images. This cooperation will be further strengthened in the near future. You will notice that these issues are high on my political agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u62	Madam Secretary of State, I am convinced that this is a very important matter for you and that you want to invest in it. Yesterday, I saw Mrs Liesbet Stevens in De Afsement, who said that people will be able to go to the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men to complain about social media. It is a good thing that this falls within the remit of the Institute. At the same time, however, she also called on the government to ensure that the institute has enough resources and people to do so. I would like to give this to you. In addition to the good will to deal with things, it is very important that there are enough resources so that the people who are doing this can do their job. I would like to comment on the press in the last two days. I noticed that telephone number 1712, for example, is still far too little. I find it strange that only the telephone number of the Suicide Line was mentioned each time, which is of course also good, while the telephone number where women can end up dealing with violence was mentioned once in the last two days. However, this is very important in terms of prevention. We also need to invest in education in order to work preventively. I heard hallucinatory figures from Mrs Stevens last night: 100 rapes are reported only 10 times and there are 4 gang rapes. That amounts to 200 gang rapes a year. I am not good at this and I hope that we will tackle these problems seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u63	This is a problem that the pandemic has kept under the radar. We know, especially from developing countries, that the number of cases of genital mutilation and child marriages has increased. It seems to me that the figures in Belgium are also at risk of rising. The latest report was published in 2018 and you are updating the figures on genital mutilation, for women who have undergone it and women who are at risk. That's a good initiative. I myself have been working on it for some time, especially in the area of legislation, which was also adopted last legislative term. The right to speak was extended not only to caregivers, but also to adult victims, who are sometimes pressured to undergo re-infibulation during childbirth, for example. That wasn't registered in the file. That way, we didn't see what was actually happening in the hospitals. The figures you will get will be extrapolations. These will not be effective figures. We really need to know where the prevalence is highest in Flanders and Wallonia. In this way we can act effectively, with actions from the hospitals, among others about sensitisation of the entire family. Not only women must be sensitized, but especially the family and the partner. In the previous legislature, your predecessors played a role in relation to the right to speak and the code of conduct, including for the Order of Doctors. What action do you take on this dossier, especially for the caregivers? How do you contribute to the implementation of the relevant legislation and also to guidelines for hospital registration?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u64	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, first of all I would like to thank you for your years of commitment to this terrible practice. I discussed with the GAMS the issue of mandatory registration and right to speak on female genital mutilation (FGV) and the need for additional sensitisation. I will discuss the proposals for concrete actions in this area in the context of the draft new plan on gender-based violence with my colleague from Health. Improving statistics, including in the context of FGM, has already been included as a concrete action point in the new Action Plan. I am also very soon planning a sensitisation of and a new guide for care providers, developed by the IGVM in collaboration with the Order of Doctors. Finally, in cooperation with Minister Vandenbroucke, I have also commissioned a new study on the problem of FGM in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u65	Madam Secretary of State, I am, of course, looking forward to the voluminous plan on gender-based violence, which will come in the autumn and which will include many new actions, including genital mutilation. A manual is indeed important. The problem with care providers is often that they don't know the difference between the different types of genital mutilation. I know that the GAMS do provide training, but they also demand funding. I have noticed that because of a lack of funding in several hospitals they cannot provide the training. Yet they are extremely important to recognize the phenomenon and to ensure that it does not happen again in the future. I look forward to your actions. I hope that a registration can be made in the future, because I note that this is not a reality today. I will continue to question you and your colleague, Mr Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u66	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, my question is to take stock of the implementation of the resolution we unanimously voted on 11 February. I know that this resolution is of particular interest to you and you were involved in it when you were a Member of Parliament. Today, you have been given the tools as Secretary of State to advance this objective, which is at the heart of the resolution, of having a legislative framework protecting the physical integrity of intersex minors and guaranteeing, unless necessary medically, the prohibition of any decision to modify the sexual characteristics of a minor without the informed consent of the minor. Madam Secretary of State, the stakes are important. As I said at the time, this is just a first step. The sooner we take the first step, the faster we move forward. As you said yourself, this resolution will enable you to achieve the long-awaited legislative progress and make Belgium the fourth European country, after Malta, Portugal and Albania, to ban these unacceptable practices. Today, three months later, what is the status of these advances? Have there been any consultations with the field associations – in particular, but also with your government colleagues – in this context? Do you already have a timetable for the implementation of this resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u67	Mr Rigot, thank you for this very important issue which, as you said, has been of concern to me for a long time. This resolution, which had been drafted by the associations of persons concerned and the Equality Law Clinic, is a valuable text. Today it is a matter of paying tribute to these authors by fully incorporating their claims into our legislation and finally ending these unacceptable practices. Very concretely, my priority is the development of a legal framework that is most in line with respect for the principle of self-determination under European and international law, as well as with the demands of the associations of persons concerned with whom I am – as you will know – in permanent dialogue. At the moment, I am working with my administration to put forward legislative proposals as quickly as possible and I will also work with my colleagues Van Quickenborne and Vandenbroucke in these matters to protect the rights of intersex people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u68	Madam Secretary of State, I have no doubt about your motivation. You demonstrated it when you were a Member of Parliament and you demonstrate it in all the matters you are investing in today. The construction sites are huge. Throughout this committee, you have raised so many points of attention that our society is fairer, more egalitarian, more respectful of what each and every one is. But in this case, I dare hope to have a timing at some point. Indeed, I hear your answer well and I have no doubt that you are going to move forward, but I have no more timing and certainty about any progress in the short or medium term. I will therefore allow myself to return to you in the coming months. I will give you the time of summer, and I may come back to you in September to prepare a joint assessment, if I may, unless you do so on your own initiative by then.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u69	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, according to the press, you have appointed Mrs Haouach to the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men as Commissioner of the Government. On social media, Ms. Haouach appears on her profile photos with a very clear display of her religious preferences. Of course, it is his strictest right. She must be respected in her personal choice, but could you confirm that Ms. Haouach will not ostensibly display her religious preferences in her role as Commissioner of the Government? If that were to be the case, this would naturally pose a rather fundamental problem. You know, as I do, the regulatory provisions involving the principle of neutrality linked to any function exercised and linked to the executive branch. The position of Commissioner of the Government is one of them. The first mission of a government commissioner is to represent the government, the whole government. It is obviously extremely different from a political function, for example the appointment of representatives of political parties to the board of directors of a public enterprise. Here, it is the entire government that is represented. When I say the whole government, it naturally leads me to ask another question. You're not alone in this government. You have partners who do not necessarily have the same options or values as you. Could you confirm that what De Standaard says today is true in relation to the fact that you have consulted with Secretary of State De Bleeker on this matter? More generally, could you confirm that, for this appointment, you consulted with all of your partners in the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u70	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, you appointed a woman head-on as government commissioner at the Institute for Equality between Women and Men (IGVM). That institute should guard gender equality, while the headscarf represents the inequality between men and women. It's not just a piece of fabric, there's a misogynistic philosophy behind it. A woman must cover herself against lustful eyes of men. Your decision is also contrary to the neutrality of the State. Madam Secretary of State, can you assure me that Mrs Haouach will adopt a neutral attitude in the performance of her duties as Government Commissioner and her religious preferences will not show? What do you think that promoting the headscarf in an institute like the IGVM results in young girls and women being forced to wear headscarfs? What is your position on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u71	Mrs Safai, Mr Ducrame, first of all, I would like to say that I am surprised by your questions. To hear you, a person wearing a scarf is not able to perform his or her duties properly or in a neutral manner. That's not my conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u72	That's not what we said!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u73	On the other hand, I would point out that a government commissioner is not an official of the state. It shall carry out missions to inform and monitor the legality and general interest within an organisation, in this case the IEFH. Ms. Haouach has all the necessary skills to carry out this mission. She graduated with great distinction from the Solvay Business School, and demonstrated great management skills and successful professional experience, including one of several years, in a large, internationally recognized company. I have therefore appointed Mrs Haouach for her gender competences. Her hijab didn't stop her from leading this wonderful career. That Mrs Haouach is deprived of this opportunity because of her scarf and that the IEFH cannot take advantage of her expertise seems aberrant to me. I would mention that this position is part of the general legal framework, since the Commissioner of the Government is not subject to the specific rules of state neutrality. Failure to select it because it displays its religious beliefs would therefore constitute discrimination within the meaning of the 2007 Act. This is my prerogative, as is the prerogative of all cabinets appointing a commissioner without the need for consultation. In my opinion, Mrs. Haouach is the right person in the right place. Mrs. Haouach is the right person for me in the right place. And I look forward to working with her in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u74	Madam Secretary of State, I do not accept that my remarks should be caricatured. I spoke of the principle of neutrality. I didn't name the scarf, or that lady in particular. I think it's pretty unworthy of you to suggest it. Here's a first element. Second element. I register falsely with what you just said about the Commissioner of the Government. He represents the government. It must therefore meet the requirements of State neutrality. So I am shocked by your comments, like many Liberal Members of Parliament who are part of this Vivaldi majority, who naturally support the government's policies. In a majority as diverse as ours, different values coexist. The whole thing is that everyone feels respected in his own. My values of defence of the neutrality of the State, of separation between the Church and the State, of defence of a common foundation of values that encourage living together rather than the other way round, as communalism does – dividing, separating, opposing – these values must be respected. This Liberal fight and my values, I, a member of the majority, with this appointment made on behalf of the government, I find that you despise them, that you trample on them, that you make them litter, and I do not accept it! All the more so, as I said, that you neglect the fundamental principles that are linked to the neutrality of the State. This function thus carried out is incompatible with the principle of State neutrality. As you persist in what I consider to be an error in respect of regulatory aspects, but also an error in respect of certain partners of the majority – listen carefully to what I say to you (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u75	I'm asking you to conclude, Mr. Ducrame.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u76	Since you intend to break some of the trust and indirectly some of the solidarity that unites us in this majority, know well, Madam Secretary of State, that I feel completely dislodged, disenfranchised from responsibility for your projects and policies! You crossed the red line. You despise the values of a number of parties that make up this majority. From now on, I'm going to do what you do. You no longer have my support for your projects. It will be à la carte, as you managed this problem by ignoring the values of a number of components of the majority!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u77	Madam Secretary of State, I was shocked when I found that you appointed someone wearing a headscarf as government commissioner at the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. This person must be able to guarantee the equality of women and men when she does not even believe in this equality. Listen carefully to me as an expert in experience: the philosophy behind a headscarf absolutely does not recognise freedom, self-determination or equality for women. The fact that we have headscarves in our society is a fact, but it is unacceptable and even cynical that we should promote them into a function that guarantees equality between women and men. This decision is also contrary to the neutrality of the State and is motivated by electoral considerations. You seem to have no sense of the number of children, young girls and women forced to wear headscarfs. I would advise you to visit our schools and listen to the poignant stories about the headscarf and freedom of choice. It is incredible that these victims of Islamism are once again abandoned here with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u78	Mrs. Safai, may I ask you to conclude? You will read a text for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u79	They will then still be abandoned by the Secretary of State for Gender Equality and Equality, by the wrong signal you give. The reaction of your cabinet is regrettable and again shows that you are not in the right place when it comes to promoting equality between women and men and women's rights in Islam.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic502x.u80	Question No 55018469C by Mrs Sophie Rohonyi is postponed.
