ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Boukili's 55019529C was converted into a written question. Mr Segers is prepared to put Mrs Dillen before us, as she will have to go to another committee meeting shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u2	Mr Minister, there is a preliminary draft amending Article 186 of the Court's Rules of Procedure on the division of cases. The possible amendment of the law would allow the Presidents of the courts to determine which local courts can continue to exist. There is a fear that this will lead to the abolition of national, remote departments of courts. The survival of these remote courts appears to be under pressure. I understand that this preliminary draft opinion has been submitted to the Supreme Court of Justice, which is clearly not in favour of abolishing the ban on the abolition of existing seats. The Supreme Court of Justice calls for the number of seats to be maintained, which does not necessarily mean that all services such as the reception, the Registry and so on must be offered everywhere. The HRJ wishes to maintain a legally guaranteed basic service in each section of the courts and does not support the deletion of the exhaustive list of categories of cases for which one or more departments are exclusively competent. I understand that all the Flemish Balies also support the advice of the HRJ. I haven't found any information about the Walloon counters. Minister, this preliminary draft law also gives rise to a great deal of concern in the field. For example, there is a fear that the survival of the courts of Veurne and Ypres may become uncertain. However, the importance of proximity to justice is particularly important for the people of the right. I hope you agree with me on that, Minister. The removal of justice from the vicinity of those seeking justice is not a good signal for trust in justice, because proximity stands for trust and familiarity. If courthouses and local hearings disappear or almost disappear, trust in Justice will in any case decrease again. There is also a fear that legal aid will disappear and that many lawyers will follow the courts. Mr Minister, could you explain this more clearly? Is there a risk that with this preliminary draft law the less central courts will disappear? Which courts are being specifically considered? The opinion of the Supreme Court of Justice, fully supported by all the Flemish Balies, is clear. Will you take this into account and give a positive response to the above-mentioned opinions? Are you prepared to drop the idea of a possible abolition of a division by means of the divisional rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u3	Madam President, Mrs Dillen, Article 186 of the Court's Code provides that the President of the Court may propose a divisional regulation. He/she should seek advice from the chief clerk, the local prosecutor and the counter. Afterwards, such a division of affairs should be ratified by an KB, consulted in the Council of Ministers. In a case-sharing regulation, the chairman may centralise the treatment of certain matters in one or more departments. At present, there are only limited possibilities for drawing up such a case-sharing regulation. For example, it can only be drawn up for a list of subjects, not of procedures, the list for which one can centralize is exhaustively listed and there is a ban on the abolition of seats. We do indeed have a preliminary draft law which proposes that the Presidents of the Courts be given more opportunities to move to more efficient operation by means of case-sharing regulations. There are several Presidents of the Courts who have addressed us and indicated that with better division of affairs we could give more specializations, faster rulings, a better reception, in short, a better service. There are ideas for further rationalisation of company courts. There are also concrete plans in Hainaut and Limburg to place the penal chain in one department. This would make it possible to work more efficiently, to organise the criminal chain in the vicinity of the prison and the judicial police. In Limburg, for example, the bourgeois chain could be grouped in the other seat. I understand the concern of the proximity of the courts. We must indeed ensure that every citizen has easy access to justice. But that access doesn't just have to be viewed in physical mileage. A good reception, a good quality treatment by a specialized magistrate, a quick treatment and judgment are also good access to the court. In reply to your second question, I can tell you that the opinion of the Supreme Court of Justice is not unambiguous. In principle, the Supreme Court does not object to an adaptation of that article to the needs of the organisation of justice, provided that it also takes into account the need of the judge in matters of proximity and access to justice. They consider that the abolition of the ban on the abolition of certain seats, together with the abolition of the restrictive lists of categories of cases for which one or more sections may be exclusively authorized, is a step too far. We are currently analysing the advice of the Supreme Court of Justice, as well as the advice of the desks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u4	Minister, it is particularly important, especially in civil, employment and enterprise matters, that physical distance is not too great. Especially in civil and employment matters, people, the citizen and thus the subject of the law, should be given the opportunity to get to court by means of public transport. I refer, for example, to a problem in Antwerp, at the Berchem peace court. That used to be very central, but moved to Kontich. There it is simply not possible to get there by public transport, while many residents of Berchem, where many disadvantaged people live, do not have a car. It is particularly difficult for them to hit Kontich, more than 20 kilometers away. Hopefully you will take this into account and also the opinions of the Supreme Court of Justice. I hope you will come to this committee in the autumn with this preliminary draft law. On the website of the front desk of West Flanders, following a webinar you held there, it was stated that you would withdraw this preliminary draft law. I guess that's not the point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u5	Mrs Gilson has to go to another committee. Her question No. 55019532C may be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u6	Dear colleague, this is a very important subject on which I have already spoken many times, and recently again, on 30 June, in this same committee in response to questions from colleagues Segers and Rohonyi. In the meantime, we are making every effort to develop a balanced legal framework. With regard to your first question, as I have already mentioned, various associations working with victims of trafficking have been consulted, such as the specialized centres for the reception and care of victims of trafficking in human beings. The sex workers' union was also consulted. The aim of the project is to remove prostitution from the grey area in which it is confined. The persons who carry out this activity are not criminals. A moral judgment on these sexual activities as long as they take place between consenting adults is now outdated. On the other hand, it is important to create a framework within which these activities can be carried out in a safer and more transparent manner. Automatically linking prostitution and trafficking in human beings is a shortcut that I cannot subscribe to. The situations encountered in the prostitution sector are very diverse and we cannot categorize things so simplisticly. On the other hand, it is clear that trafficking in human beings for sexual purposes must be combated. We have tried to strike the right balance in the bill between the necessary fight against trafficking in human beings and an opening up to the creation of a statute governing the practice of prostitution. Pimping also does not completely disappear from the bill. Contrary to what you indicate, the assumption of abnormal profit is not the only one to be retained in the latest versions of the project. As far as your second question is concerned, under the Criminal Policy Directive COL/01 of 2015, each judicial district must have at least one magistrate specializing in human trafficking at the level of the public prosecutor's office and the labour auditorate. The multidisciplinary circular of 23 December 2016 organises the procedure for the guidance and protection of victims. Finally, the Department of Justice funds the three reception centres, Payoke, PAG-ASA and Sürya, for victims of trafficking, as regards their role in the administrative and judicial aspects of victim monitoring. Let me turn to your third question. Trafficking and trafficking in human beings is a priority for this Government. A new action plan against trafficking in human beings has just entered into force. Training for magistrates and front-line police officers has already been conducted. For specialized investigations, we call on our best magistrates, who know the subject very well. We are also investing additional resources in the fight against criminal networks responsible for trafficking and trafficking in human beings. During the night of 23-24 June, a large-scale police operation was carried out in collaboration with the Foreign Office and the judicial authorities against small boats, i.e. small boats used as a means to smuggle transmigrants into the United Kingdom. We will carry out further such actions against trafficking and trafficking in human beings in the future, and we will prosecute and punish those responsible for criminal networks. Here's my answer to your fourth question. In the area of sexual violence in general and trafficking in human beings in particular, we collaborate with various organizations, including the Institute for Gender Equality. The Institute was also asked about the draft law on sexual violence. More specifically, as far as adults are concerned, we ask the Institute to remove from the Internet as soon as possible sexual images whose dissemination is non-consensual. The Institute and Child Focus have the confidence of many types of media that collaborate directly with Google, Facebook, Tik Tok and many others. We are also exploring the possibility of deploying a mobile anti-harassment warning device with the Institute. Of course, we are also working with Myria to combat human trafficking. Myria, as the national rapporteur on trafficking and member of the Interdepartmental Coordination Unit for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, was consulted, as was, for example, the College of Public Prosecutors. The debate is ongoing within the government. We work with the services of Secretary of State Sarah Schlitz, as well as the other coalition parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u7	Minister, thank you and I am sorry that the subject is placed on the table twice. It's a waste of time for everyone. I know that your work is attentive and diligent, especially with your government colleagues. As a result of the various publications in the press, as Members of Parliament, various associations have called on us, telling us - perhaps this is the regret that I share with you - that as experts on the ground they were not consulted during the review process of Rule 380. That's probably the reason why they were protesting this noon again in front of your firm to express their fears. If there had been space to do so, they would have been reassured of the work you are currently doing in order to arrive at an effective solution. I agree with you that we must not align ourselves with a moral vision of prostitution, but, on the other hand, the field experts working on trafficking and following what is happening in other countries that have regulated procurement in some way, show that it creates air calls for trafficking in human beings. Therefore, these persons must be heard. Their expertise must be taken into account to ensure that the beacons you are preparing for the future Penal Code ensure that there will be no bounty effect. We follow Australia, for example. It is publicly traded companies that manage so-called "legalized" prostitution. Anyone interested in human rights from close or far can only be questioned by this and remain very attentive. We therefore look forward to the text which, I suppose, is to be released in the coming days from the second reading of the Government. I hope that we can give ourselves time to organise genuine hearings in Parliament and to hear from all the stakeholders working on these issues in order to grow together and to have the most balanced view possible of the project that you are preparing for us, which, I am sure, will respond to our fears in a certain way. However, space must be given to these people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u8	Minister, I have already asked you several questions about the situation of the Maghreban unaccompanied minors living as street children in and around Brussels and other cities. I also asked those questions to your predecessor, Mr Geens. I also argued in January last year for a guardian pool for street children. I understand that, in the meantime, things are moving and that, among other things, a guardian pool for street children is being set up. I would like to thank you and your services for that, because this is an important step. I hope that the questions I have asked have also had a certain impact for the better. In December 2020, France and Morocco concluded an agreement on the return of unaccompanied minors. According to your French colleague, the aim is to enable the French youth magistrates to have the essential elements to take the measures best suited to the interests of these children, including return. According to your Moroccan colleague, the agreement would create the legal framework within which the various entities, namely judges, prosecutors and social workers, intervene in the care of these unaccompanied minors. According to a press agency, this would mean that French judges could order the return on the basis of placement decisions by Moroccan magistrates in the interest of minors in France. Questions have already been put to Secretary of State Mahdi in the Committee on the Interior. A month ago, Morocco informed the Belgian authorities that it wished to resolve definitively the issue of unaccompanied minors. Morocco expressly underlined that it would accept their return. It referred in particular to agreements with France and Spain, which have already led to the return of a few dozen minors. I would like to make it clear that the return of these young people to Vooruit can, of course, be a lasting solution. So I would like to know how you dealt with this outstretched hand of the Moroccan authorities. Is that gonna happen? If so, how? Will you also enable Belgian youth magistrates, as is happening in France, to have the essential elements to take the most appropriate measures, including return? How will you do that? How will you ensure that there are sufficient guarantees for the safety, care and protection of young people? Are there parents, other family members, youth assistance facilities where these young people can go? Is there any willingness to take on that role? Finally, are there other similar agreements on unaccompanied minors? I had heard that there would be such an agreement with Congo. With which countries? How do they work? To what extent can they inspire?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u9	Mr Segers, as regards your first and second questions, I am convinced that the voluntary return to the country of origin should be further examined as a sustainable solution and that we should strengthen cooperation with the authorities of the countries of origin. Together with my fellow Secretary of State, we are considering a proposal for a protocol agreement on the voluntary return of Moroccan unaccompanied minors. The Länder must also be consulted. We have already contacted the Moroccan liaison magistrate to inform her that we are prepared to work on the return of these unaccompanied minors in our search for a sustainable solution. The purpose of this Protocol is to facilitate cooperation between the Belgian and Moroccan central authorities and between the Belgian and Moroccan justice authorities in the context of the application of the 1996 Hague Convention. The agreement concluded by the French authorities with the Moroccan authorities can serve as a source of inspiration in the preparation of the cooperation protocol. I would, of course, also like to involve the judicial authorities in their preparation. As far as your third question is concerned, the return of unaccompanied minors to the family or an institution in the country of origin can only be considered if there are a number of guarantees that have been verified in advance. For example, parents must be identified and located in the country of origin of the child. They must also have given their consent to the child's return. It is also essential to ensure that the minor is given proper support and care on his return. This agreement should facilitate the identification of unaccompanied minors and the detection of family members in cooperation with the Moroccan authorities and our respective administrations. The exchange of information should also contribute to the monitoring of reception and care conditions. As far as your fourth question is concerned, we do not know any similar agreement to facilitate the voluntary return of such minors to a country of origin. However, I am convinced that it is useful and necessary to extend such agreements further to other countries and to think further in this direction. In any case, thank you for the suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which is very interesting. I am glad that you will examine this further, so that the protocol agreement is already under consideration. Contact has also been made with the liaison magistraat. It will all be a bit new, as there are no similar similarities. I am also pleased that you say that you want to consider the right guarantees, such as the identification of the parent or family member, the provision of proper care and support and the further detection of family members. I wish you every success in all of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u11	Madam President, Minister, once again this is an issue on which I have already raised a number of previous questions, in particular on the Essex drama. On 3 February 2021, you replied to my questions about the fact that you had asked the Federal Prosecutor and the Director-General of the Federal Judicial Police personally and explicitly to examine what had happened internally. You asked yourself a number of questions about articles in the press, then in De Standaard of 29 and 30 January 2021, especially when you compared them with what had been stated earlier in the committee. It is then a question of answering my previous parliamentary questions. Not all information has indeed been equally correct in the past. I am glad that we are trying to make that right. You asked yourself, among other things, the following. Who did what or didn't just do it? What information was available at what time? You rightly expressed your confidence in the investigation of the Federal Attorney General and the Director General. You stated that they took the whole file seriously and would do everything in their power to get full clarity in the complex dossier. So I'm very curious now. I read an article in Het Laatste Nieuws today about the state of the investigation. I am therefore curious to see what results have been obtained from the internal investigation so far. Can you give a new chronological overview of the facts with the new findings and conclusions? How do you explain that earlier communication might have been different? What lessons have been drawn or will be drawn? What will be adjusted? I do not want to ask again all the questions I have already asked in committee. After all, there were a lot of them. I assume, however, that you have had them looked at. You also replied in committee that you would discuss and evaluate the issue at Eurojust level in order to examine the international aspect and police-judicial cooperation of closer cooperation, including and especially in the context of the delivery of persons. What is the state of play at that level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u12	Madam President, Mr Segers, you did indeed question me very extensively at the time and I looked at my answers again. I was as complete as I could be back then. What can I add to that today? Firstly, the whole process of the police response of the various entities of the federal judicial police in Belgium, from the moment they were notified by the Dutch police that the minors entered the Belgian territory until the moment they lost track in our country, was thoroughly analysed by the Director-General of the Federal Judicial Police and that in consultation with the Federal Public Prosecutor and the Public Prosecutor General of Brussels. As you know, the procedure followed and the assignments given were also examined and evaluated at the level of the Public Prosecutor. In particular, these evaluations showed that international agreements on cross-border observation, delivery and delivery should be crystal clear and clear. Secondly, as regards international cooperation, I can tell you that the federal prosecutor is part of the Focus Group for Prosecutors on Migrant Smuggling, established within Eurojust. At the last meeting on 19 April the issue of cross-border observations was raised. This will be discussed further at the next meeting of the focus group. We remember from our previous question-and-answer session that the problem of cross-border observation and delivery of persons is not an obvious problem, but a problem where clear international agreements are needed. This was discussed within Eurojust and our federal judicial police will also discuss this issue with Dutch colleagues. Finally, as regards the trial of the alleged responsible persons, the judicial investigation of the investigating judge and the federal prosecutor into those responsible for the drama in Essex was completed, but recently another suspect was arrested, which currently puts five suspects in custody in our country and two in the United Kingdom who are still to be extradited to our country. So much for a final state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for the overview. I will address you with a similar question when the investigation is complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u14	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, as regards your first question, I can confirm that there are problems in a number of valuation firms which lead to late payment, mainly in the valuation offices of Brussels Dutch and Eupen and to a lesser extent in Namur and Liège. As regards your second question, I would like to inform you that on 1 July 2021, for the year 2021, 106,071 cost statements were submitted to the 13 valuation firms that know our country. A third of these cost states were paid within 30 days, but that is, of course, too little, and of course we want to improve these figures in the near future. We see that the delay varies according to the valuation firm. There are valuation firms that indicate that there is no or almost no backlog. This is the case for the valuation offices of West Flanders, Limburg, Luxembourg, Leuven, French-speaking Brussels and Walloon Brabant. The Eupen valuation firm states that the processing of cost statements currently requires an average of two and a half months. In Dutch-speaking Brussels, the situation is most serious: for interpreters there is a delay of about six months, for translators a delay of two months. As far as your third question is concerned, we cannot give specific figures on the translators' interpreters. That too is a working point of the FPS Justice, in particular the automatic delivery of exact data. A question by the central office for the court fees at the 13 valuation firms gives the following result. Eupen reports that 350 cost states are currently untreated, of which about one third are translators and interpreters. In addition, some 60 cost states would not have been completed, as improvements are still awaited. The valuation office of Brussels in English speaks of 420 open cost statements of interpreters and 350 translators. As far as your fourth question is concerned, the delay in payment relates, as I said, to a number of valuation firms, not to all agencies. In most offices there is no lag or the lag is rather limited. In our view, the causes that have given rise to or led to the delay are the following. Firstly, at the start-up of the agencies on 1 January 2020, a large number of agencies were overwhelmed with cost statements dating from before 2020 that had remained on the Registry massively. Of course, these cost states also had to be processed, which means that some valuation firms were already lagging behind from day one. This delay would be virtually complete but has helped to ensure that the start has not gone smoothly. A second reason is a shortage of staff. Many valuation firms do not yet have the staff originally foreseen. The regulations provide that a valuation firm is composed of a Registrar assisted by a single financial expert and a number of assistants, depending on the number of inhabitants of the district. For Eupen this would amount to one assistant and for the Dutch-speaking valuation office of Brussels on six assistants. There is only one employee present at the Eupen Evaluation Office, who also works part-time, as she also has to carry out other tasks as a clerk. There is currently no expert in Brussels. The entire team consists of six employees, of which two people work four fifths and one person joined last week. A third reason. Several valuation firms indicate that a great deal of time has to be devoted to communicating with translators and interpreters, as it is often found that the cost statements were not submitted correctly, resulting again in a loss of time. The new regulation foresees that the current procedure is digital, but it seems that quite a lot of cost statements are still being received on paper. Scanning these cost statements and the accompanying documents therefore takes a lot of time. Then I'll come to your fifth question. Of course, I am aware that late payment by a number of agencies is detrimental to the proper functioning of justice. Measures are therefore necessary and I would like to mention a few specific points. Over the past few weeks, a number of staff at the central office have processed and passed on a large mass of cost statements from the valuation offices of Dutch-speaking Brussels and Eupen to the competent liquidation offices, with a view to their payment. In Eupen, only one full-time employee was originally foreseen. At the initiative of my policy cell, the FPS Justice for Eupen obtained an agreement with the Finance Inspector to recruit a second full-time employee. Nationally there are twelve vacant places for which the procedures run. A second FTE for Eupen is provided. Secondly, there are also structural measures. In addition, we also need to take a good look at why the lead times in certain agencies are so high. This is often due to incorrect submission of the cost statements, which increases the payment period. My policy cell has therefore commissioned the Central Court Office to use so-called tutorials, which explains how to correctly and smoothly fill in a statement of costs. We also have an eye for the staff of the valuation agencies. For example, there is currently a survey of the employees of the valuation firms. This runs until 15 July, after which we will of course do something with the results. In addition to this survey, an in-depth audit of the operation of the valuation will also be launched by the DG Legal Organisation. The new Director of the Judicial Organisation, who started in early May, knows that such delays are unacceptable to me. We also expect a lot from the digital transformation. We also focus on digital initiatives to simplify the process of submission, signature and control of cost states. All this must ensure that accurate monitoring of payment periods is possible. In the long term, submission of cost statements on paper should be a thing of the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u15	Minister, the problem is not new. The late payments of people providing services to Justice is a recurring problem. Justice does not seem to be a good employer. I would also point out that this issue was also discussed at European level. I would also like to give you the European Commissioner Breton's answer to a question on the application of Directive 2011/7/EU in relation to late payment for services commissioned by judicial authorities, tabled by my colleague, MEP Bourgeois. It is clear from the European Commissioner's reply that the provision of services of sworn translators, interpreters and legal experts commissioned by the judicial authorities, which are provided by companies to public authorities for payment, is also commercial transactions. The providers of these services are often small and medium-sized enterprises. They don't just do that job to make a profit. Their survival often depends on the timely payment by the Justice Department. Public authorities therefore have a particular responsibility to create a legal and commercial environment that promotes timely payments. It is a pity, therefore, that the Justice Department is putting businesses in trouble because of late payments from the government. You are again announcing some punctual measures, such as the recruitment of staff and structural measures, such as digitisation, but I hope that steps can finally be taken, because the problem of late payments has existed for many years, since my entry into Parliament. Hopefully, steps will be taken now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u16	Minister, I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u17	Firstly, I am, of course, aware of the long waiting times. I have also made specific reference to it in the presentation of the additional expenditure we will make for Justice. Secondly, I will provide you with the table on the average lead time of the files in writing. Last year the average lead time was 29.6 months, and this year, so far, 28.6 months. Why is the payout so problematic? The granting of financial aid to victims of intentional acts of violence is entrusted to an administrative court, which gives its opinion both on the merits of the request and on the amounts to be granted in full independence. The committee shall take its decision at the end of a contradictory debate. The secretariat of the committee takes up the file and often has to make a series of inquiries, such as requesting a copy of a judgment or a judgment or ordering a medical examination, in order to determine the proper conduct of the damage. Where the file is complete, a report shall be drawn up and served on the parties. The parties will be given the opportunity to comment in writing in order to make their views known. They may also ask to be heard by the committee at the hearing. This guarantees respect for the rights of the victims, but it takes time. Over the past decades, a number of the secretariat's missing officials have been replaced with much delay. Together with long absences for health reasons of number of employees, this has led to a delay. How will we solve the problem in the short, medium and long term? Thanks to the extra budget for Justice, three additional Dutch-speaking staff will be recruited for the secretariat of the committee. These are two level A and one level C employees. The employee of level A and that of level C will form the secretariat of an additional Dutch-speaking chamber. The second level A employee will provide legal support for the various commissions of the committee, such as the dossiers of the Terrorist Division, the collection, subrogation and digitisation. This official will also be able to provide ad hoc support for the handling of victims' files. The P&O staff of the FPS Justice Department is currently looking for the appropriate profiles to fill in these places. After their recruitment, the new staff will obviously have to deal with the matter. Furthermore, the MACH programme will be adapted to the needs of the Financial Aid Commission to Victims of Intentional Violence. This is currently being examined. The programme offers a number of perspectives for a modern and more efficient dossier handling. We'll see if and how we can modify MACH so it can be used by the victim committee. Finally, the measures will not be able to bear fruit until next year at the earliest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You are obviously aware of the problems: you have reduced the waiting period from 29.6 to 28.6 months, but it remains hugely long. You are talking about the counter-proceedings and the fact that a verdict must be sought. That's what action and reaction comes from. You do list short-, medium- and long-term measures, but the process does not need to be repeated. Those involved have been waiting for a very long time. There's a verdict, sometimes even a judgment. Then it goes to the financial aid committee for the payout. Then the question is simple, namely whether there is a possible payout or not. The shoe wrings when victims are paid. What does not go into my mind is that it will take another 28.6 months on average. That's an average, which means that some deadlines are really out of control. You need to look into that problem. How can that be solved? You will explain that three employees will be employed and that the programme will be modified, but I think that we need to look more closely at the fact that the handling process can be speeded up. I'm sure you can.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u19	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55019659C, No. 55019660C, No. 55019708C and No. 55019711C by Mrs Melissa Depraetere are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u20	Minister, the Collectif contre l'Islamophobia en Belgique (CCIB) pursues the objective of combating all attempts to stigmatise a religious current or people according to their conviction. This objective in itself deserves to be supported. It seems to me that the CCIB has recently exceeded what its natural prerogatives would be. He called a federal parliamentarian, in this case a member of my political party, Mr Dallemagne, a conspiracyist, Islamophobic, inciting hatred. The Collective believed that it had exceeded the limits of freedom of expression and even demanded that it be punished for saying that the headscarf of Muslim women could be "also a radical political demand, which does not want our model of society, does not want our values and fight them". There were some polemics about the comments following the interpretation that could have been made by one or the other. Some considered that the word "also" meant that the wearing of the veil automatically led to a hostile attitude, of combat in relation to our values. Others, as the deputy himself said a few days later in the newspaper, stressed that "also" should be understood as "it may happen, in some cases". Irrespective of the substantive debate, a debate that is democratically desirable in a rule of law like ours, we have here an elected democrat who makes statements that are part of the debate and with which one can agree or not – it is also the freedom of everyone – and who finds himself imbued by a particularly intriguing attack not to say shocking since I have rarely seen a collective ask that one limit the ability to express one's elected nation and that one sanction it. You know, Minister, that the CCIB counterpart in France, the CCIF, was recently banned by the French authorities for incitement to hatred. Today, we are in Belgium with a CCIB that receives public funding that allows it to carry out a whole series of actions that I dare imagine are noble and in line with their objective to stop any risk of Islamophobia. It would seem, however, that the latter are also used to openly invite an elected person to limit his freedom of expression for statements which may not lead to support, but which in itself, in their contribution to the democratic debate, have nothing defamatory or scandalous if they are actually formulated, as has been done by the parliamentarian who himself has been able to repeat his thinking by avoiding any desire to amalgamate. I think it is not only a way of defaming a member of the House by pretending that he is a plottist or Islamophobic or even to provoke a climate of hatred towards him that seems not at all acceptable to me. My point would have been the same, Mr Minister, if it had been a parliamentarian from another democratic political group because I do not think that we are living in a state of law that can legitimately incentivise that an opinion expressed, even if it diverges from one another's opinion, automatically requires sanctioning or limiting the capacity to express itself, a fortiori when one is an elected member of the Nation. Minister, what is your attitude in this regard? Are you considering any suite? How do you look at the CCIB in the light of its French counterpart?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall only comment on the statements made by the CCIB. Indeed, the funding of this organization is a competence of my colleague, the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. Freedom of expression is a fundamental principle for me and for our country. Exceptions to this principle are defined in our criminal legislation such as anti-racism and discrimination laws. It is the judiciary, together with the Public Prosecutor's Office as the prosecution authority and the seat of the judicial authority, which oversees this. It is therefore not for the ICCB to judge whether, in this case, there has been incitement to hatred and violence. Only a judge can judge. I would also like to remind you of this with regard to the CCIB. It is within the framework of the same freedom of expression and of freedom of association and assembly that in our country it is not possible to ban organisations. This issue has been debated for a long time in this House. We have also had an opportunity to exchange views on the subject in the Committee on Justice, in particular on the CCIB. If members of an organization commit offences, they will then be prosecuted as individuals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u22	Minister, thank you for your response. You rightly recalled that the only authority in this country that has the power to judge whether or not statements incite hatred or are Islamophobic is the judiciary. It is the latter's responsibility, if any, to deal with a situation or an expression, if he considers it to be beyond the scope of the law, which has not been the case in this case. I am very attentive – you will understand this by listening to my speech – to freedom of expression. I can, of course, respect freedom of association, especially in the political formation that is mine. But let me regret once again the fact that a Member of Parliament has been so castigated with very hard comments on him, a fortiori knowing that, in his long-standing political and humanist struggle, he has always ensured that no amalgam or shortcut can be made in relation to his intentions and the desire to promote living together. I hope that there has not been any malicious political will behind this swift condemnation by the ICCB, given the composition of the body. In any event, it is worth recalling that it is not for the ICCB to issue this type of judgment, nor is it for our rule of law, apart from any action by the judiciary, to ask for the restriction of a parliamentarian's freedom of expression, let alone to sanction it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u23	Minister, in recent weeks I have had a few talks with prevention advisers. I regret to note that there are some differences between the prisons. When looking at the distribution between Wallonia and Flanders, there is a serious shortage of prevention advisers in Flanders. If I look at the employment figures for the last ten years and take into account those who are inactive or are about to retire, then I am very worried. Like you, I recently visited the prison of Antwerp. Great was my surprise when I heard the same thing from the union representatives on the ground. In their view, prevention advisers should sometimes even default because their mileage quota has already been reached for the month in question. It is also amazing how many prisons certain prevention advisers should be responsible for. Mr Minister, is the framework being met? If not, how many prevention advisers are currently active? How big is the deficit? I hear that the problem will be even greater by the end of the year and certainly next year. If there are too few advisers, what is the reason for this? How many people are on sick leave? I hear new people will also be recruited. How's the recruitment going? What other causes are there for the possible deficits? Is it true that there are problems with the mileage quota due to the lack of prevention advisers? Is it true that this sometimes means that prevention advisers have to abandon a visit to a prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u24	Mr Colebunders, there is no legal framework for prevention advisers. Good practice speaks of 1 prevention consultant per 1,000 employees. In general, the Justice Department achieves this standard and there are therefore sufficient prevention advisers. Recently the team has been strengthened with two new prevention advisors and three selection procedures are currently in progress to further strengthen the team. Currently, one prevention advisor is long-term absent due to illness. The appointment of a temporary replacement is not evident, as prevention advisers have to undergo statutory training. For this reason, the duties of the data subject are temporarily taken over by colleagues. Although there are no structural deficits, we find that it is not evident to recruit the profiles. Especially due to the statutory training of a year, it takes a long time before prevention advisers are truly operational. For these reasons, we are looking for people who have already been trained, but such profiles are very much sought after in the labour market and in the private sector, where they often get better working conditions. It is true that there has been a problem with the mileage quota in the past, but that has been removed since a new procedure for the reimbursement of travel costs has entered into force. The late payment was also eliminated. The current mileage quota is more than enough. If it appears that this is not the case, an increase in the quota will be requested and obtained. After all, all kilometres are properly reimbursed. This should not prevent prevention advisers from visiting a prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say there were some problems. Of course, I do not know what has changed now, but I heard from prevention advisers that they were not reimbursed until May before January. It is absurd that they have had to advance all these months. That's a problem, isn't it? The recruitment should take place with the guards themselves. I wouldn't know where else to get them. We also need to look at the wage system in which these people start. In the private sector, it is easy to double, without having to look too far. Minister, I do not see how you will solve this problem. I think this problem is seriously underestimated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u26	Guardian is a crucial safety profession in our society, but the intended framework is often not filled. In an earlier question I referred to the deficits, for example in the prison in Antwerp, which I recently visited like you. For these deficits there are a number of reasons, including the limited inflow due to the unattractive nature of the profession. Although the profession requires a certain profile and the guard is confronted with dangerous situations, the starter fee is really low. For example, novice guards often work on a wage of about 1,700 euros. Many employees in the private sector were rightly dissatisfied with the 0.4% premium, but the federal officials did not receive any wage increases. Worse still, the fee for unpleasantness has not exceeded EUR 25 for years. I saw in the Antwerp prison that, when it was still paid in Belgian francs, it was 1,000 francs. How many years have we had the euro? The amount is still the same! The risk premium for police officers is much higher for comparison, while guards are relatively more likely to come into contact with criminals and their physical integrity is often violated. Moreover, it is often not even possible to take seniority if the transfer is made to the guard's profession. To recruit young people, Rosetta contracts are currently being worked on. This raises problems in the field of training and threatens to undermine the status of jailer. Do you believe that wages for start-ups can compete with wages for other jobs in the labour market? Do you think the fee for unpleasantness is sufficiently high? When was it raised again? Don't you think it should be raised? Will you change the status of the guards so that the seniority of the private sector can be taken into account when transferring to the guard? How many Rosetta contracts are effective in prison now? How does that number evaluate over the years? Since employees with a Rosetta contract are less educated, how many accidents and incidents were there with that? Do you consider the use of Rosetta contracts safe in a prison? How has the number of days of disease in the guards evolved over the years? Was there an increase and if so, how do you explain it? Is this increase mainly about physical or, above all, mental problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u27	Mr Colebunders, first of all, in 2010 the function of prison guard, a parole officer, was scaled up to level C. However, the pay scales for the guards are different from those for the common level C betting scale in the federal public office. Especially the starter's fee is much higher for penitentiary staff. If we compare the pay scales with similar functions, for example the monitoring and guidance functions at the Foreign Affairs Office, which were not all scaled up at level C, we can say that the salary of a penitentiary officer is sufficiently attractive. Even if we compare the scales of wages of the basic framework of the police, which are subject to the same diploma requirements, it is clear that the function of penitentiary staff pays better, at least when additional allowances and allowances are not taken into account. On your second question, since 1 July 2002, the so-called flat-rate fee for unpleasantness amounts to EUR 25 per month. Since the Law of 23 March 2019, the King has determined the allowances specifically applicable to people working in a penitentiary context. In addition, allowances must be made dependent on work performance. As part of the implementation of that law, variable remuneration, such as allowances and allowances, is examined in terms of performance and attractiveness. In addition, the exercise is also needed following an audit by the Court of Auditors of 2019, in which the Court of Auditors criticised the policy on premiums, allowances and other fees. The exercise isn't complete yet. The talks with the syndicated partners will be launched. It is therefore too early to make specific statements on this matter. In reply to your third question, I would point out that it is already possible today to have relevant experience from the private sector or as a self-employed person recognised. There is therefore no need to amend the Staff Regulations in this respect. In reply to your fourth question, I would point out that, contrary to your claim, our experience with Rosetta contracts is just as positive. We note that they are the ideal way to get acquainted with the function of penitentiary officer. Most of the employees with Rosetta contracts then move on to a statutory position in the prison system. The number of Rosetta contracts on 1 July 2021 shall be 296. The first Rosetta contracts were awarded to the Directorate-General of Prisons in March 2018. The average number of Rosetta contracts was 15 at the time. There were 75 contracts for 2019, 170 contracts for 2020 and 293 contracts for the first six months of 2021. In reply to your fifth question, although it is impossible to provide such data in the short term, there are no indications that the number of accidents at work has increased as a result of the Rosetta contracts. The average number of sick days over the last seven years is 175.397 days. The figures have been almost constant in recent years. It is impossible to determine whether the absences are due to physical or mental complaints. After all, this is covered by the medical secret.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u28	Minister, you give a lot of figures, and that is good, but the reality is that I hear the same story from all sides of the trade union, namely that it is simply not fun being a guard because of the problem of manpower. One has to make the job attractive. In the prison of Antwerp there is a rather young core, but that is an exception. As far as the guards with Rosetta contracts are concerned, I hear from the trade unions that they have received much less training than an ordinary guard and do not know how to react in certain circumstances. That's another thing for the regular guards. You have no idea whether failure is due to mental or physical complaints, but what I find with the guards themselves is that they are mentally exhausted. You should not underestimate that, especially in overcrowded prisons. Even though there are a little less prisoners because of the corona pandemic, there is still overpopulation. Prisoners may no longer sleep on the floor, but in bunk beds. That brings with it understandable stress for the staff. Minister, I have no doubt that you want to do something about it, but I am sure that we will have to come back to this in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u29	Madam President, Minister, in your plan to refinance justice, which you presented to us on 16 June, you insisted that you want justice that is more humane and accessible to all. Of course, I can only rejoice at this will and subscribe to it, with access to justice for all those who are litigants, without distinction of any kind, to be a top priority in any democratic society such as ours. In this regard, you have announced that you want to reform the second-line legal aid system, known as "pro deo", so that more than 3.5 million citizens can have access to justice. Minister, what concrete measures do you envisage as part of this reform? Is this only an allocation of additional financial resources to the various legal aid offices in our country or is an increase in the staff of these offices also envisaged? Will the value of lawyers' participation in this process also be reviewed? In this regard, do you or will you implement this reform in consultation with representatives of both lawyers and legal aid offices?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to ensure equal access to justice for all and for all, the law of 31 July 2020 increased the revenue ceilings to access second-line legal aid. These ceilings were increased by EUR 200 last September and will increase further gradually over the next three years by EUR 100 per year. Thus, the most vulnerable people will be better able to assert their rights. According to the Court of Auditors' projections, the number of people eligible for full or partial assistance will increase from 1.52 million to 3.5 million. To finance this aid, an additional annual budget is provided. I have also considered the issue in the discussion on the breakdown of EUR 125 million for justice. The increase in the legal aid budget obviously goes hand in hand with the increase in the operating costs of legal aid offices. Indeed, for many years, an annual grant has been provided for the costs associated with the organisation of the latter, charged to the budget of the Justice FPS. This corresponds to 8.1 per cent of the budget used to compensate lawyers. As a result, any increase in the budget will have a direct impact on the increase in the grant of costs related to the organization of legal aid offices and will allow them to organize themselves independently. The proposed reform is mainly of a financial nature. In this regard, my administration works very regularly with order representatives to maximize the use of resources and ensure an effective and efficient legal aid system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u32	Dear colleague, on your first question, the diet is managed locally and independently by the manager, the food buyer and the kitchen technician. They are responsible for providing a balanced and sufficiently varied diet, and for purchasing quality ingredients. On your second question, the local kitchen technician is responsible for the composition of the menu and the communication of the necessary ingredients to the buyer. Specific diets are provided, e.g. gluten-free, pork-free, vegetarian. Contrary to what is often mentioned, I stress that particular attention is paid to fresh food products: fish, vegetables, fruit and dairy products. The food provided is therefore varied and healthy, but it remains a community cuisine, with the quality limitations that this implies. On your third question, fresh products such as fish, dairy products, vegetables and fruit are purchased locally at daily, weekly or monthly prices from the supplier offering the best conditions. Government contracts are concluded at national level for bread, dried food, coffee, meat, charcuterie and frozen food. With regard to your fourth question, the meal of the traditional establishments is covered by the basic allowance 12.51/11.12/11.31. The distribution is made between prisons according to the budget allocated by the budget law. In 2021, the budget provides €3.94 per inmate per day. For DBFM (Design Build Finance Maintain) prisons, the costs are included in the quarterly availability allowance and the contracts are subject to price revision formulas, as provided for in the BAFOs. Facilitation contracts in catering are reviewed every five years. You're asking me if I can confirm that the budget allocated has decreased. I'll give you the chart in writing. In 1980, the figure was EUR 1.61; in 2010 it was EUR 3.56; today it is EUR 3.94. We can therefore see an annual budget increase, albeit limited. There was therefore no question of a reduction in the budget allocated to the feeding of prisoners. To answer your sixth and final question, an annual reassessment is made on the basis of the average population of the previous year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u33	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I will look very carefully at your encrypted table. I understand that the budget allocated to the feeding of prisoners has been steadily increasing in recent years. Of course, it's a joy. However, it should be ensured that this increase is sufficient. It is in this sense that evaluation work is extremely important. If I wanted to ask you this question, it is because it relates to the fulfilment of an obligation that is incumbent upon us and that derives from the Dupont Act, requiring that the conditions of prison life be as similar as those in force outside the prison. In fact, detainees are sentenced to deprivation of liberty, but they do not have to bear another one, which would be poor nutrition. In this regard, you have spoken quite reassuringly. A whole chain is set up at the level of food supply and menu composition. However, as far as I am concerned, I have received totally opposite returns, namely that there are actually two free meals and one snack per day, but that the quantities are sometimes insufficient and that the quality remains rather poor and lacking in fresh products. In these situations, this implies that either prisoners are content with the health consequences involved, or they have the financial means to buy additional food and fresh produce from the canteen. The situation may differ from one prison to another. This poses a serious problem because you tell us that public procurement is being conducted at the national level and that, as a result, the diet is supposed to be the same for all prisoners in all prisons. Today, we cannot afford to have a two-speed diet, although we know that more than one in four inmates is resourceless and, therefore, does not - and he does not have to - have the opportunity to buy additional products himself, alongside what is normally allocated to him. Minister, it is really important that we finally be able to objectiveise the situation on the ground. If inequalities were to be confirmed, they should be rectified as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u34	Dear colleague, with regard to your first three questions, the plan to reorganize the prison health service, which involves a transfer of standards for the organisation and financing of medical care to public health and INAMI, has officially started. Two meetings have already taken place. Another meeting with project leaders and policy makers at the federal and community levels was held this morning. As suggested by one of the recommendations of the interesting report you are quoting, this project covers all aspects of inmate health care, including extractions. How can prisoners obtain care outside the prison? If this care is planned and therefore made by appointment, then the Directorate of Security (DAB) takes care of the extraction. The procedure is up to him and this service will take into account the person's condition as well as the risk assessment. If this care is not planned, therefore urgent, then the prison itself calls 112. Such care may also be programmed and the detainee may visit it himself during the execution of the sentence (e.g., leave of absence or prison leave). All of this will be included in the transfer discussion. In cases where an appointment has been made and the transport is handled by the DAB, it may happen that the planned transport cannot take place. All prisons try to make this exceptional, but this can happen. In such cases, the prison medical service resumes a new appointment as soon as possible. What can be planned will, in most cases, have to be carried out in one of the hospitals with which the prison administration has a privileged working relationship and which are connected to one of these three medical centres. This concerns the Citadelle for Lantin, Sint-Jan in Bruges and some Brussels hospitals for Saint-Gilles, of which Saint-Pierre is the most important. What cannot be planned is sent to the local hospital closest to the prison. Emergencies are never refused by a hospital. If the waiting time in our medical centres is to increase, and if it is no longer comparable to the waiting time in the free society, or if the inmate's state of health does not allow it, another solution will be sought in a local hospital. Adapting to the care needed for covid in free society has meant that at times all non-emergency cases have been postponed in order to give priority to covid. The situation was no different for the prison system. This backlog is being addressed. I am not aware of any reluctance or refusal on the part of hospitals to accept patients from the prison system. If this is the case, the care inspection will be informed or the problem will be brought to the attention of the hospital's mediation service.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answer. If I wanted to question you about the issue of the management of judicial extractions, it was because it was already taking place before the crisis and because, with the crisis, it was very acute. It is true that these extractions are fundamental in terms of the care that can be provided only in the hospital but also in view of the lack of medical staff in prison. I am thinking in particular of the prison in Lantin on which I had already arrested you, a few weeks ago, or that of Mons or Leuze-en-Hainaut. We really need to avoid that, in doing so, situations that must remain exceptional, as you said, end up becoming usual. I am also thinking of the lack of security officers who must be present to supervise the extractions, as we see today at the prison in Tournai. Today, what we see is that prisoners see their operation post-imposed with pain and the medical consequences that result, but also, for example, some prisoners who have to buy medical equipment themselves, such as a splint in the event of a fracture. You have once again had some reassuring comments by telling me that every time, emergencies are provided by hospitals. The question is how to define these emergencies. From what threshold of gravity is it considered that an inmate must be able to be taken care of at the hospital? I do not know whether circulars exist in this regard or by what authority they are drawn up. I think it would be interesting to be able to clarify all this. For the rest, in the government agreement, you specify that inmates must be able to receive care equivalent to those provided outside. I think that requires specific measures. Indeed, prisoners have suffered the backlog that has occurred in hospitals, as well as outside patients, due to the health crisis and the care reserved for the covid. The situation in prisons is such that it requires additional specific measures. We'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u36	Minister, a short time ago, a Lost study in Europe showed that we in Europe do not know where more than 18,000 unaccompanied minors are. In Belgium, in a normal year, about 1,000 such young people are involved. We are certainly not of the Belgian figures, because the reporting of cases in our country is fragmented. Secretary of State Mahdi has already indicated in the media that fragmentation will be addressed. More important than clear figures is the framing of young people. In this respect, since 2004, the Voogdij Service has been the central body for the registration and succession of so-called unaccompanied minor refugees. There are still a lot of shortcomings in the operation of that service. The guardians with whom he works are for the most part volunteers who work carelessly, but they are not trained to deal with more complex profiles. The professional guardians will take care of that. Professional custody is outsourced to the Red Cross of Caritas and is supplemented by volunteers who have adopted a self-employed status. Due to an increase in the number of more complex profiles, there is also more need for professional guardians. Due to a lack of internal professionalisation of the professional guardians and undersubsidisation of the service, the service lacks the ability to properly register and absorb vulnerable groups of young people. In order to achieve this, the Red Cross and other partner organisations need more funding, but they have not yet received it. As far as volunteers are concerned, there is too little policy: there is no sophisticated volunteering. As a result, guardians are often dependent on themselves, are limited and feel undervalued as a result. The current framework provides for only one conversation with the Voogdij service every two years. In addition, the service pretends to be available around the clock, but after 17 hours callers are often told that the service cannot help them. In the event of a nocturnal contact with the police, unaccompanied minors simply disappear back into the street as a result. Everything points to a lack of resources, but also to a lack of effectiveness. That is why I have the following questions for you. Is there any progress in creating a framework for shared reporting? Has the Disappearances Working Group come together yet? What was the result? Will you increase the resources for the Voogdij service so that more professional guardians can be recruited? With the Voogdij department will you see how voluntary guardians can be better supported through more frequent follow-up and demand-driven local support? Finally, will the Voogdij service really be available 24 hours out of 24 in the future, as that service pretends at present?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u37	Indeed, the figures of unaccompanied minors who have disappeared are disturbing. These minors are, of course, vulnerable and risk falling into the clutches of criminal networks. We are also taking action against these networks in our country. Allow me to say that explicitly. The Ministerial Directive of 20 February 2002, as amended in 2014, describes the actions of judicial authorities and police forces in the event of a person's missing persons. It contains a section with special focus on missing unaccompanied minors. This Directive is currently being updated. The authority or person who becomes aware of the disappearance of an unaccompanied minor shall notify the local police. This is usually done in a standardized manner by Fedasil, the guardian or any other authority. All known information shall be communicated to the police who shall examine, in consultation with the judicial authorities, the actions to be taken. The court is competent to judge whether this is an alarming disappearance and applies the criteria of the directive mentioned: under 13 years of age, a life-threatening situation, a serious disability or a mental disorder. The public prosecutor can then order the police to investigate, with assistance from the Missing Persons Cell, the federal police and Child Focus. One registers disappearances without making the distinction in the origin or age of the missing person. When the police are informed of an alarming disappearance, they always make a police report. These minutes are centrally recorded in the General National Police Data Bank. No distinction shall be made between unaccompanied minors and other minors. The primary source for the registration of a disappearance, the rejection of a disappearance and the analysis of the data are the judicial authorities and the police services and not the Voogdij service. For questions relating to the working group on disappearances of unaccompanied minors, please refer to the Secretary of State who is chairing the working group. Several meetings have already taken place, in which my administration participated constructively. I come to your second question. It is correct that the profiles of unaccompanied minors are becoming increasingly complex. This is why the Voogdij department is increasingly working with specialised guardians. For example, there are guardian pools for trafficking in human beings, young people on transit, street children and young people on the border. Specialization means that one has experience with the target group and is immediately available to include such guardians. Usually these are very experienced guardians who have specialized over the years and are therefore also part of different pools. They should be invited on the basis of their experience and availability to be part of these pools. In addition, additional training is offered for the target group concerned. Appointing more specialised guardians requires additional resources. An increase in the remuneration of guardians would be appropriate if they were expected to enter an alert on the spot. I would like to stress that the Communities also have a responsibility in this area and that it is important that adequate resources are made available to help these young people, according to their specific needs. I come to your third question. In recent years, much has been invested in supporting the guardians and it is therefore not right that they are dependent on themselves. Firstly, ten social experts are responsible for the individual supervision and support of guardians. They maintain regular contacts with the guardians. Secondly, there is a coaching programme consisting of various activities, in which voluntary and self-employed guardians are supported by experienced employee guardians of the Red Cross of Flanders and the CAW Brabantia of Caritas International, namely with a telephone help desk, individual advice and training at meetings of guardians in small regional groups. Thirdly, the guardians from the start receive a basic training of five days and several thematic training courses are being organized on a permanent basis, such as recently on the problems of street children in Brussels. Voogden can also propose a training which the Voogdij service pays back. Fourthly, since 2018 there has been a project to strengthen the custody system at the Voogdij department. The Voogdij Service receives a grant of EUR 471,000 from the European Fund for Asylum, Migration and Integration for this purpose. This budget extends and strengthens support for guardians. Various initiatives are being taken, such as the elaboration of an e-learning for guardians and training sessions. The training will be practical and the different modules will include building a relationship of trust, tension between distance and proximity, cultural-sensitive communication, dealing with resistance or conflict. That e-learning module will be available by the end of this year. In addition, a very comprehensive guide for guardians is being developed. Each year, the permanentity of the Voogdij service quickly processes thousands of descriptions of unaccompanied minors within and outside the office hours. The permanence is available 24/7 by telephone. Between six o'clock in the morning and ten o'clock in the evening, an employee of the service arrives. Between 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., employees of other central justice departments will observe the permanence. They note the call and at six o'clock the Voogdij service does the necessary for the reception or appointment of a guardian. Making the 24/7 permanence run only on employees of the Voogdij service endangers the main activity of the service. The system of shifts, where there is also active permanence every day between 22:00 and 6:00 a.m. by staff trained to do so, would involve the recruitment of a large number of new employees and the definition of new processes. Moreover, this would only make sense if the authorities responsible for night care provided, preferably per province and not only in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u38	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I had already put my question to Secretary of State Mahdi. He referred me to you with my question. I have therefore received a broad answer, for which I am grateful. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that this is an extremely vulnerable group which must be adequately protected. That is our moral duty. The Lost study in Europe shows that we are far from satisfactory in terms of protection. Finally, I would like to stress that NGOs are really asking for sufficient resources to carry out their work properly. The other elements are certainly important, but sufficient resources for NGOs are essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic545x.u39	There were two further questions from Mrs De Wit, namely Nos. 55019714C and 55019718C. However, she could not log in on time. Those two questions will therefore be postponed to next week.
