ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u1	We agreed this morning that we could read the internal report of the general inspection of the defence sector. In the meantime, we have also had time to read the document. We have just agreed that we will have an exchange of views on this matter. We'll start with an explanation from the Minister. It has also been agreed that in the quotes that we wish to give or not to give, we would be reluctant. We do not make statements that would harm the various ongoing investigations. We also ensure that we do not make statements that make certain persons identifiable, that we could therefore be distracted about who exactly we are talking about in the hierarchy or wherever. Madam Secretary, you have the floor for your introduction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I committed myself to it and as you decided this morning, I am making an interim point on this subject, on the basis of the first report that I received and which you were able to read about. This report deals only with certain aspects of the Conings case: the journey from Conings to the Defence; the way in which he was able to obtain weapons; and the way in which the Defence dealt with and reacted to his background. The report draws a number of conclusions on which I will come back with you, and makes a number of recommendations. The conclusions reached can only be intermediate, with many elements of a response still to be provided by the R Committee report. I shall therefore confine myself here to outlining possible avenues which may still evolve according to the findings of the inquiry of the R Committee or the judicial authorities. In addition, some of you have also asked me questions. I shall come back to that at the end of my explanation, in so far as they have not yet been answered in the course of my speech. Before proceeding, I would like us to remember that Jürgen Conings is still fugitive. It means two things. First of all, the investigation is still ongoing. I'm sticking to my point of view for the last month. The federal prosecutor conducts the investigation and is in charge of communicating on the ongoing investigation. I will therefore not explain the state of the investigation, the different slopes, the possible accomplices and the security situation of certain individuals. I can assure you that the Department of Defense is actively involved in the investigation and makes all the necessary resources available on the basis of what the federal prosecutor is asking of us. Today, for example, 150 defence personnel are at the disposal of the investigation, together with a helicopter and a drone. According to the latest estimate, the cost of this contract is currently around EUR 650,000. These costs will be borne by the Defense Department. This amount shall include the reimbursement of personnel, helicopter flight hours and general logistical support for military personnel and equipment deployed. Secondly, it means considering the possibility of Conings having access to the information that appears in the press or that we are discussing here. You will therefore understand that it is important not to go into the most sensitive details, even if I am of course at your disposal to answer questions about the measures taken in this case. Beyond the individual case, the report highlights structural problems that I will of course answer. We need to agree on another important point before we go any further. That's what's just been done. As I recall, the Inspector General's report and its annexes bear the marking of "restricted broadcasting". The Inspector General and CHOD have agreed to have access to the report by the members of the commission and you have been able to consult it. The report contains information on an ongoing judicial investigation, data to identify persons involved who could be endangered by the fugitive or one of his supporters, but also sensitive data on the organisation of the SGRS, internal procedures at the Defence and the individual concerned, in particular data on psychosocial analysis which, without violating medical secrecy, are nevertheless sensitive. It seemed important to me that Members of this committee should be able to read about it. I understand the difficulties you have expressed. However, the nature of the situation requires certain precautions. If we were to address more sensitive issues, it will be necessary to work in camera. We have all taken note of the report and must show some measure in our interventions. I am just as attached to transparency as you are, which is why I came this morning and am here now. I therefore propose that you start with the general conclusions of the report. In general, the report concludes that a large number of factors, each having a limited impact in themselves, have led to an incident of this magnitude. A structural lack of staff in the various services and at all levels, the high staff turnover during the period considered, the loss of knowledge and experience, limited supervision in the last unit of Conings, the impact of the corona measures, a lack of information flow, mainly from the security chain to the hierarchical line, a relatively new and complex operating structure in the ADIV that is still to grow, internal personnel problems in the ADIV and punctual deficiencies in the exchange of information within Defence and between the different security services have all contributed to escalating the incident to the known proportions. In addition, it is clear that there is still no clear policy in the Defence Department with regard to extremism. I will go back to the findings, conclusions and recommendations in three areas: taking into account the profile of Conings and its follow-up by the Defence, the rules on access to arms and ammunition, and finally the approach to extremism in Defence. First of all, it is important to clarify that the administrative file of the person concerned has been submitted by the judicial authorities. He is part of the investigation and the Inspector General's team of investigators was unable to access it. However, I can tell you that Conings has repeatedly solicited the psycho-social services of the Defence, be it the social service or the mental health service. Respect for professional secrecy precludes the provision of specific information on this subject, but Jürgen Conings knew that he could receive assistance from the Defence. Based on the available information and the past of Conings, the psychosocial analysis does not provide an immediate indication of a possible posttraumatic experience. At the time of its transfer to the operations pre-deployment cell in June 2020, information on Conings' behaviour available to the services concerned – threats, proximity to far-right movements – was limited and was not considered serious enough to impede this movement. The report also highlights a pivotal period in the dossier, in late summer and early autumn 2020. At that time, three processes are taking place in parallel. First, a complaint was filed by the police for threats against Marc Van Ranst in July 2020, for which the prosecutor's office decided not to open any information. The very existence of this investigation is not brought to the attention of the Defence Human Resources Branch. However, the SGRS will be informed of this in circumstances which still need to be clarified by the R Committee. Secondly, with regard to the withdrawal of the security clearance, several elements highlighted in the report must be pointed out here. I am giving them to you as they appear in the report: "The decision to withdraw the authorisation is taken on 31 August 2020 because of Conings' proximity to the far right ideology and because of the statements made by the person concerned to the SGRS and on social networks." The Earth Component security officer was notified on 17 September 2020 and Conings on 12 November 2020. The Military Security Instruction does not provide for such a withdrawal from a clearance to be notified to other persons, so neither the direct hierarchy (his head of service) nor the administrative hierarchy nor the Earth Component have been officially notified. However, a discussion took place between the line line and the SGRS on November 10, 2020. The versions differ on the content of this conversation, but it can only be seen that it did not lead to the adoption of any security measures. Finally, as regards the handling of the complaint concerning racism, the prosecutor decided to classify the complaint without result and to refer Conings to the disciplinary procedure in his corps. However, Conings' hierarchy classified the file without further action for various reasons. First of all, the fact that there was a referral to discipline within the Corps does not seem to have been properly understood. His hierarchy based itself on that fact to classify the case, because it seemed as if the prosecutor did not consider the facts important or serious, while it was simply an opportunity decision. For the parquet, disciplinary sanctions seemed a more appropriate solution. Secondly, Conings' administrative file is empty. There's no information or clue about the ongoing investigation into threats in his file. There is no mention of the withdrawal of security clearance either. Finally, there are no clear guidelines on how to deal with racism. It is therefore not subject to any more severe penalty than the four-day penalty already imposed. These three parallel procedures highlight important communication problems and a lack of adequate procedure within the organisation. These various reasons should have led to a reassessment of the functions of Conings, but in the absence of a precise disclosure of the information, this has not been achieved. In this regard, the report recommends improving communication internally and to other security actors, in particular with regard to clarity of security implications and risks. On the basis of these intermediate findings, I can outline other solutions, subject, of course, to what the ongoing investigations will establish. I therefore add the following measures. As part of the review of the Military Security Training, I would like to see a systematic and proactive withdrawal of clearance communicated to DG HR and to the head of the person concerned. In addition, I would like to provide for a structured dialogue between the SMS and the hierarchy to determine what action should be taken on a case-by-case basis. The link between the information that can or should be exchanged between the units, DG HR and the SGRS must, without doubt, be improved. Secondly, clear lines of communication between the Prosecutor's Office, DG HR and the Chiefs of Staff should be provided, translated into directives and communicated. A genuine awareness of this procedure and of the complementarity of judicial and disciplinary responses to behavioural problems must take place among the Chiefs of Staff. Finally, I will contact the Minister of Justice to ensure that the proceedings are known to all, stressing the importance of a fluid exchange of information between the judiciary and the defence. As regards the fact that Conings was included on the OCAD list, the report points to several problems. The platform for non-religious extremism has too few personnel and the latter is too unexperienced. The SGRS was absent from an important meeting of the local Radicalism Plan Task Force on February 17, 2021. For this reason, the information that Conings, categorized in the OCAM database at level 3 of the threat as a potentially violent extremist, arrives at the SGRS only a week later, on February 24, but will not be released in-house until March 2, 2021. This information does not receive the necessary attention. It is sent to the intelligence collection management body and to the relevant platform, but according to the report it does not go back to the SGRS, nor is it communicated horizontally to other directorates. Finally, some of the assets of the Conings operation launched on 25 February 2021 were redirected to another operation on 4 May. This decision is taken by the Steering Committee of the SGRS responsible for prioritizing means according to threats. The decision of this Committee therefore does not take into account the inclusion of Conings in the OCAM database. The fact that such crucial information has not been provided and therefore has not been taken into account by the committee responsible for allocating the means of investigation is a matter of concern. I will, however, await the findings of the R Committee before making further determinations on the actions to be taken at the SRMS level. With regard to access to arms, the report's findings are twofold. It is noted that the ease of access to weapons and ammunition is the result of the specific situation of the pre-deployment cell and the procedures in force. At the same time, several breaches of the rules are noted, of which one, control of the control of rocket launchers by the hierarchy was insufficient. The use of these rockets was not provided for in the intern training programme but had been commissioned for instructors. Two, the storage of rocket launchers in the ammunition store did not comply with the storage licence. The place can only accommodate small arms ammunition. Nor should they have been kept in a decentralized store for so long without being used. Three, there is no systematic registration of arms exits within this unit. The report also details that a local procedure more stringent than the IF5 standard exists for access to ammunition. This procedure requires that persons having access to it have a security clearance. Unfortunately, this procedure has never been formalized and has not been followed in this case. Had this procedure been generalized and carried out to the end, Conings would no longer have had access to ammunition from November 2020. In other words, current procedures do not ensure that this type of incident does not occur. The IF5 Military Security Regulation is currently being revised. To this end, a working group was formed in January 2021. The need for security clearance for all ammunition and/or weapons managers and personnel with access to ammunition depots and weapons stores will be taken into account by this working group. An internal working group looks structurally at the various areas related to the safe management and use of weapons and ammunition. The work of this group must be accelerated and incorporate the results of the Inspector General's investigation. I will be careful to ensure that this working group applies as far as possible a separation between risk functions (significant access to weapons on the one hand and ammunition on the other) including in our materiel management system. Similarly, information technology systems must not only integrate existing procedures and verifications, but also facilitate them. Finally, a final point of attention in the work I have asked to do will be the hierarchical dependence of small units within Defence, such as the pre-deployment cell on operations. Such units are away from their ultimate manager, causing problems in monitoring staff, and are frequently housed in other units, creating confusion as to the safety protocol to be followed. As far as extremism policy is concerned, according to the report, the history of racism has been adequately addressed by unity. This situation is not acceptable. As I said, there is a need to strengthen the exchange of information, but above all, there needs to be a real approach to the phenomenon of extremism in Defence. The detailed analysis of the framework set out in the report shows that it needs to be updated – too many texts are no longer in line with the reality of 2021 – or strengthened, including the code of conduct on freedom of expression, its limits and integrity in the use of social media. I will therefore ensure that, in the coming months, a clear policy and guidelines for corps leaders are developed in the fight against extremism and racism. Unions will be involved in the discussions. We will also define how acts of racism and discrimination should be reported to the Public Prosecutor's Office and to Unia. Beyond this approach, I want these themes to be linked to learning Defence values and generic skills. Projects will be developed to enable recruits and staff to live up to these values. Defence must be a reflection of society; it must be in all its diversity and, as such, no form of discrimination is acceptable. In this context, I will rely on the Vulnerability Analysis carried out at the headquarters level. I come to the specific questions. The strengthening of the ADIV by 81 staff, as requested, is part of the priorities already set by Defence. However, following the Conings case, it was decided to speed up the increase in staff to ensure the proper functioning of the ADIV. The urgent strengthening of the ADIV is now also one of the recommendations cited in the inspector-general's report. The 81 military are intended to strengthen the ADIV's capabilities for the following competences: intelligence, exploitation, intelligence gathering via informants, intelligence management, military security and general service support. I am aware that attracting military personnel from other parts of Defence to the benefit of the ADIV is not an ideal measure, but as far as structural measures for Defence in general are concerned, I refer to our earlier discussions on how in recent years the recruitment and working conditions of staff have been handled and how I intend to reverse the trend. As regards cooperation between the VSSE and the OCAD, following the recommendations of the 2016 Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the attacks, the VSSE and the ADIV have significantly increased their cooperation on many common issues. In the search for synergies, they have set up, inter alia, a joint platform against terrorism, which has been operational for a long time. The two services continue to look for ways and means to streamline their joint work. This is done, among other things, within the framework of the National Strategic Intelligence Plan, which has been approved by the National Security Council. The cooperation between the OCAD, the VSSE and the ADIV is a daily reality in which information is exchanged through the platforms set up for that purpose under the Plan R. The members of the ADIV shall have access to the database of the OCAD for their daily activities. The Head of the ADIV shall be deemed to receive information during regular briefings by the different teams of his service. It is not the task of the Chief of the ADIV to consult the database of the OCAD itself. He has other responsibilities than checking the database. That's the job of his associates. However, in the specific case, the information was not passed on to him. So he couldn't report them to higher levels either. A faster and more automated flow of information is hampered by the need for revision of the ADIV's IT infrastructure. This assessment has already been made by the Committee I. A project to digitize the service is currently ongoing, just to follow up on that deficiency. The lack of appropriate technical means for the exchange of secure information between the security and defence services of the country is also not conducive to the rapid and secure flow of information. The number of BIM applications relating to the extreme right varies according to the current priorities. In 2021, a major effort was made to follow up the military on the ADIV watchlist, in order to further analyse the trend of an extreme right-wing presence at Defense. This was in line with the Committee I's recommendations in this respect. We will continue to look closely at the profile of military personnel who support Conings or present clues to extreme right-wing behaviour while maintaining a balance with the privacy and opinions of individuals who have the freedom to express themselves in our rule of law. The debate on possible sanctions, apart from criminal acts pursued by the prosecution against this type of soldier, is also a fair-balanced debate that will be considered on a case-by-case basis on the basis of the facts and actions of individuals and military processes and regulations allowing for appropriate disciplinary sanctions, while respecting the rights of the parties concerned. What will be the impact of the case on outsourcing? This case does not affect the outsourcing. The sub-contracts of the guard concern only access to military quarters and do not relate to weapons or sensitive equipment. So there are no plans to modify the current contracts. The Pre-Deployment Training (PDT) cell has suspended the ongoing training sessions. These were moved to a later date. The four-week period without training was used to seek external reinforcement, which is necessary for the proper execution of these trainings, which will start again next week. The previous function of Conings has not yet been completed. As far as the military list is concerned, Defence has so far taken protective and temporary measures, which, I would like to point out, are not disciplinary measures, against thirteen people, including Conings. These measures include a ban on access to weapons or classified information. Additional measures may be taken for the 13 military or others, depending on the evolution of the analysis and the investigations requested from the ADIV. No appeals were received. As for the dismissal procedure, Jürgen Conings has been illegally absent since May 19. His bet hasn't been paid since. The procedure for a definitive waiver of office was initiated. A board of inquiry met yesterday and a decision will be taken quickly. Here are the first conclusions, the intermediate answers that can be given on the basis of the internal investigation report. I suggest that you come back to you as promised at the end of June to present the conclusions of the R Committee's report, as well as all the measures necessary to adequately respond to the conclusions of the two reports. In the meantime, of course, I remain at the disposal of your committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u3	Thank you for the explanation, Madam Secretary. You have also answered a number of questions put by colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to open the exchange of views. We work in order of the size of the group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u4	Mr President, I think it is important that we have dealt with this in this way. I have seen a lot of eager students write down in order to be able to present the report in a good way and to understand the report properly. It is not evident that it is monolingual Dutch, if it was monolingual French, it would not be evident to the Dutch. That took some time, but it is important that we have drawn the line with this committee that it was enough. There must be respect for parliamentary democracy. The People's Assembly has its duties, but it also has its rights to properly control the government. So we had to be able to see that report in depth before it was debated. That could have been avoided, in my view, if the report had just been available for inspection this morning or last night. I don't understand the stubbornness of the government and the cabinet. It is not the first time that the Minister has resisted and is not giving more transparency in advance. After all, people come across themselves time and time again. In the case of the C-130, the file of the WHI and again in this file, you are trying to take the test of strength with Parliament, Madam Minister, and you are not winning it. This is an advice from someone who's been here for 20 years. Be careful the next time you take the test of strength with Parliament's representation. You also received the lid on the nose from your own majority. There must be respect for Parliament, for our work. We respect your government work, but you must also respect our work. I didn't ask for your resignation, but I'm asking for nothing more than to be able to do my job as a representative of the people. I speak for many people in Flanders, many people in this country. Let us do our job and you'll do your job. After all, we all work for a better defense. Let it be very clear that I do not doubt your good intentions. Nor do I doubt your commitment and your work force, but I simply demand respect for parliamentary representation and our right of control over the government. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise that I have been able to look at the report. That went well. I would like to thank the services and the chairman for the good work they have done. I should also thank the general inspection of Defense, because it's a good report. This goes to the essence. This is a report that I think every Belgian should read, because I think it provides answers to the questions that everyone is asking. How did this happen? How could this man, who apparently has very far-right thoughts, walk out of the barracks with a bag full of weapons of war, with the idea of killing Marc Van Ranst among others? How did it get this far? Warning shots were fired, but apparently they weren't captured or passed on. I believe that the report provides an answer to all these questions. Those are the questions I'm struggling with. I've been following the DOD for a while, but for other colleagues, too, this report is high-level. I would therefore also like to thank the defence staff who have tried to list this in an independent and objective way, under pressure of time and under enormous pressure from the media and politics. After all, Parliament asked for a report. These people have done their work in all objectivity, hence my thanks to the services of the general inspection of defence. I am certainly looking forward to the Committee I report at the end of the month. I will not go into all the elements. After all, there are many of us, and everyone has their say. I noticed a few things at the lecture. I won't say anything about the weapons depots and the fact that the missiles were stored together and that it didn't happen according to the security protocols so that the man could run away with the weapons. I think it has gone wrong at two points, firstly, in the withdrawal of the security clearance and, secondly, in the determination of the level (level 3) by the OCAD. That's what you said. Part of that is because of personnel problems. This is undeniable when we read the report. OCAD level 3 is reported. Then there was a personnel problem with the ADIV. Eventually, there was only one person left. It was then declared chief and was not present at the meeting. He received the 30-page report. He couldn't read it, or it wasn't quite clearly formulated. For the rest, no one was aware. To point the finger at that man, maybe it's a little cheap and easy. That's what I thought was the most striking thing about this entire staff issue. I always stand up for the staff of Defense and for the professionalism of our people. That staff shortage is certainly a point, but it is also an issue that many people within the Ministry of Defence are competent, but no one seems to feel responsible. Umbrellas are opened very quickly and one is constantly busy covering oneself in case something would go wrong. We have to look at that mentality. It's been sneaking in for a long time, and that goes from the lowest units to the general staff. A mentality has been created in which people always think they should cover themselves and open their umbrella at the right time. We politicians have that, too. We certainly do not exonerate ourselves, neither do I, but I do think that is something that can be seen from that report. That is an important consideration I make when I analyse that report and I would like to share it with this meeting. I would also like to stress that this is not just a defence matter, and I am pleased, Madam Minister, that you have done the same. There's been constant calls to Defense here, but there were signals at the parquet and the OCAD. The OCAD didn't share that more widely. This is also a case of Justice and Home Affairs. I believe it is necessary that responsibility should not be placed solely with the defence sector, and this is independent of the fact that the Minister is part of the Parti Socialiste. It is not correct and I think that you have rightly emphasised this in your explanatory statement, Madam Minister. You have been very kind to your colleagues, because you are in a government and you have only been working for nine months. It's really not just a matter of defense. I think that is very important, and this is also mentioned several times in the report. Pointing the finger doesn't help us, but it can be said. What also strikes me is that there seems to be no push system in the OCAD database. That file changes all the time, names are added and names are dropped. The OCAD database we were able to access when I was Secretary of State for Migration is no longer the same today. That's an evolutionary fact, but there's no push system. If one does not consult that oneself, then one is not informed of a change. Madam Minister, I hope that you and the Prime Minister will see if a pushsy stone can be installed in the database so that it can be seen when a red flag goes on. I don't expect your services to check every day to see if anything changes in the database. I certainly understand that, and I think that is a justified point. I come to another point, in this case extremist beliefs. I'm a little on my guard. I took the word 'witch hunt' in my mouth at some point because I received signals from the field that a witch hunt or something very similar would have opened up to anyone who is Flemish-nationalist and right-minded. There's a lot of them like that. It is not because one is Flemish-nationalist or Flemish- and right-minded that one is also an extremist. There is a very large bandwidth and the difference is large. Sometimes it is bon ton to put all that in one bag, but that is very short down the bend and I will never support that. One of the basis points according to the current guidelines is loyalty to the Nation. That is a very broad concept. Anyone with Flemish-nationalist sympathies within Defense, could he be loyal to the Nation? We can discuss that. Is someone who supports Theo Franken or Bart De Wever loyal to the Nation? According to Ecolo and the PTB, maybe not, but according to people in Flanders they might. Mr De Vriendt stated in this regard that there is no witch hunt for nationalists. I think that's a very important statement. The report contains a second point, which is also contained in your directives. There is a ban on expressing opinions that can shake the nation's confidence in the armed forces. These are container concepts that can actually affect everyone. Every fan of Theo Francken or Bart De Wever can be met in that way. It can be said that someone has expressed an opinion because that person on social media has liked something from the N-VA or Mr Peter Buysrogge, our very moderate chairman. That could shake the nation's trust. I am convinced that there are many people in this country, even in this government, who believe that this is part of that concept. You also referred to the guidelines for the proper use of the social media of 21 May 2019 in response to a previous question I asked. That's an internal directive written by the Defense Department. In that context, you said that all those who have liked the Facebook page As 1 behind Jürgen are screened by the ADIV for their 50,000 people before they were taken offline and belong to the military personnel or civilian personnel of the Defense Department. I've asked you several times how many people that was. I'd like some figures on that. You are always talking about the eleven or twelve people now it is twelve people whose security clearance you have withdrawn. I understand that a lot of these people feel particularly disliked and have appealed to it through the union. We shall see what the Council of State and the Labour Court say about this. I'm very curious about those statements. However, this is only about 11 people, but what about everyone who is military and who belongs to those 50,000 people? That'll be dozens, maybe hundreds of people. What's happening to them? Is the ADIV screening them? Are they being called on the mat? Will they be sanctioned? Will their security clearance be revoked? Do they get a raspberry, a note, a warning? Don't they have weapons anymore? Can they still go to the weapons depot to pick up weapons at the barracks? I've been asking for weeks, but I can't get an answer. I would finally like to clarify that. How many people are we talking about? You say that you are relying on the guidelines for the proper use of the social media of 21 May 2019. I would like to go into more detail, because I am concerned about this, not because I think you or Mr De Vriendt are of bad will. However, we must be careful. Freedom of expression is a particularly great and important asset. Generations have fought for this, including through our armed forces and our national defence. So I really want to lance for caution. I have no problem in itself that you want to look at this again and that all forms of extremism are clearly defined, including in terms of behaviour on social media, because I am opposed to extremism within Defence. Let that be very clear, let there be no doubt about it. My party is against extremism within the Defense Department, within all security professions, by the way. Thought is free, but we have to be careful who we recruit to the Defense Department. I totally agree with that. Let's be careful. It is a polarized political climate, not only in Belgium, but throughout Europe and throughout the Western world. That's all I can ask. Common sense has come a long way, and I am sure you and the Defense Staff have. This morning there was talk about the leak in Le Soir. It has been said that there was a leak in Le Soir and that you deeply regret that it did not come from your cabinet and that you asked the CHOD to investigate. How's that going? We don't get to see the report, but it's in Le Soir. My coffee fell into my lap this morning because I was so renovated I had to read it in Le Soir. Someone sent me the question if I'd read Le Soir. I got it right in and I wasn't good at it. Has there been an effective investigation into that leak? What will happen to that? You say it's not from you or your cabinet. Then it's got to come from the D.O.D. It can't come from us, because we didn't have the report yet. That must be investigated through the Department of Defense. I want to know the leak of Jürgen Coning's personal file in the press at the same level. I'm definitely not a fan of his, but this is going too far. That's not from the political world. None of us have the personal file on Jürgen Conings. That comes from the cabinet, from the general staff or from someone from the DOD, someone from HR who has access to it. That file was leaked completely in the paper. I understand the journalists who bring that, but I find that totally unacceptable. Whether it's a jihadist or a far-right fascist, I don't care. People don't do that. There too, I want a proper investigation. No two sizes, two weights. Last point, Minister. You give an overview here, which was correct and you have answered a lot of questions, including mine. I will not go into that further. I've been asking for weeks about that group of 50,000, how many soldiers have been filtered out and what their sanction has been. You may give me that answer in writing. I don't necessarily have to today, but I really do want to have that. I will continue to submit that question. You're stubborn, but I too can be very stubborn. You give an overview here as if you were a journalist, but of course you are the Minister of Defense. I find that a little weird sometimes. You take a certain distance and in itself that is good: you must distance yourself and give an overview of what has happened. However, there is a huge political responsibility. When it comes to that, there's some kind of blindness. You're doing an analysis of what happened. You always repeat that you have been Minister for nine months now, j'y suis, j'y rest, that you are not to blame for what has happened, that you have not given Jürgen Conings weapons, that you have not ensured that that man has been radicalised and that it was not your job to provide psychological guidance for that man. In short, you say it's not your fault. I know that, but there is a certain political responsibility. When are we gonna get to talk about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u5	I would like to join Mr Francken in his appreciation of the report. It's a very detailed, very interesting report. Congratulations on the DOD inspection that produced it in a very short time. When I read the report, I also had a feeling of great regret because of course the report is very confrontational. It's a very unfortunate case for the Defense Department. It's been in the press for weeks, and it's a blow to the defense's image. DOD doesn't really deserve this. There are a lot of people within the Defense Department, who work with very limited resources, every day, to make the best of it and who do not make the mistakes that have come to light, even structural mistakes. You'll have a lot of work to do to re-establish the motivation within the Defense Department. It went better for a while, for example when the military were on the street. We weren't for that. We have always said that it had one important advantage, that people come into contact with the military. They recognize once again the value of the army in our society. Politics can also look in the mirror. All parties haven't given Defense the resources it deserves in recent decades. This government is making a heavy effort, trying to straighten that out by an additional EUR 500 million this year. It's gonna be necessary. So there is a lot of work for you and for the CHOD to re-establish that motivation within the Defense Department. The Conings case is, of course, a huge and extremely dangerous incident. Of course, there is also a structural problem that is being exposed here and that transcends the Conings case. The report gives an anthology of structural errors. It's a playbook of mistakes, of absurdities. It's actually a blunderbook. It's about a lack of information flow. It's about not taking signals of radicalisation seriously within the Defense Department. It is also about far too easy access and far too poor control of access to weapons warehouses and depots, especially in the case of someone like Jürgen Conings. All this has led to a particularly dangerous situation. We are going to have to deal with these structural errors if we are to avoid more cases like Jürgen Conings. It's an accumulation of structural errors. We have to deal with them. We now know what enormous risk this could lead to. I am pleased that the report contains recommendations which you, as a minister, will take to heart. We will be watching over this as a parliament. Then we come to the most important, the system errors within the Defense Department, so hopefully we won't see this again. I would like to raise the most important points in the report and ask you to comment on them. I also have a number of explicit questions. As far as the flow of information is concerned, a number of things I am going to say are definitely targeting the ADIV. Military intelligence has dropped serious stabbing here. But the report reveals a lot more than that. I would like to emphasise this and at the end of my speech I will stress this. There is something rotting in the state of Defense . It's a snake pit. What I also see is that there is a power struggle going on and a search for a scapegoat, within the various departments and components of Defense, and certainly directed towards external services such as the ADIV, which has made serious mistakes, but the ADIV is not alone in that. You will have to watch over it, and that is not easy. The CHOD will also have to watch over that. I hope you brought or will bring everyone within the Defense Department. What I read, feel and smell is resistance, also to a number of plans you want to carry out to tackle radicalisation within the army. That's a pestilence. Mr Francken also said that extremism must be tackled within the army. I also smell resistance to a number of recommendations to clean this up. We see that from September 2019 the ADIV is gathering information about Jürgen Conings about possible links with far-right organisations, but that the direct hierarchy of Jürgen Conings has never been informed of this. September 2019 is quite early in the chronology. There is a case of racism on social media, on Facebook in 2019. A criminal record is being prepared. The report of racism is also on the radar of Defense itself. We read in the report that there is then doubt among some of his superiors, I would like to say in general about the way in which the issue is handled, because I quote: 'there is little or no guidance on sanctions or on the policy on racist statements'. So there is a first important signal. Apparently, there are insufficient protocols in the Defense Department to deal with this, to assess the seriousness of the situation and to immediately proceed with the necessary follow-up. After all, a sentence has been given, namely four days' arrest. However, follow-up, guidance and radarisation of various services has not happened. It's a structural error within the Defense Department. I have heard your statements before and read the recommendations in the report. These are points which we must address and which must not be repeated. An important event is that there has been a change from Jürgen Conings to his service, the Pre-Deployment Training, where he had very easy and direct access to the ammunition and weapons depots, with which the misery finally began. We read in the report that at the time of the change to his new service there was no flow of information from the past. We are talking about 2 June 2020. Before that, there was another important event. There's been an application for a renewal of his security clearance. The application was made on 28 August 2019 and has had a remarkably long journey for the Defence Department until the end of August 2020. Twelve months is remarkably long and it is not common for the ADIV or Defence to be applied for so long. The result of the investigation was negative. His security clearance has been revoked. That was a decision of the ADIV. What does the ADIV do with the information? Is the service keeping them to itself? Is there a problem with the ADIV? No, colleagues, because the ADIV signals the decision to a number of members of the Land Component. Only at that point is not what we could assume, namely that the alarm bells go off and that with the Land component that information flows to where it is needed. It is not easy to withdraw a security clearance, especially after 12 months. This always happens because of a problem of integrity and/or loyalty and this should raise the necessary questions, which in this case did not happen with the Landcomponent. It doesn't stop there. There was a second moment of flow of information from the ADIV to the Land Component. On 10 November 2020, there was a conversation between the ADIV and one of Jürgen Conings' superiors within the Land Component. That's not gonna be about small talk. It was about the Jürgen Conings case. If the ADIV has a conversation with someone from the Land Component, it is obviously to pass on sensitive information. The investigation report does not provide an explanation of the degree of detail of that sensitive information, because there is a contradiction in the testimonies and explanations. On the one hand, the ADIV says that at the time all information was provided, on the other hand, people from the Land Component said that there was then an advice from the ADIV not to take any additional measures, since the ADIV wanted to build up a heavier dossier. It's used as an argument for doing nothing. Whatever they may be, even the second one, I do not accept as a valid argument, because what is a normal reflex when the ADIV says that it is building up a heavy dossier and is asking for no additional action to be taken? Then a normal reflex is just to investigate the seriousness and to take additional measures, if necessary, to assess the seriousness of the risk and to protect the safety of our society from someone who is going crazy like that. That was an alarm signal. For the second time, information flowed through to the Land Component with which nothing happened. So it's double. The ADIV has, of course, made a serious mistake and we now know when it was and we should not go into it in more detail when Jürgen Conings is being signaled by the OCAD. He was on the OCAD list and the OCAD passed that information on to the ADIV. That was a Level 3 signal, which means a big risk. That is then sent internally within the ADIV, so there is a certain flow of information, but it does not go to the hierarchical line of those involved, it does not go to the CHOD, it does not go to the Minister of Defence. The ADIV is working on that investigation, it is getting bigger and more worrying and on 4 May it will be stopped because of a lack of manpower. It is appalling to read, ladies and gentlemen, that the ADIV has someone heavily on the radar and that the investigation has to stop because of a lack of manpower. I would like to say a few words about the problem of ammunition and access to arms depots and so on. The report puts it in writing, the person concerned apparently could order fully independent ammunition and pick up ammunition, without much external control or permission. Apparently, the military in question had a position of confidence. So he had too many possibilities and freedom and there was too little control, which is an explosive cocktail when it comes to accessing weapons depots for someone with bad intentions. More checks-and-balances, more checks-and-balances, more checks-and-checks are needed. It is therefore about ammunition for anti-tank weapons that was ordered. The report states that this was not necessary, but it could have happened. It's about ammunition and weapons being placed in armored cabinets in one block, and it didn't happen according to the protocols and rules either. On social media and radicalism in the army, the research report also makes it very clear that there is a need to update and strengthen the relevant directives and brochures. Mr President, I come to my conclusion. Mr Francken said today on Twitter that the leak of the report came from the minister's cabinet. The Minister denies that. I honestly doubt that, too. Who knows? When I read the report, I note that the article in Le Soir is tendentious, only gives half the truth. Something's going on in the DOD. There is selective leaking, to keep certain jars covered, to point especially to others. That's an immense problem. I have just gone into it, I will not repeat myself, Madam Secretary. There are several problems within the Defense Department and it is certainly not limited to the ADIV alone. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the recommendations. The recommendation to introduce a security clearance for personnel who have unsupervised access to ammunition and weapons warehouses seems to us to be a good proposal. It fits with the need for more control and more checks-and-balances. However, I would like to make a specific comment on the speedy completion of a number of functions in the ADIV. Defence is working on this in the very short term, which is a good thing in itself, but please do not let this at the expense of other crucial functions within Defence that can avoid disasters such as those of Jürgen Conings. There's a problem with the flow of information within the Defense Department. Maybe that's also about a lack of staff. So don't take too many people away too quickly from crucial functions to put them at the ADIV, because then one might create a problem somewhere else, the waterbed effect as it were. Of course, we also fully support the obvious recommendations such as improving communication between all services. If a threat level of a particular person is changed, it must be transmitted automatically, so that one should not begin to enter names in databases. If there is a problem somewhere, a push message must appear automatically. Madam Minister, these recommendations must not, of course, remain a dead letter. Too much depends.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u6	I would like to thank my predecessors for both the opposition and the majority for their interventions. I believe that they have shown a common will in this case, in view of what is happening to us today, to rebuild in a mutual way and to find solutions together for National Defence, our National Defence, whose image is notoriously dismal through this episode, which unfortunately will not be over until Mr. Conings is found. How can we, as politicians, cooperate with the minister who has the energy and concern to bring back resources and staff within Defence? How can we contribute to this in an atmosphere, I hope, as soothed as possible? The story of this tragic misadventure dates back to September 2019. There is already a follow-up of Jürgen Conings from the SGRS on September 3, 2019. What's pathetic about this story is that a whole series of orange lights are on. Beyond orange lights, red lights light up and the convoy continues its path until it hits a wall, which is what we know today. The report is very enlightening on this subject and I would also like to stress the quality of the report because it allows us to point out, through provisional, partial conclusions – I believe that this is the word used in the report – specific facts, objectified measures and which allow us to see more clearly. Clearer, but that is not enough! There are still serious shadows about this report, about the follow-up to be given to this report. The Minister clarified this with the responsibility of the R Committee for a whole series of events. I'd like to point out a few of them. As Wouter De Vriendt said, I am wiped out by two opposing versions at some point in the report. When talking about a November 2 contact between a person in charge - Corporal Conings - and the SMS, two versions differ. I believe that we will have to point out the urgency of finding who is right because the responsibility is enormous at this stage of the operation. In relation to the work of the prosecutor's office which does not follow up or in any case does not decide to prosecute certain facts and does not go to the stage of judicial information, it is clear that hierarchical responsibility concludes - and this is also a troubling element - that there is no more follow-up to be given to them. Yet we can ask ourselves the question. Next to the judicial act, there is the disciplinary act. There's a settlement in the army. If we've breached the rules, there may be sanctions. There is a sanctions regime. It is realized that two parallel processes exist, continue to act at the same time, but whose connections are not made. It's a matter of concern. I believe that we will have to look at why this has happened and, above all, how to ensure that it does not happen in the future. With regard to access to arms, I am particularly concerned about the elements of the report. There are trainers and instructors who are in a somewhat isolated and autonomous cell, with a hierarchical head in Evere. Unlike the intern training process, these instructors are seeking rocket launchers. They get them and no one asks why they ask for them. However, this is not foreseen in the training process. So why? Here too, I think there is still room to go further because it is a serious dysfunction, it seems to me. Rocket launchers are not babelutts! They are still specifically dangerous weapons. Even more, and it also bothers me as we speak of instructor or trainer, i.e. people who are supposed to develop and respect the rules and teach them to those they will train, he stores his rocket launchers in a room that is not intended for that. There are rules for the separation of ammunition and weapons. In addition, these rocket launchers remain far too long. The procedure would have wanted them to return more quickly to where they had been "borrowed". I would also have a question about the behaviour of this unit because it is an element of the report that bothers me. I read in the report the use per week of several thousand bullets. I think we're around 15,000 bucks a week. I wanted to ask the military authorities if it was a common practice in the functions of units like this. Is this an alarming figure or is it common? Indeed, if it was not common and given the way in which he procures rocket launchers, there are questions to ask himself. Is this simply a structural issue linked to a lack of resources, a banality of rules and a way of working between people of trust, between soldiers who value themselves and who appreciate themselves or are there more than that? It's something that bothers me and I'd like to have answers, maybe not today as the investigation continues. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am disturbed by another event. This is the famous meeting that the members of the SGRS were to attend and to which they do not attend. We get the VP a week later. It is not transmitted until a week later and, again, it is an orange light or a red light that lights up. Therefore, I would like to know the reason for this form, which seems to be unserious in the processing of information. Finally, with regard to racism and extremism in the army, it is an essential fight that we must fight together. A distinction should be made between the necessary balance between freedom of expression and facts which may be regarded as judicially or in terms of regulation. As such, I am reassured by the Minister's comments, who wishes to establish clear consultation and guidelines with the military and trade unions in this area. I think I can say here in this committee that it is absolutely not in the intentions or the objectives of anyone to start a witch hunt. I would also like to point out that as much as I can combat extremism and extremists, so much if there was a witch hunt because of support for democratic political parties, I would be indignant. Now I would like to conclude. With all that we have just discovered, not only through the structural shortage of personnel, but also through the measures that the minister wishes to take proactively and in consultation with the officials of the army - including the CHOD - we are in the presence of an outline of solutions that can restore colour - but above all efficiency and professionalism, as she has often shown - to the Defence and to restore its coat of arms. Our group will, of course, be an essential support to the minister in her task and this colossal work, which is just beginning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u7	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a little later than planned, we are taking the floor here on the first internal report that you asked for on the Jürgen Conings case and everything related to it. The report that we have been allowed to look at today was very detailed and structured, and it is a good thing. As you said, Madam Minister, as a number of other colleagues and also my group, the Flemish Democratic Party, have pointed out, there are structural problems within Defence. Such a detailed report can serve as a first step towards identifying a number of issues or identifying what has gone wrong. In this way, solutions to structural problems can also be considered. As far as we're concerned, that's not too early to see what we've all been going through here these past few weeks. I suppose it must have been so tiring for you to deal with that. In that respect, it is still small beer for us, I can imagine. The report we have read this afternoon must have felt tragic about the operation of the defence industry. As far as we are concerned, every citizen must be genuinely concerned about a number of segments of the report. I will concentrate my remarks on a number of points that have hit us throughout the report. This will show that the concerns of the citizens are justified. In the first instance, it's about communication, whether the information flow is as you wish. Mr De Vriendt has mentioned a number of examples which I will not repeat. The lack of flow of information or communication from the ADIV to the hierarchy within the Defence Department, through the OCAD to the ADIV and vice versa, is nevertheless very distressing. This is partly due to staffing problems, mostly staff shortages. We have read in the report that at some point there was not even a very important consultation by an ADIV manager. The management of the problem was at a certain point in time in the hands of an intern. This situation has made it possible to identify a very large lack of file knowledge and experience. I note in the report and in the recommendations that the working group set up within the ADIV for the revision of a number of cases has been active since the beginning of this year. I hope that the work will take place very quickly on the ground to ensure that the problems associated with the flow of information and communication are not repeated. In terms of communication, we also see huge gaps in ICT. The HRM@defence software package, which this committee has asked several times, still leaves a lot to be desired in terms of the automation of available information. Given the large workforce in the Defense Department, it would be logical for sufficient new information to be made available on a regular basis, which is hardly the case at the moment. This fact is even completely ignored. I found it very painful to read that. In some areas, I think we are still fortunate that problems have not appeared before. I had to swallow several times when I read the report. There is also much to be done with regard to cumbersome access to the database of judicial data, which can only be consulted by a few persons after a cumbersome procedure. I hope that rapid solutions in the field of automation and software solutions will also be sought outside that working group at the ADIV in order to avoid such cumbersome procedures in the future. Mr De Vriendt has described very well the security clearance and the lack of communication in this context. In the relevant recommendations in the report there is a review of the procedure for security clearances. I wonder how you will solve that in concrete terms. A second point, in addition to communication and the flow of information, concerns the procedures, in the first instance with regard to security clearance. There is, however, another element that struck me very hard, namely the storage of, access to, and security of weapons and ammunition within Defence. Apparently, there's no way to order and there's apparently no control over the delivery. There is also, in fact, no review framework for access to arms. I read that the only reason to ban access to weapons or ammunition depots must either be medical or psychological, or there really must have been an order measure taken in the past. I believe that there is still a great deal of work to be done in this area. Apparently, access to ammunition can always be viewed punctually. Apparently, there is no need for security clearance, at least not in this situation. A separate procedure has been used by the responsible person on the ground. I find it all very strange that this can apparently be carried along for so many years. Apparently, there has been no update of the access procedures for several years. I have already explained the situation with HRM@defence. This shows that only the current situation of the security clearances can be checked. There seems to be no way in which that system can be introduced that there have been prior problems with security clearances. Sorry, but a software package of this time should be able to provide all those possibilities. This is applied in industry, which is applied to all possible bodies. But apparently, it can't be done at the Department of Defense. I find that very strange. That package really needs an update or a full review, as far as I'm concerned. I have been interpolating you again recently in this committee. That package doesn't look like shit. I'd like all the attention to that. As I have already said, the procedures have apparently not been revised since 2004, so that the person concerned, and also any defence officer, can order and collect ammunition completely independently, without any form of external control or authorisation. The person concerned apparently did the management, inventory and accounting of all the ammunition and orders he placed. He did that alone and there was no one to check the person concerned at regular intervals. So he was actually a lawyer and a judge at the same time. He basically did what he wanted. The report shows that there were no more physical checks, only sporadic visual checks on the order and cleanliness of the warehouse. As far as ammunition and weapons in the Defense Department are concerned, I don't know what you think of that, but that defies all imagination. As I said, the access tickets to the ammunition depot were subject to a procedure of their own, inherited from a predecessor, automatically assuming that the applicants have the security clearance. That procedure was simply applied without asking any questions. There were no guidelines to support this procedure. The lack of staff simply did not allow a thorough check. As mentioned here by a number of colleagues, weapons and ammunition were also stored in the same local area, which is not allowed in principle. That makes sense to me. If you have a firearm at home, you never keep the ammunition in the same room as the weapon. Well, that makes sense, but apparently that's what happened to the DOD. The premises in which all this happened also had no alarm or detection system anymore and the keys of the armored cabinets in which they were stored were located in the same room and were stored in a key box with a cipher code that was apparently visible to everyone. If we all read that, then it is not surprising that an event like we have seen in recent weeks is happening. On a third point, I have already asked you a number of questions in committee and in plenary, when I interviewed you about the fight against terrorism or extremism within the army. The fight against terrorism seemed obvious to me, and, of course, the fight against extremism. The question is how you will deal with that. So far, as Minister, as well as the report, you remain very general in the wording in that regard. The term 'witch hunt' has been used here several times. That's not always wrong. We can see that there is little or no transparency in this area, so there is an automatic chance of arbitrariness. We see that you have not at any time indicated to the committee what exact criteria you or the ADIV would like to use to catalog someone as a potentially dangerous extremist and what that means. I can see that this uncertainty is also in the military. I repeat that. We also see that today in the press release that VSOA has distributed. In the military there are really a lot of concerns and concerns about this. The number of requests for help from a number of members of Defense has increased considerably, says VSOA, because one simply does not know on what basis one can be endorsed, what may and what not, what the dangers are in terms of behavior. I ask once again for clarity, not only to the committee, but also to the military, so that the term 'witch-hunting' on everything that is Flemish and right can finally be abolished. At least, if that's what I'm hoping for. These are the three points highlighted by our group in the internal note: communication, information flow, the lack of a comprehensive review framework for procedures in all areas and the fight against extremism for which no specific criterion is put forward. We take note of the decisions in the note and we take them to heart. The recommendations will be particularly important in the future. They deserve all ten, if I am not mistaken, all of them. We wonder with what staff and with what means you will correct this in the short term. It is really necessary to think in the short term, if you want to have a defence apparatus in which the people of this country can have confidence in the long term. Definitely deserves a device like DOD.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u8	Madam Minister, through the proposal you made this morning, you have allowed this debate to be organised in a calm manner. The report has been consulted both well and badly and we can have a debate that is respectful of Parliament. You have made a proposal which met this objective and I do not find in your head the obstinacy to which Mr Franken referred. On the contrary, I note rather a willingness to open up. With regard to right-wing extremism in Defence, we must concentrate our efforts to combat it, but it is not just this type of extremism. It is necessary to combat all extremism, including the Islamist ideology which, as we have seen in recent years in the Defence, has also been a reality. It is a matter of continuing to look at these dangers with one eye, on the same front and facing them in the same way, with the same will and the same mobilization. Madam Minister, you have given us the amount that has been spent to date by the Defence for the research of Jürgen Conings: €650,000. This means that if we add to this the other budgetary mobilisations, for example at the level of the Department of the Interior, we will probably reach EUR 1 million in a short time. We have a requirement in relation to this reality and the means deployed: it is time to get hold of Jürgen Conings! In this context, we demand results from both the Department of the Interior and the Department of Defence, which collaborates with them. Thirdly, what we are learning today is rather the order of confirmations of information that we already have. I must point out, because I do not know if many of us have done so, that the Inspectorate-General has produced a report of good quality and good quality with recommendations. From what we had already been able to exchange before, one of the key points is that Jürgen Conings has indeed been allowed to continue to work as an instructor to train young people in the Defence. There is confirmation that no provision has been made to limit access to weapons beyond certain security clearances. You point out a number of details and I imagine you stress them on a very voluntary basis. This is the key point of this dossier! When does it switch? At the beginning of February, from the moment that the OCAM transmits information on the fact that not only a somewhat crazy extremist is being dealt with, but a level 3 listed individual on the OCAM list in terms of threat. It's huge! And then you point out that the SGRS didn't go to the meeting. That's where I'm rocking. We are not talking about the town planning service in the communes, for which I have a great deal of respect, but we are talking about the military intelligence services of a country that does not go to the meeting of this task force, then which takes several weeks before transmitting the information internally. I have a little experience in this Parliament. If the R Committee report confirms the information we have today in the General Inspection Report, how can we imagine for a second that the SSRS hierarchy can remain in place? How can we imagine for a second, after such mistakes, that nothing will change at the head of this service? As you indicated, we are halfway through the investigation work. Of course, we will have to wait for the report of Committee R to have a certain amount of information. But, if it were to be confirmed, it would be impossible for it to be otherwise. It is good to make a number of recommendations. We also drafted them with Georges Dallemagne in the committee of inquiry Attentats, precisely in relation to this fluidity of information between the services which had to be met. What is the point here, finally, of the information to be exchanged between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the intelligence services? That is what was asked at the end of the report. But there is still something lacking in terms of recommendations. I also think that if we have recommendations at the level of the Defence Committee to make at any given time, this is the point about the fact that neither the minister nor the political level has been informed. As a reminder, I refer to this question put by Mr Defossé on 20 April 2021. You repeated the dates! At the beginning of February, the SGRS is aware of this. The OCAM is informed. As for the Sûreté, I don't know. We will probably know at the end of the work. However, everyone knows that Mr. Jürgen Conings represents a level 3 threat. As for you, while all this has been known since February, you come here on 20 April 2021 saying that everything is under control. It will therefore also be necessary, in the context of the recommendations, to require these services, which have been heavily involved, to provide politicians with information of such crucial importance. It is an element on which we will naturally be able to return. I don't think we can draw any definitive conclusions yet today. Thank you for the exchange and serenity of this work. I believe that today's day highlights even more a number of doubts and suspicions that we had about the seriousness of the situation. What happened in the intelligence service is even more serious than I thought. The consequences will have to be drawn and the responsibilities will have to be pointed out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u9	Madam Minister, I must confess that it is a good report for me, because the inspection services have done a lot of work in the short term, but have also, above all, had the courage to show and admit the vulnerability of Defence in this dossier. That's important. The study of the internal services of Defense is important. The judicial investigation currently taking place is at least as important in order to know whether the person concerned acted alone, which I hope he has received from third parties. Of course, disciplinary investigation is also important. The most important thing that has just been discussed is that you have also referred to it and, yes, it is likely to cost a lot of money. The security is that the person concerned can be found and, if possible, without any casualties. For me, that is even the case with the important judicial investigation and the important internal investigation that is under way. The report reads like Murphy's law. When I read it, I am somewhat stricter in decision-making than I read in the conclusions of this preliminary report. It is about more than a sum of things that have gone wrong with a limited impact, which have resulted in it becoming a major incident. No, things have also gone wrong with a big impact, which, of course, led to that big incident. It cannot therefore be said that they did not know. It cannot be said at all that they could not have known. That's part of the problem. Just now, a speaker said it wasn't just the DOD. He's gone. That's right. It's not just DOD. That's very clear. The recommendations will therefore also have to go further. You have rightly referred to the points of reference that have been learned from the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on the attacks, some of which can be re-used and which are not just about defence. The internal report also shows that in this case it is mainly a question of defence. The dismissal was not there because it had not been proved by the Justice Department. It was proven, but the Justice Department ruled that discipline and four days were more than sufficient and that there was therefore no need to prosecute. We find that, despite the evidence, the data subject did not end up in the judicial database. That's part of the problem. A security clearance which is withdrawn and whose information is only passed on months later is a fundamental problem. When I hear you say that we need to do something about this, we support you in that, Madam Secretary. Very many people on ordinary assignments, but also those with a job that is sensitive from the point of view of security, know how long it takes to obtain a security clearance. If one loses it, even if one does not exercise a function which requires security clearance, such as Mr Conings, then that is a major problem. As you rightly said, something must be done about this. There aren't hundreds of soldiers on the OCAD list. The vast majority of military personnel perform their exemplary function brilliantly, in difficult circumstances and with limited resources. The one that gets on the OCAD list level 3, we can keep an eye on it. This is a preliminary report, and I would like to mention what still has to be done in the additional investigation before the inspection services draw up their final report. In particular, it concerns the lack of clarity in the preliminary report, which was rightly pointed out. This man was given a sepot, a disciplinary sanction, and rightly not a small one. He entered the OCAD list and was rightly discussed with the Local Task Force of Limburg because he is a security problem. They are absent, after which an investigation starts which does not go on in a very crucial period, namely in the spring, when he may have had all the things in mind that he eventually did. If there are different versions, then that's a problem. Why has it not been investigated further, despite the fact that it has been discussed by the Local Task Force? This requires more in-depth investigation by the inspection services before we finish. Colleagues have rightly referred to the access to, detention and surveillance of weapons. I am one of the few to become an ancian who has still been allowed to do military service. It was then brought to our attention that we should not be a millimeter away from our FAL weapon. What was possible in this case is a fundamental problem. If a final report is to be drawn up and it explicitly states that certain rules in this area have not been followed, this cannot be without consequence, out of respect for the thousands of people who follow the rules strictly. That is my absolute conviction. Parliament must now, together with you, Madam Minister, start working on the recommendations that we have already received in the report and which we have all approved in Parliament in response to the terrorist attacks. Madam Minister, the senior officers I am taking advantage of their presence must undoubtedly start to monitor and supervise arms, especially heavy weapons as in the present case, so that in future there will be much stricter treatment in each depot. Let's hope Jürgen Conings was a lone actor. The OCAD and the State Security have tools on lone actors. They have to work together on this, because watching lone actors is the hardest, inside and outside the army. It's about our safety tout court. We just heard about the automatic push. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the Crossroads Safety Bank and the flow of information on security risks to all safety-related services, including the military. We really need to make progress in this regard. That includes, but not only, your authority, Madam Secretary. It's a collective power. Finally, I come to right-wing extremistism, or rather extremism tout court. There is religious extremism. There's right-wing extremism. There's the biker gangs. You have spoken harsh words from the outset and rightly so. A colleague just mentioned freedom of expression. It is extremely important, but in the case of security functions there are limits to freedom of expression and opinion. I want to respect the freedom of expression of people working in security services, for the government, for the protection of others, their fellow citizens, but they should also limit them. Precisely what we pay them for with taxpayers' money, in particular guaranteeing security, should not be put at risk. I think that's crucial. You have rightly pointed this out and we must be very strict. That goes beyond changing codes of conduct. There are limits for a soldier, a policeman or a magistrate. The vast majority respect those limits, let us be quite clear about that. For those who do not, there is no place in the security services, such as the army. This requires education, guidance and control. We need to get to work on this, regardless of the search for the person concerned. We're gonna get to work on that. Madam Minister, I hope, together with the many soldiers and other people in the security services, that the person concerned can be arrested as soon as possible, so that he can also be called to justice for judgment. I hope this can happen without casualties.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u10	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have just read the very thorough, detailed but very clear and clear report, for which we thank you. In particular, I would also like to thank the general inspection within the Ministry of Defence for producing such a report in such a short space of time and to enable us to conduct the debate with full knowledge of the facts. It was sometimes difficult to get through the terminology, but fortunately there was also a glossary for the abbreviations. That promoted reading. Thank you also to the services of the Chamber for making that possible. Practically that is not always obvious either. It is of course what it is: 650,000 euros. That is currently the cost to the Defense Department for the search for someone who disappeared from the radar on 18 May with a lot of weapons. The report makes it painfully clear that there are indeed many shortcomings, all of which ultimately led to the situation we are in today. It's a multitude of structural problems within the Defense Department. There is the deficiency and rigidity of certain procedures. There's the unfortunate flow of information, including within the DOD device. That's not only within the Defense Department, but also between the Justice Department, the OCAD and the Defense Department. Finally, there is also the systematic underestimation and laxity of the threat of the extreme right. Those are actually the four things that are the common thread through that report. It also reveals the pain points. I haven't been a member of the Defence Committee for a long time, but if you try to explain that to Jan Modaal, for example, he assumes that a security clearance also means that withdrawal doesn't mean access to weapons or ammunition, regardless of whose security clearance is within Defense. So it doesn't seem that way. Each military within the Defense Department is supposed to handle and handle weapons and ammunition in a responsible manner. In that sense, in the case of Jürgen Conings, it is irrelevant that his security clearance had been revoked. After all, he didn't even need that authorization to get access to that ammunition and weapons depot. Before and after his transfer, the information on Jûrgen Conings was already known to the ADIV. This also applies to the 28 other soldiers on the ADIV list who are known to have extreme right-wing sympathies or were members of obscure extreme right-wing clubs such as Blood, Soil, Honor and Trouw or the Flemish Legion. It was also known that Jügen Coning had given shooting exercises to the Flemish Legion. If that information was known, then I find it scratching that no more alarm bells went off and that information did not flow to the General Staff of Defense or at least to the commander of his unit, despite the fact that his security clearance had been revoked. None of that happened. I also find it shocking that when someone moves from security level 4 to level 3 and is also known as a potentially dangerous extremist, that information does not flow directly to, for example, the Chief of Military Intelligence. This seems to me to be a point of work which can hopefully be avoided in the future. In this way there can also be shorter playing on the ball. All the other cases I noticed in the report have already been discussed extensively. I will not repeat it. What I would like to mention is the fact that we must not slip into a situation similar to a witch hunt. We must remain vigilant about this. It is not so much a question of the fact that some soldiers may have a particular political mindset, but rather of the fact that borders must be defined. From the moment soldiers send hate messages to the world via social media, inciting hatred, making racist statements, clearly being members of extreme right-wing organisations or organizing shooting exercises, a border is crossed. That must be the border, if that border is to be crossed as a military one, its screening and follow-up justified and, if necessary, sanctions. In certain cases, it is also appropriate to withdraw a security clearance, but it is certainly necessary to avoid that person still having access to ammunition and weapons. I think this should be an important lesson for the future. The report also showed that several army commanders stated that they did not have a real framework to take appropriate measures. Even there the finger is laid on the wound. This is also included in the recommendations. In that sense, I think it is a good and methodological report. The questions we have asked ourselves are also addressed. You have already taken measures and announced them. The ADIV will be reinforced by 81 staff, who you will mostly recruit within the army itself. I believe that it is a good thing to provide for short-term reinforcement, but in the long term it will be necessary to look for certain profiles in order to strengthen the intelligence services and to carry out this work properly. Of course, I do not want to question the capacity of the military who are present for this work, but it seems logical to me, with a view to professionalisation, that the appropriate profiles should be recruited later. That's my specific question. Has anyone thought about that? Is that in the docks yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u11	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you, the CHOD and the colonels who accompany him, for being here and giving us the opportunity to look at the document carefully in peace, despite the somewhat comical scenario. If I remember one case from the document, it's a clear proof that the DOD really wants to get rid of what happened and what happened. This is clearly noticeable throughout the text. The problems are exposed without cans or blush. It also concludes with clear conclusions and recommendations, which is only positive. It is also positive that it does not identify people, but that the structural problems are referred to rather than looking for scapegoats. It has already been pointed out that this is a very important point in the text. The text has the value of clearly exposing the structural problems. Mr President, I shall be brief. The structural problems are fairly broad and fairly frequent. First of all, we cannot ignore the fact that, through the text, it is quite clear that there are clear divisions between the services, especially between those who have to deal with personal problems. These are the HR service, the ADIV and in the case of Mr Conings also the Land component. We note that there are divisions between these services and there is no or insufficient flow of information. That is a first structural problem. Another structural problem is kicking in an open door, because that is the problem of defence in general. We are now focusing on the ADIV, but we must not forget that it is a problem of defence in general. That's the staff problem. Madam Secretary, you indicated in French that there is not enough people and that there is not enough experience of the people present. You have made a very fair point on this point. This is a second structural problem, which unfortunately there is not only the ADIV but also the Defense Department. We must pay attention now. I share Mr De Vuyst's view, which is not so common, namely that we now have to watch out for the cannibalisation of over 80 staff in other services and that we risk temporarily resolving the problems of the ADIV by cannibalising other services. Crisis situations call for crisis measures. If this is a temporary measure, we will of course give all our support to it. However, we must be careful not to dampen wells by creating other wells. Does it have anything to do with the personnel problem? I don't know. This is a causal link which must be demonstrated. However, the report also clearly shows a lack of follow-up to the ADIV. It may have something to do with the lack of staff. This will probably even play a role, but the Committee I will have to determine whether there is a real causal link between this lack of staff and the lack of follow-up to the ADIV, which is undisputed. They didn't know, but they should at least have known. I think this is the conclusion of this report. At some point it was said that it was 60 pages and that it wasn't really highlighted that he was level 3. Whether it was 60 or 600 pages, if one military at 25,000 as level 3 is high, one should have known and should have flowed up. Of course, the ADIV is not helped by this lack of staff, and I am almost certain that this will be further clarified, but not by the evolution of staff that the Minister has also mentioned. One in seven every year, that's huge. The ADIV is also not helped by the procedures and resources at its disposal. For example, it has been known for a long time that the rules on security clearance are problematic. If I understood correctly, the man was still active in the military police and there might be a problem with his function if he lost his security clearance. He was active as manager of the ammunition depot for the Pre-Deployment Training cell and that was no problem. I think that everyone is well aware that this is a huge challenge and that this is not a repeatable issue, but also a positive one. Not only is the facts mentioned, but the Defense Department was also in the process of rewriting those rules. I think that's important. DOD wasn't just looking at that without being aware of that problem. They were already rewriting those rules, but unfortunately they were not ready in time. Finally, structuralally, with regard to the lack of weapons management procedures. For me, that was a new element. I have come across a lot of things in the document that I already knew, from press leaks but also from other sources, but the issue of arms management was relatively new to me. The fact that rocket launchers were purchased that weren't even needed, but in which they were interested, it's quite weedy that soldiers are interested in this... is a clear proof that something goes wrong in those procedures in the area of control in that hierarchy. A number of structural problems have been clearly identified. I think that this is a clear task and that this document has the merit of giving a clear mandate to you, Madam Minister, to the CHOD sitting next to you, and to his Defence staff, but also to us, Members of Parliament, to examine what has happened here, so that we can avoid this kind of situation in the future. There is a need to work on various issues, on staff, on resources, but also on procedures to avoid situations of this kind. The document has the merit of making the recommendations and conclusions so clear that we really have a basis for getting to work to prepare for the future. After all, a lot happened in the short term. We had the fire first. That is not your responsibility, although you have just been put on the spot in a more comical manner. Now we have the case of Kings. That too is not your responsibility. However, it is your responsibility to prepare the future, Madam Secretary. We'll help you with that. Procedures are needed to deal in the future with all the situations we have now experienced. Defence is faced with a huge shortage of personnel and a huge outflow. We're gonna recruit 10,000 people in four years. That is a huge task, and we need to put in place structures and procedures as soon as possible that can avoid this kind of story in the future, for the military who are already there, but also for the 10,000 people we are going to recruit in the next few years. I look forward to the continuation of this work. This morning I was very disappointed and it is good that we have done this. The afternoon was a lot more constructive. I see this as the start of a great deal of work for you, in which we will support you, but also for Parliament to be able to avoid these situations structurally in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u12	Madam Minister, thank you for your explanation and for the information we have received through that report. I am glad that we have discussed the content here tonight, because this morning's circus on the so-called press leak was one of the problems in the file. We needed correct information. With half the information, we're nothing. In the report I read a great deal about the military involved, about Mr Conings, his background, and his military career, which has made a lot of twists and turns. What I also clearly read in the report is that there is no indication that he would not have had a chance of guidance after his foreign missions. That was often said by one of my colleagues, even earlier. Obviously, it's not. Those odds have definitely been there. What I see, too, is a military course, which has not gone without incident. A number of things have happened over time. Because of a lack of communication, they have not always been put together. What's very important to me is that this man doesn't symbolize anything. Today, he mainly casts a huge stain on the many military, who do their job. What the report offers us is indeed an overview of the causes. If one case goes wrong, things usually go wrong. They have made sure that we are where we are today. Communication is a common thread, both internal and external communication. I think it is sufficiently clear that it was especially wrong when the man was identified as a Level 3 OCAD threat, a scoop for a military of our country. At that time, the communication was absolutely wrong, whether it was about push messages, the fact that a 60-page report is apparently not clear enough or the fact that the ADIV was not there. I hope that the Committee I report will give us more clarity on this, because this could have been avoided at that time. Communication also goes wrong when it comes to externals. There was talk about the parquet that at some point didn't do the communication it had to do. I'm assuming that if there's a problem with a security service, that security service will be notified. It is important that he can then get on with it. I have the impression that didn't happen here. Further research may also be useful in this area. Finally, there is the communication on security clearance. In my view, security clearance seemed to me to be a very logical instrument. But now that I see how it is applied, things have become less clear to me. The withdrawal of a security clearance has less far-reaching consequences than I thought; despite the lack of security clearance, the man could still do a lot of things. I also see that screening for a person's security clearance can take a very long time. In the meantime, anything can happen in the head of someone like that. I wonder whether we should not play faster on the ball in that respect either. There's another red wire. I note that the Defense Department was confronted with a number of issues that may not have been sufficiently known. I read in the report that there is a policy on drugs, but that it is not yet clear how to deal with the extreme right. The facts are established, but one does not know what to do with them. That's a new thing for the Defense Department. The OCAD report is a new one for the Defense Department, which she has no experience with. That is also logical, because the list of terrors does not of course exist for very long. Similarly, the withdrawal of a security clearance has not yet occurred. So I have the impression that, despite the weakening, our security services have worked. They have really managed to map the insecurity, but then too little has been done about it. So they were able to get a look at the threat, but because of a lack of communication it remained there, which is, of course, a regrettable finding. The report states that Jürgen Conins made racist statements on facebook, but that he regretted it, removed his profile and was punished. But of course that is not enough, because those ideas do not just go away. We need to focus more on this. That has absolutely nothing to do with a witch hunt. It's about extreme ideas. As Mr Verherstraeten said, the Defense Department must protect us and not the other way around. So it is important that we map people with extreme ideas well. The recommendations state that the policy framework on extreme ideas would best be updated. I have a strong impression that there really needs to be an extra effort on this. Of course, leaflets about social media from 2015 do not make any sense, because social media does not stand still. That's too fast. One final point of interest concerns the instructors. They have an incredibly important role in the Defense Department. We've seen how things went wrong in Marche-les-Ladies before. I understand that this has something to do with staff shortages and that this sometimes means making choices. I therefore believe that you are on the right track, Madam Minister, by saying that the problem can be solved for a great deal by finding many and good people to strengthen different services. That path must indeed be followed so that a combination of circumstances and errors, like here, does not result in a threat situation, as we know it now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u13	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for this report. First of all, I will have a comment on the methodology. We could have avoided such a day if we had worked properly from the start. Frankly, this is a recommendation for the future. This is not the first time there has been this game with Parliament. I think we should simply have access to this information. You see that in the various speeches today there was nothing dangerous or serious to be able to access this report. I think this is important especially in cases where there are serious failures in the flow of information. I think that we should not repeat what can happen at the political level. I think this needs to be done for the future. Secondly, it is an important and useful first report and it is a report from the General Inspectorate of Defence. I would say that this is an internal report even if it is hoped that the General Inspectorate of Defence will work independently. It is a report which gives us a series of indications both, as other colleagues have said, of serious, deep structural failures, even more impressive in the end than those that we could have imagined, very discouraging in fact, I imagine, for the personnel themselves who must first be confronted with these structural failures, but also for the hierarchy, the CHOD. I guess it shouldn't be easy to work under conditions like these, but it does indicate how failing our military intelligence service is today. One can imagine that, from an example such as this, there may be, in other areas, very important difficulties for the SMS to work on. I therefore think that there is a real political responsibility not to have seen this. It is not only your responsibility, but there is a clear political responsibility to have an intelligence service that is in such a serious and also deficient state, especially after our commission of inquiry in 2016, 2017. I think that at that time we had asked a lot of questions, with some colleagues here, Mr Ducrame, Mr Verherstraeten and others. We had done the diagnosis and the assessment of the deficiencies, the difficulties and what had to be done. I'm not saying nothing has been done. A series of initiatives have clearly been taken, but they are far from being taken into account. We're far from the point of view when we see the state of our military intelligence service. It is extremely serious because it is our collective security that is at stake. I ask and reiterate my request for close follow-up to the recommendations of the 2017 Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry because a series of comments that we are making here and a series of recommendations that we made at the time. I therefore believe that, rather than stuttering regularly, political action should be taken and these recommendations implemented. This is truly an emergency today and of crucial importance. Then I hear that there are individual responsibilities. It's not up to me to point them out today. I don't want to give the impression that we were flinging a few lampists. I am not saying that this is the case because we do not yet have all the information and we do not yet know everything that has happened. We are awaiting further reports. However, to understand that within the SGRS itself, an investigation is stopped through a steering committee which itself would not be informed of the fact that an investigation is under way and that this individual would be level 3... Frankly, there are things that I think are incomprehensible and difficult to admit in terms of responsibilities and flow of information. We have repeated it to the envis and it is crucial: I want to have problems of means and human resources, but, finally, there is only one person to follow at level 3. I hear everything I'm told about the 80 people coming, the army deployed today, but there was only one person to follow. One! Here too, it seems to me that there is a lightness, a complacency, a let go and even sympathies for what it represented. It's extremely disturbing. I would like to know what level of knowledge we had of this type of laissez-faire, of letting go, of trivialisation, of very serious problems for the Defence. We'll have to learn from what happened. It seems to me to be very important. This is the issue of the circulation of weapons. Mr Verherstraeten called him back. I did my civil service at Médecins Sans Frontières, so I don't have his knowledge of weapons. But it is true that it is impressive to think that weapons can be removed, like this, from an armament store, from an armory. We don't even have to systematically record the weapons we withdraw. Looks like rocket launchers are circulating. It is very frightening to think that these weapons could be – and this is the case with Jürgen Conings – at the disposal of people who could use them against our security. You're saying you're setting up working groups. I ask you to act quickly. You don't have to commission this kind of thing. Very quick decisions must be made. It is about our immediate security in the face of this type of individual. We should not have lengthy discussions today on the need not to allow these weapons to circulate. Several mechanisms should protect us and avoid leaving them at the disposal of individuals who could sow terror. Finally, I turn briefly to the question of freedom of expression. This is a very sensitive issue. I ask you to be careful about this. The problem was not so much freedom of expression as the lack of serious consideration of a clearly identified threat to our security. Some people explain in a report that it is not up to a person in charge of the hierarchy to go check what is happening in the databases. Again, there were not a thousand initiatives to take. It seems to me quite obvious, when exercising certain responsibilities, to go and see which individuals are to be monitored because they represent a threat. It was indeed a danger to our security, which had been clearly identified and someone ready to act, who had identified targets for the purpose of murdering them. I hear you can't say anything. There are laws to that effect. They must be implemented, and above all they must be implemented quickly – just as threats must be identified without delay. This is one of the huge problems we are watching with the Internet. Most individuals who make such threats are already subject to the law, but it is not enforced. Threats exist, but they are simply not taken seriously enough. Let us already complete this task, and I think we will have done much of the work then.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, all the groups have been able to express themselves, but two colleagues would like to add something, Mr Defossé and Mrs Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u15	Mr President, I had already thanked the minister earlier, but I would like to do so again because I find that today it has been shown that Parliament can be respected, majority as opposed. Thank you for that. I also believe that we are gaining efficiency in this debate now that we all have more or less the same level of information. This report which we have been able to read is a good report, but it is, of course, a report which is very interesting in several ways, first of all with regard to the SGRS. We've talked about it many times. We find ourselves with a sub-staffed service, being reorganised with a great turnover, loss of experience, computer problems. In short, the state in which you and the SSRS hierarchy recovered the service, with this underinvestment under the Vandeput era, could only obviously lead to huge mistakes, as we see them today. There is therefore a clear urgency to take over this service because it is a service that must protect the population from such and other cases. We can only see that there is a huge flaw in the shield. Today, people are in danger and must hide because their lives are threatened. This is obviously unacceptable. We therefore hope that the run of this right-wing extremist, a member of Vlaams Belang, will be able to end as soon as possible and that there will be no victims. If this were not the case, this story would obviously still shift into a completely different dimension. It is also a report for the Defence regarding the procedures, the communication or the absence thereof. Let's add, of course, the communication between the SGRS and Defence and the Conings officials. I don't necessarily want to repeat it, but different versions. That's disturbing. I hope that we only have a different interpretation of the same conversation and that we have no lies, which would be something else. It is therefore absolutely necessary to clarify this situation. With regard to the withdrawal of authorizations, I must admit that I do not understand: how is it possible that, in such a case, no follow-up is planned? We've already said that on several occasions. The information is transferred to the Earth Component but nothing happens afterwards. I think it still has to awaken reflexes somewhere. A withdrawal from a security clearance is not nothing! This should awaken internal reflexes, alarms. Clearly, this has not taken place and it is very challenging. In addition, my colleague De Vriendt has already pointed out a series of additional shortcomings on information that does not pass, investigations that are being stopped because of a shortage of staff, etc. I can only agree with this general astonishment throughout the committee. We all heard the same surprises. Something else surprises me. I do not imagine that Conings's comments were only made outside the barracks, only on Facebook or in a private setting. Beyond the complaints and follow-up by the intelligence services, I imagine that there were incidents that should have alerted even those who were not aware of his file. They should have thought that this guy was talking about illegal things and wondering if they should talk about it and whether the hierarchy would take this alert into account. That is worrying, and I said it already in April, that the hierarchy and all the military, whatever their rank, must be made aware of this issue. We need protocols. They don't exist and we don't know how to respond to this kind of problem. This must never happen again. Reports must be systematically made in case of illegal statements. As far as hierarchy is concerned, I wonder what the consequences are for those identified as having responsibility in this case. I am not asking for anyone's head, but if any mistakes have been made, they must no longer be possible in the future. Corrective measures, such as reorganizations or training, will therefore have to be taken to prevent this from happening again. I was stunned reading the passage on the tracking of the stores and the stock of weapons. This report shows how much there is an incredible flaw. It is clearly easier to have access to weapons than to intelligence databases. It's still disturbing. How is it possible that there is no register, no control, that the rules and protocols have not been followed, including for heavy weapons, and that a person, even an instructor, can have access to a rocket launcher on request? It's totally amazing! It must never be possible again. If there's a place where you need rigor, it's that place. Minister, I am reassured that I heard that the regulations were under review and that a security clearance would be required to gain access to arms and ammunition stores. I hear that lessons will be learned and I hope that this will be followed by concrete and immediate effects. We'll take care of it. I would also like to say a few words about the flight this morning. This morning, I was uncomfortable, not to say furious. It was Mrs. Jadin who said she was furious. I was, too, but I didn't say it like that. By the way, this morning I also heard colleagues attacking and insulting the newspaper in question. It is a typical reflex of the far right to attack freedom of the press, but I would like to return briefly, with firmness, to this because it shows how important the subject we are dealing with is. That is what this is about: to fight against those who want to put an end to our democracy, no matter who they are. It is to be able to fight against those who attack, including freedom of the press. The fault, if there is a fault, is of course among those who are responsible for this leak, and it is not the newspaper. The newspaper is just doing its job. To go back to the leak, I don't think you're in charge in the firm. I really don't see how much interest you'd have in this kind of leak. So it comes from the Defense and it's an additional symptom of the state of the department. We will be attentive to the results of your investigation into this leak. But by force, it will end up doing a lot of investigations at once. Today, we expect you to act. The recommendations of the report already list a series of them. Somewhere, for my part, I am reassured because I know, by hearing you, that these acts will be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u16	Mr President, Madam Minister, it is true that this morning I was angry, but I can also recognize the greatness of a minister who accepts the necessity and respects Parliament. That is what you have done by giving us the opportunity this afternoon to read this very interesting report. This now allows me to do what I intended to do, that is, point out the elements that will have to change to allow what is happening today, which is dramatic and which is also sad for the image of Defence, to serve a better, to give a positive image of Defence in the future. That's what we all want, finally. We wish to support those who fight for our democratic values, who serve the army with loyalty, according to the oath they have taken. It is useful that we can work this way. I'm still disappointed, despite everything, in relation to these leaks. I cannot conceive or tolerate this as a parliamentarian. I also hope that there will be full clarity on this matter and that a review can be carried out with regard to the dissemination of these important elements. It is abnormal that this is happening and I do not want it to be the case in the future, certainly not in the Defence, which is our power in regal. First of all, I will start with Mr. Conings' security clearance component and this application for clearance withdrawal that occurred on file. We have learned this: with its transfer, this security clearance still existed. It was still valid, but an investigation had already been conducted by the SGRS. It was, if I remember correctly, in August last year. Indeed, some elements proved to be much more intriguing about him. His security clearance has been withdrawn by the SGRS for very important and important references to this file as well. They related to his proximity to the middle of the far right, to the expressions he maintained. This information was therefore passed on to the Earth Component, but was not subsequently shared. For example, the Human Resources Branch has not been informed of this withdrawal. Why? We learn it every day and it's important. You must never stop learning. I read that Mr. Conings' position at the time of his transfer did not, anyway, require this specific empowerment. The consequence of this withdrawal of clearance had an impact only on information that could be classified and not on the handling of and access to weapons. It's a real problem. I point that out in relation to what we will have to put in place at a later stage. In addition to the need for better flow of information, there is also a need to clarify what a withdrawal of authorization means. It is also mentioned in the report: every military manipulating weapons, of course! But I think that, given the ongoing investigations of one person, much more concrete action should have been taken in caseu. Then, Madam Minister, comes the whole aspect of racist speech and the proximity of Mr Conings to extreme right-wing circles. Here too, I hear and read that many things were already known. A judicial investigation had even been initiated and closed initially, not because of a lack of evidence but because of the incompetence of the court which had to rule on the matter. As a result, Defence management had also not been accompanied by adequate effects, which is also a problem and an aspect on which we must work together with the Justice FPS. Why? Because although these statements exist and although there is a unit within the SSRS specifically responsible for observing acts of all kinds of extremism, there are no adequate procedures to be able to sanction them at any given time. There are protocols, and this is often the case, for the possession of drugs, for example. It's not a good thing either, but there's nothing there. Therefore, I think we absolutely need to work on this, minister. With regard to the circulation of information on Mr. Conings's stamping, which was transmitted by the OCAM to the SGRS, there were obviously nudes. One realizes that a replacement occurred, that some things could not be done, that, in the end, it would even be a trainee who should have dealt with the investigation but that he probably did not have the necessary experience to pursue it. This procedure is finally stopped to investigate another procedure. This takes place well before the OCAM transmits information on Mr. Conings' national security record and potential danger. It's not right. It's a huge problem. I am told that reports have been prepared, but that they have obviously not been transmitted and that they have not received the necessary filter to elicit a reaction. I am not here to give advice, but there is also the judicial data bank that any accredited person can consult. That was also the case with these agents. It must be noted, however, that no consultation was undertaken with respect to a person already under investigation. It's absolutely disastrous. I have one question left, Madam Minister, about the follow-up given after the discovery of the other extremists who have since been identified in the Defence. It is necessary to provide answers very quickly and, above all, to act quickly. I note today that the structure is incomplete and does not function effectively enough to prevent this kind of situation in the future. We'll have to get to it quickly. As I told you, minister, you will always find me at your side in this work. I come to this famous Facebook group, which has received a lot of support. I hear that many members of the army are involved. It worries me and pains me. How can we better inform and explain? What is the democratic role and responsibility of a defence officer? It is important to think constructively about it. In the recommendations, I read that reference was made to the establishment of a code of conduct and a limitation of freedom of expression. And then I say, "Achtung! Be careful!" You will not be surprised, minister, if you are to have such a fundamental freedom, it is necessary to ensure that a true balance is maintained. This balance must take into account both the function and the duty of neutrality that a citizen who is committed to Defence must fulfil and the values that he or she stands for, the position that he or she holds and the responsibility that he or she has and the opportunity to express himself or herself. Let us be very clear, however, that extremism has no place in this structure and will never have one! Minister, I hope we will all work together in a constructive way. We are not afraid to do this exercise or to work day and night if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u17	Mr President, I will certainly not try to answer all the questions, because there are far too many. I am not going to try to answer all the questions, but I am, of course, equally unhappy about the content of the report and the errors that have been revealed in it. On the other hand, I am pleased with the conclusions and recommendations that will naturally enable us to act and improve what we need to improve in our organization. I myself have also found that we have missed several opportunities throughout the whole process to take measures to prevent what has happened in the end. There were at least two moments between August and November 2020 and certainly earlier this year, in March and April, where we could have taken action and removed Jürgen Conings from office, which would have prevented the events of 18 May. The causes are long and broad in the report. I do not, of course, like reading that report, but it does give us the opportunity to make improvements. The main areas on which we are going to work are the flow of information within the SGRS and the staff. This can be explained, but we will have to work on processes, processes, coordination mechanisms, reporting times, automatic reporting mechanisms in the hierarchy. We need to work in all these areas. We must continue to work on digitalization not only within the intelligence service but also throughout the Defence with digital means that allow us to exchange certain information more seamlessly, particularly in personnel management. We must also work on the control of weapons and ammunition in a second domain. That has certainly been discussed here. However, I would like to stress that the situation of the cell PDT, a small cell of six people, cannot be generalised to the rest of the defense. The size of the cell has indeed allowed three people to access both the ammunition depot and the weapons depot. What is abnormal and what we will certainly have to correct is that at the same time one of those people can also manage all the ammunition. In any case, we are trying to divide that into larger units, at least that is what we have to do. Those are the two major areas that we will certainly be working on very quickly. In the area of personnel management, we naturally face gaps across Defence. Massive recruitment will help us. However, some services are indeed fragile and must be based on the single point of failure, which is found throughout Defence. It is a fact that we will have to identify priorities. Both my predecessor and myself, we quickly set priorities – well before last year – for the recruitment and training mechanisms of our staff, but above all those that have a bearing on security. I am thinking in particular of the day-to-day work in our various departments. Are we going to straighten this out? No, because it depends on the influx of returning staff. Changes or management of personnel within Defence are, of course, a huge challenge that we face on a daily basis. Despite the priority we give to all services and processes related to security in the broad sense, it remains a difficult issue. In addition, there is also a shortage of staff in one of those security services, the security service by nature. The number of 80 people has been mentioned several times today. We want to achieve this, of course in a controlled way, but it is not the case that we will transfer those 80 people from one or different services to the ADIV tomorrow. First of all, they do not all have the right profile, which we must also look at, and we must do so in a controlled way, which means strengthening a service without weakening another service. We must work towards strengthening the ADIV, but not just with military personnel. We also need to strengthen the ADIV and the rest of the defense with civilian personnel. That requires a different recruitment process. The strengthening of the security service and the rest of the defence sector is therefore an ongoing process and what is most pressing will be addressed as a matter of priority. A fourth part of our recovery plan concerns extremism policy. That is also mentioned several times this afternoon. Indeed, defence today has no structured, well-written policy on extremism. We acknowledge that. We must indeed do something about this. It doesn't belong to the Defense Department. I believe that other public services have similar problems. Some may already have solutions that can or should inspire us. In any case, we intend to think conceptually about this in order to avoid de facto opening a witch hunt against all those who have made a wrong statement, a wrong post or a wrong like on some social media channel. That is something that must be done in a more intellectual way. Of course, we will focus on this. This also has to do with behaviour on social media, communication, freedom of expression. These are things that we have already looked at, with many aspects that we will probably have to revisit from a new perspective. I also regret some of the interpretations that were expressed this afternoon when the report was read. It is wrong to think that everyone in Defence has access to the ammunition store and that it can be used as in a department store. This is naturally linked to the function of some people, including Jürgen Conings. This management of these accesses is nevertheless well described in our procedures. We must be able to respect them again, it is a fact! As regards the withdrawal of the security clearance, I have to inform you that the security officer with the Land Component has indeed responded in accordance with the standard procedures. The person concerned was indeed informed. The head of service of the person concerned was also informed and that head of service also asked the appropriate question to his superior. You, Members of Parliament, but we have also noted that there is a difference in feedback from the discussion between the Land Component and the ADIV at the beginning of November. We will try to work that out, but eight months after the facts, it may not be that easy for those people anymore. The consumption of ammunition in a small service such as PDTIA can seem enormous, very important: 15,000 munitions. It should be noted that it is the main task of this section to bring the level of fire qualification among the personnel to the appropriate level, and that this naturally requires more intensive firing exercises. The consumption of 15,000 munitions referred to is absolutely not an issue in relation to the function of this service. I probably forgot a few things. Freedom of opinion is guaranteed at the Department of Defense. Freedom of expression or freedom of communication about that opinion is, of course, somewhat more limited because we have our frameworks of values and standards, which are expected of every military person to respect them. They determine the limits of the military's expression. Of course, that's delicate to follow. We live in a very strong community in which the corps spirit is of course highly regarded. In most units there is such a thing as social control of what people do and say. It works well throughout the organization. Action is being taken against racist statements. Jürgen Conings isn't the only one who's been punished for that. There are probably other military forces against which the corps commanders act very decisively. However, it is not the first task of the ADIV to monitor all websites or all our staff's Facebook pages. That's absolutely impossible. The inappropriate expression of opinion or attitudes are, however, matters on which one tries to guard within the units. To conclude my speech, I regret even more the impression, the perception among some of you, of complacency, of let go, of laxism. I think it's quite the opposite. There are indeed a lot of people, a majority of the Defence staff – you are often the witnesses – who are investing as much as possible. But, in some cases, we are faced with a combination of lack of staff, coaching and controls, which means that, from time to time, we miss certain things. I conclude by expressing to you my will: following the current events and those of recent weeks, I am aware that we must restore the confidence you have always shown in the Defence. This is a challenge, I am fully aware of it, but the motivation remains very strong. I would like to end by saying that, following the various incidents of recent weeks, we absolutely need to work towards restoring confidence, which you have already expressed several times in the past in relation to defence. The motivation to work on this is particularly great. Thank you for this afternoon's debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have answered the essentials, but there are certainly still some questions that you are asking yourself, some inaccuracies or things that we need to go further and which are in the report. The aim is to do this work and I stand at the disposal of Parliament to go back to certain elements in a more precise way. That's what's planned. Beyond that, this will give rise to some consequences. From the moment that mistakes are proven, there will necessarily be follow-up. There will be prevention, action, reaction. I certainly don't stand at a distance, I spend my days and nights with this problem. I've been clear on freedom of expression. I said that we would follow behaviour while maintaining a balance with what concerns privacy and the opinions of people who have the freedom to express themselves in our rule of law. Like you, I want this freedom of expression. However, freedom of expression cannot always be claimed to say everything. There is indeed work to be done and it is under way. We met with the trade union delegations. We have established a number of working groups with staff and trade union delegations, including on the issue of values, the review of disciplinary regulations, the awareness of chiefs of corps who have to assess staff, as well as the revision of regulations and security measures. Thank you for taking the time to read this report and to make a detailed analysis of it. Thank you on behalf of the Defence, too. It is important that this work can be done jointly. I have heard here from many, if not all, Members, that there is a real willingness to work together to carry out the necessary actions, so that, above all, such incidents do not occur any more. Like you, we were surprised – the word is weak – by what we were able to read in this report, which, in fact, was even worse than we could have thought the first time. But it's not that... on the contrary, I think we need to redouble our efforts so that it doesn't happen again, as I said earlier, and with your help, I will be the happiest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u19	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Two more people want to say something, but I would like to finish the debate. I won't open another round. What needs to be said certainly remains to be said. Mr Francken, Mr De Vriendt and Mr Creyelman asked to speak. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u20	Mr President, I know that sometimes I can be a bit long-winded. It's been a long day, and I think everyone's tired too. However, I would like to quote a few elements in 60 seconds. Firstly, I will not continue to receive an answer to my question as to how many soldiers of the 50,000 people in the group I support Jürgen Conings there have been sanctioned. The CHOD refers to the chiefs of police, who would have done so. I'm gonna ask for figures again. I will put another question to the Minister tonight to get an answer to that. If they don't answer that 10 times, I'll ask you 20 times. Even if you don't answer that 30 times, I want to know. I've been on the phone with too many soldiers. Something's going on. I want the numbers, or that story gets bigger and bigger. Something appears on a website, which is rightly read here by the Vlaams Belang. Give us numbers and stop the Indian stories. Second, I asked about the leak in Le Soir. The Minister says you've been instructed to investigate that thoroughly. You do not answer that, and I will also ask a written question on that. Is there really a thorough investigation into who leaked that to Le Soir? I would also like an answer to the question of leaking Jürgen Coning's personal file. I will submit the questions in writing. As regards freedom of the press, Mr Defossé, you say that we cannot blame Le Soir for having published it. However, saying that the press always goes free when it publishes secret information that it has at its disposal is not correct. There have been court rulings on this, both at European level and at the Constitutional Court. These are military secrets and the freedom of the press is not absolute, just as freedom of expression in this country is not absolute. It was a very interesting philosophical debate, but it is far too late for that. That was the most important thing. I'll keep the rest for next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u21	Your 60 seconds had also passed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u22	Mr President, I would just like to double-check what the CHOD has just said. Mr Hofman, you said that in refusing to renew the security clearance, which was an important moment and trial, all Jürgen Conings' superiors were informed to the Land Component of the withdrawal of the security clearance. I read in the report that there has been a communication from the ADIV to the Land component, but that that information was then not shared with its direct superiors. I won't list the functions, they're in the report. But apparently there has been a lack of flow of information there. I may have misunderstood you earlier, but you can.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u23	Jürgen Conings briefed his immediate chief himself. That chef then asked his chief for instructions and if he should take action against Jürgen Conings. This gave rise to the conversation between the ADIV and his supervisor at the Landcomponent, where the two versions are different. They have not given rise to any action. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u24	You are talking about the meeting of 10 November 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u25	Yeah, 10 or 12 November.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u26	Madam Secretary, after reading the report, I had a strange feeling. I had the accident of being born in 1972 and thus having experienced the Dutroux era. I had to think back to that era. Everyone pointed a finger at everyone in that report, and no one's to blame. Everyone lives and works in their bubble, and within that bubble, everyone seems to have done their job. Then the conclusion is that mistakes have been made and that those mistakes will be learned from them. In fact, I draw only one important conclusion from the report, namely that one major communication cluster blunder has happened, which means that certain things have not been passed on. The consequences of this are being borne today. We can reduce that to a lack of people and resources within the Defense Department that you are certainly doing your best to make up for in some way. Hopefully that will be the case in practice. I would also like to thank the CHOD for bringing the nuance that certain colleagues seem unable to bring. You say we have to fight extremism. I fully agree with you on that. All forms of extremism, and not just right-wing extremism, must be combated. The latter is apparently very popular in Wallonia because one feels the hot breath of the PTB in the neck.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic519x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, this is where we can conclude the sitting. This morning the sitting may not have started ideally, but our way of working has enabled us to have a good exchange of views. I thank the Chief of Staff and the Minister for their presence and input. There will undoubtedly be another sequel. Reports have been announced and Parliament must also look at how the recommendations that have been made are working. You said once again, Minister, that you are available to Parliament, so I suggest that you share the reports you receive proactively with Parliament and that you involve us further. We will look at how we are going to proceed with this next stage of work.
