ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u1	Madam Minister, on behalf of the committee, I wish you and your team a fantastic 2021 and I hope for good and constructive cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, 67 different subjects are on the agenda this morning. So it's a big agenda. Prior to the questions, the Minister would like to give a brief explanation of the actualisation of the strategic plan. There are also questions on the agenda. Madam Secretary, I give you the floor for a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u2	Mr President, thank you. That does not prevent questions from being asked and I will answer them. Very quickly, in the policy note, we had already mentioned that the objective was to re-align the strategic vision for Defence. The Defence Strategic Vision of June 29, 2016 is the result of an analysis conducted in 2014 and 2015. While the main lines of the document are still current, some trends have become stronger since or are disrupting the state of the world. An update is therefore essential. In order to complete this updated analysis of the strategic environment by 2030-2040, I have taken the decision to mandate Professor Tanguy Struye of Swielande and the patented Colonel of the State-Major Éric Kalajzic in order to form, to animate and coordinate a strategic committee respecting linguistic and gender parity. It will consist of ten scholars who are known to be active in the broader field of security. The members are Sven Biscop, Ghent University, specialist in CFSP and CSDP and in security instruments; David Criekemans, University of Antwerp, specialist in global and local geopolitics; Cind Du Bois, Royal Military School, specialist in defence, economics and economic security issues. We also note Joseph Henrotin of the Centre d'Analysis et de Prévision des Risques Internationaux in Paris, specialist in technologies and strategy; Jonathan Holslag, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, specialist in Asian and European issues; Alexander Mattelaer, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, specialist in international relations, the EU and Belgian defence policy; Delphine Resteigne, Royal Military School, sociologist and specialist in leadership issues and the introduction of change; Dorothée Vandamme, UCLouvain, UMONS, specialist in terrorism; Nina Wilen, Université Libre de Bruxelles, specialist in the Great Lakes region of Central Africa and West Africa; and Caroline Zickgraf, ULg, specialist in migration after climate change. They should take the necessary initiatives and submit a report by 31 May 2021. This will serve as a basis for the political discussions in Parliament in June and not later than the first weeks of July. The military programming law will be adapted according to the results, with the aim of having a vote on the text in the House of Representatives next September. The findings of the transition team will be taken into account in the updating exercise of the strategic vision. On the basis of the document presented, I would first like to update the strategic vision until 2030. In addition, I would like to amend the military programming law in September 2021. Next, I want to broaden the strategic horizon to 2040 to anticipate future crises and conflicts and to acquire the technology with which we at least have a lead over potential rivals and opponents. The exploratory and anticipating tasks will form the basis for further work on the following exercises. The method used could indeed lead to a recurring exercise at the beginning of each new legislature. The methodology adopted for the lessons we can draw from it will be documented in the interests of transparency vis-à-vis parliamentarians from all political groups. Finally, I would like to point out that the necessary resources were entered in the operational budget of the strategic cell.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u3	Madam Secretary, my turn is my best wishes. I'm hoping for a good partnership. I had a question about what you just told me. Of course, you always have the right to make a statement for the questions. It's not about that. I shall therefore put my question, because I assume that we can respond to this, Mr President. What's the point, anyway?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u4	The Minister asked me to explain the subject in advance. There are three questions, in particular Mr Francken, Mrs Ponthier and Mr Pillen. If these three Members ask to speak, I will certainly not stop it and we will see if the Minister will reply to that further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u5	Madam Secretary, I had to find out in the newspaper what the intention was. If there are questions, it is good that there is a communication in Parliament. That's how it usually works. Now the information has been given to a newspaper or leaked, I don't know. In any case, it is appropriate for Parliament to do its job and to give the answer in Parliament. I've always tried to do that, and that's how it's supposed to be. In substance, your statement sounds good. It is, I believe, a sensible approach. You have the resources and a number of experts and expect a report by May. There will be a debate in Parliament, which I would like to hear, and in the autumn you will put both the programming law and the updating of the strategic plan on the table. We're ready for that anyway, and we'll do our homework. I'm definitely looking forward to that report, too. Your experts, I don't know all of them. I certainly seem to be able to make a more than useful contribution. You have also respected the linguistic balance, which is always wise in this bizarre country. You are also going fairly wide, because there is an expert in that research on climate and migration. I look forward to it, because it is always good to look at the big geopolitical picture from that point of view. For us, it is particularly important that the strategic vision be updated but that fundamentals be preserved. We believe that Mr Vandeput has done a very good job with this strategic vision, and we still support it. However, it is a good proposal to update the strategic vision at the beginning of the legislature, because the world is evolving very quickly. I wish you and the experts every success and I look forward to the debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u6	Mr President, first of all I would like to say that this improvisation number was imposed unilaterally. After all, it is primarily up to the committee to change its agenda. In addition, questions have been tabled on the subject. This must not, of course, prevent the Minister from explaining himself here. I suspect that our specific questions can still be asked afterwards? If that's the case, then I don't have a problem with the M.O. right now. Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for your general explanation, but there are some questions I would like to have an answer to later. The focus of the new Strategic Committee is very broad, which in itself is positive. Nor do I doubt the expertise of the members of the committee. As you have said, the results of the tasks of the transition team, which has been specifically engaged in shaping the future vision for Defence over the last one and a half years, will be included in the work of the new strategic committee. I'd like to know how far the transition team was with his work? Until now, we have not had any feedback on this in committee, except for direct feedback by a number of Members. What were the points of interest and the conclusions of the transition team? You also announce that you will be expecting the report by the end of May. I do not think it would be useful to hold a consultation with the members of the expert committee in our committee before, so that we can take note of the focus they will put on this issue. I want the necessary transparency in this respect, before and during the work of the transition committee. I hope that you will respond to this, Madam Minister, as you have given due consideration to feedback to Parliament in your policy paper on transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u7	I think it's a good thing there's continuous follow-up. That's a good thing. The strategic vision dates back to 2016. It will last five years in June. That is an eternity for the matter we are dealing with in our committee. When I learned about your initiative via the Internet and through the media, I was satisfied with it. I was a little surprised at the short-term, which is confirmed again today. It is a good thing that you can switch in the short term, but at five months, or actually four months, producing such a piece of work is not evident. It is, of course, very positive that it is also said immediately that Parliament will be able to debate this. I have two comments to make. First of all, I believe that you have chosen good experts. Some of us know better than others. But how will they have access to necessary information? Of course, it is essential that there is input from expertise on migration and climate, for example, because these themes are essential to understand what is happening and will happen in our world. However, if the strategic vision is to be continued in the short term, we must also be able to think about capacities, think about the latest military technologies, think about what needs to be done in the field of material resources. Do the experts have the assurance from their academic background that they will have access to such information? We must avoid a purely academic work which develops a number of great geopolitical and geostrategic visions. It all needs to be something more concrete. Secondly, what is the situation as regards the relationship between the ten experts on the one hand and the transition team on the other and the staff on the other? Those people are also working daily on the implementation of the 2016 vision, of your policy paper. It is very important that these people also get their say in the creation of the updated vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u8	Above all, I hear this question of collaboration. Academicians will not be alone in writing. We have planned coordination between an academician and a staff colonel. It will be necessary to count on the work provided by the academic world as well as that of the staff. It is in close cooperation that things will happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u9	Mrs Ponthier, for the record, your question No. 55012530C on the agenda has not been deleted. It is up to you to decide whether you will ask any additional questions at that time, but I suspect that we will not get that far today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u10	Mr President, it is remarkable in itself that we have a topical debate in this committee on a heritage dossier, but it also proves that such decisions cannot be taken lightly. There are a lot of local administrators in this committee and everyone knows that heritage conservation is important. It doesn't matter if it's about a church, an iconic villa, or in this case a military plane. In such decisions it is always important to think carefully about a good after-destination plan with respect for history. That respect seems to me quite logical in this case. The plane served 50 years in Melsbroek. There is a tradition that every unit of heritage is kept at its bases. There are several options for the plan itself. In Melsbroek there is a hangar where the device can be stored for the time being. There are plans with a local non-profit association and the city council to get to work on that plane. The storage, opening up to the public and the like is assured there. There are some guarantees in the short term. For the site Beauvechain I see no plan, few options and no hangar where the plane can go. In the long term, there is a plan for an extensive museum. That's okay, but that's gonna take another ten years. It's my homework to compare these two options. I have the feeling that this decision is being taken a little too lightly. Madam Secretary, you will also have made your decision on the basis of an extensive dossier. What's the plan? Is there any advice from the defense staff? I asked for this in writing, but can we have access to it? Is that a final decision? Can you give us some more information about the project planning? What about the financials? How do you look at the costs? Are there any differences between the two options I have just outlined?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u11	Madam Minister, I would also like to talk to you about this important issue, which is heating up the moods in the region of Flemish Brabant. Yesterday I paid a place visit to Dakota vzw and visited the beautiful museum, with some showpieces from aviation history such as the C-119, a beautiful aircraft. This is protected by the Flemish Community as a heritage and its location in Flanders is thus assured. I do not quite understand some of the points in the file. Firstly, on 16 or 17 September Mr Buysrogge put a question to your predecessor, Mr Goffin, to know whether there was a decision on the location of the C-130. Mr Goffin replied that he had not yet decided. Two weeks later, you are Minister and you say that you did not decide that, but Mr Goffin. I asked Mr Goffin whether he had made a decision on this dossier in those two weeks when the government was landing. I haven't gotten an answer yet, but I keep pushing, because Philippe and I, on se connaît. I'm sure I'll get an answer. If Philippe Goffin says he hasn't decided to do this at all, I think you have a problem. That would mean saying that your predecessor has decided, but he denies it, which means that you have actually decided for yourself. Please clarify this, and preferably not contradict your predecessor, otherwise it will be very difficult. Secondly, the WHI receives EUR 13 million from the federal budget to do what it does: conservation, museums and so on. The WHI is not undisputed, but apart from the WHI you say that you will give 300,000 euros to a small non-profit organisation in Beauvechain to build a hangar to accommodate the C-130. An urgent file because that hangar is urgently needed. I don't understand. I do not understand why you spend another EUR 300,000 to build a hangar in Bevekom, in addition to the EUR 13 million, while there is a place in Melsbroek. You don't have to build anything there. That hangar's here. In fact, we are building all kinds of things there, all of which have been approved in the budget. I think it's a very strange way of working. I also hear there would be some advice from the General Staff, the Defence Staff, to place the plane in Melsbroek. Is that right? Did you take that advice in the wind? Could you give us some explanation on that? I'm interested in this, so if that advice exists, can I look into it? In any case, it is very clear to us: the C-130 has a very large, historical and emotional value and belongs in Melsbroek, in any case. We will bring out all the means to get it done, but I hope you will have the courage and the courage to change your mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u12	Madam Minister, I myself am a representative of the people of Flemish Brabant, just like Mr Francken. I also have a lot of contact with the airport and the military airport. I can confirm that the people there are very displeased with the fact that the C-130 will not be able to rest there. On 6 January we heard that C-130 would move to Beauvechain. It's the last C-130, the other were sold to Sabena Aerospace. However, this C-130 was active on Melsbroek's military base for decades. That's his hometown. That's where that plane lived. Madam Secretary, I understand you made the decision on the basis of an internal report. I have requested this through a written question, but I have not yet received it. I have also asked for the figures where this C-130 has been most in Belgium over the last ten years. I'm pretty sure this will be Melsbroek. However, I am waiting for those figures. You made that decision on the basis of a feasibility study in which the different locations, being Beauvechain and Melsbroek, were weighed against each other. From well-informed and independent sources, I found out that there were actually three options in that report. Two of the three options concerned Melsbroek and one option concerned Beauvechain. Mr Verduyckt has already mentioned it, there is no plan at all in Beauvechain. He would be placed there on the tarmac, a little desolate. On the other hand, the 15th Wing, the Dakota club, has a positive project in the short term as well as in the long term, together with the municipality of Steenokkerzeel. Also the mayor is a big trigger to that file. In 2023 there could be an upgrade from the military museum. What conclusions of the feasibility study suggest that Bevekom would be a more suitable resting place for the C-130 than home port Melsbroek? Will there be expert maintenance in Beauvechain, which is present in Melsbroek, but certainly not in Beauvechain at the moment? Do you share the view that the C-130, which has Melsbroek as its home base, is an important part of that municipality and of the activities around BRUMIL?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u13	Madam Minister, Mr Vandenput has already made clear our position on the future of the C-130. I would like to hear from you your views on the further development of the WHI Air Component site in Beauvechain. What's foreseen there? What's your vision on that? How do you think you're gonna realize that? Now there is already the First Wing Historical Center, but when one speaks with the people of the WHI and with people who have a heart for it, we see a large site dedicated to the history of the air force. In itself, I do like the idea of such thematic sites. There's Brasschaat, I've been to Bastogne recently and in West Flanders there are the war crimes. I think the vision behind it is positive, but I would like to hear how you see it and what your vision of that development is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u14	Madam Secretary, I'll skip the introduction. The situation has already been outlined by colleagues. As has already been said, the news about the last C-130 is causing quite a stir. First of all, there is the agreement on the entire fleet that Defence concluded last summer with Sabena Aerospace for the acquisition of a number of aircraft. As far as that part of my question is concerned, I would like to refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u15	With my other questions I come to the real issue, in particular the future of the rest of the fleet. As said before, the last remaining aircraft would move to the First Wing Historical Center on the basis of Bevekom. A first question is why this choice for Bevekom, not by chance the backyard of colleague Flahaut, but this aside. On what basis and above all by whom was or is the decision taken? If it has not yet been taken definitively, when will it be taken definitively? The question arises as to whether the law on public contracts for the award of the latter does not apply to the latter. I hope you can answer that. A second important question is whether there are at present a cost-benefit analysis or possibly other notes that can indicate the move to Bevekom, on the one hand, and the preservation in Melsbroek, on the other. If yes, what is the result of this and what is the conclusion? What happened to the note drawn up by the Defence Staff, in which an opinion was given? Apparently, that note passed at the highest summit of defense and was approved by the CHOD. It cites a number of arguments and gives positive military advice for maintaining the C-130 in the 15th Wing on Melsbroek. In it, Bevekom, as one of the three possible scenarios, came out of the bus as the worst option. The arguments were cited earlier: the lack of a link between the location and the device, the higher cost of storage, the lack of accessibility there, the lack of expertise for maintenance, the lack of a covered stockage, appropriate capacity, etc. Do you recognise the existence of the note and its content? Mr President, can the members of the committee look at this note? Is it true that your services subsequently referred the DOD's note to the trash can and had a new note drawn up, in which Bevekom is suddenly praised as the perfect location? What's the reason for that? How do you respond to the concerns of local authorities, on the one hand, and non-profit organisations, on the other? Are you aware of the re-destination of the domain on Melsbroek, where the possible capacity is available to store the last C-130 device in adequate conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u16	Mr President, pursuant to Rule 188 of the Rules of Procedure, it is possible to speak in a topical and urgent debate. I could also intervene for a personal fact. We lend only to the rich; it is almost a debate between Brabanons: Flemish Brabant, Walloon Brabant, etc. I would just like to say that there is an unquestionably emotional dimension. The Belgian C130s worked for Belgium as a whole. Depending on the starting point, they did not work for Melsbroek. It is a decision that has probably been made by pragmatism. If we want to make it a community debate, we will do it, but we will have to incorporate a lot of things into it. The reasons why previous Governments had decided to transfer military equipment from the ground force only to Brasschaat will have to be questioned. Why did the Sea King of Coxide go to Ostend? Why didn't the Agustas stay in Bierset? Why didn't the equipment that was in Bastogne stay there? Why did he go somewhere else? One can indeed demonstrate an attachment to wanting the C130s to stay in Melsbroek and to say anything about Beauvechain. There is a museum in Beauvechain with a series of devices located there. There is a musual logic and consistency there too. You are all talking about Melsbroek, but have you given any thought to the fact that at one time a study, Mrs Ponthier, was carried out with the civilian airport in Amsterdam and other European airports which have been thinking about the location of the A400M? The study concluded that the best location of the A400M was Beauvechain. Why? Because you have here, and you know it, all the equipment that goes into operation and that's where we're going to get that equipment in operation. We did not follow this neutral scientific opinion of external and private experts and we decided to bring the A400M to Melsbroek to build hangars that cost not 300 000 euros, Mr Franken, but 400 million for new hangars with new dimensions while we could have welcomed the aircraft to Beauvechain. These hangars are no longer even the property of the Defense since they were transferred to the private sector. We don't talk about it and we don't say anything. If you want to talk about it, we can do it! Another factor, Mr Franken, is that one of the only possibilities of extending the Zaventem airport – I say Zaventem and not Brussels-National because it has less and less this national character – is on the other side of the street, where the military quarter is located to accommodate businesses. This was discussed at some point. Finally, the extension of the airport could not occur but it must never be said. One day it may be possible to do so, and we will have the same situation as that experienced by the air force staff on the other side of Boulevard Leopold II, where the NATO headquarters is now located - a free space transferred by Belgium to NATO. I'll do whatever we want. The decision here is pragmatic – I think. Finally, we are witnessing privatisation, an extension of privatisation. We saw him with Melsbroek's hangars today. Tomorrow, they may be made available to Zaventem. As elsewhere, previous governments have also decided to sell white aircraft to a private company, which will require private markets for current travel. This is what you call a defence maintenance with all its values, as a Regalian department. It's not a good policy. By the way, I believe that we must remember from time to time the historical elements and contextualize this with the policies that have been followed and which, unfortunately, could continue. I don't think that's a good solution. J'ai this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u17	That was obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u18	It's the reality, based on the figures. You know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u19	The C-130 fleet is composed of eleven aircraft. Two aircraft were dismantled in 2018. The C-130 with tail number CH-13 is scheduled for storage in April 2021. The eight remaining aircraft and the related spare parts, tools and support equipment were awarded to the company with the most economically advantageous regular commercial offer, in particular Sabena Aerospace, in a consortium with the American company Blue Aerospace. The aircraft shall be made available to this firm for the next major inspection to be carried out on each aircraft. Three of the eight aircraft were already decommissioned in 2020. In October 2021, the fourth aircraft shall be taken out of service. Eventually, the last aircraft will be transferred to Sabena Aerospace at the end of 2021. The US authorities have recently approved the transfer of the goods to the buyer and end user. Sales prices cannot be made public because of commercial sensitivity. On 26 May 2020, then Minister of Defence, Mr Goffin, decided to transfer a C-130 to the War Heritage Institute (WHI) for preservation and exhibition in Beauvechain. The Defence Staff has carried out a feasibility study on the possible locations for the last C-130 storage, in which I was presented with a detailed proposal on the vision of Defence and the WHI, regarding the location to which the device will be transferred. I confirmed the decision to hold the last C-130 in Beauvechain at the end of last year. This decision is consistent with the strategy developed by the WHI in 2019 and approved by then Minister Reynders. That strategy means that all aviation related documents managed by the WHI that cannot be exhibited on the site of the Cinquantenaire Park due to lack of space can be placed in Beauvechain. This concerns, on the one hand, pieces transferred from the Royal Army Museum into the Cinquantenaire Park and, on the other hand, pieces that are now present at other locations, such as the Depot in Landen, or on other bases. The choice of documents is still for study. In the long term, some buildings from the 1st Wing base will be made available to the WHI by the Defence Department. Given the historical context and the emotional aspects of this last C-130, I understand the concerns of the local government of Steenokkerzeel. The aircraft will be maintained by the First Wing Historical Centre, a well-known museum space that already exhibits several aircraft, welcomes around 7,000 visitors each year and has its own workshop and a team of 70 volunteers, including several anciens from the C-130, with the support of experts from the WHI. The cost of the outdoor stables of the C-130 has been estimated at 100,000 euros. There is no significant difference between the costs of a storage facility in Melsbroek or Beauvechain. The WHI is also investigating the possibility of building a warehouse around the aircraft in collaboration with other public or private entities. In a first phase until 2026, the First Wing will continue to develop the various facets of the history of the Air Force from 1935 until today in the installations it has received in concession on the basis, thanks to the work of 70 volunteers. From now on, this will be done in close cooperation with the WHI. This development will highlight fighter aircraft, light aircraft, flight training and air transport, of which the C-130 will be the main museum piece. A cooperation agreement between the First Wing and the WHI is currently being drawn up. This agreement will be similar to the agreements that the WHI has had for many years with various friendly non-profit organisations. These agreements specify, inter alia, the obligations of the friends of non-profit organisations in respect of museums, preservation and restoration of the patrimony on long-term loan. The First Wing will of course be subject to those rules. In a second phase, after 2026, when the WHI will obtain additional buildings of the quarter in the vicinity of the First Wing in concession, the cooperation agreement will be reviewed, in particular with regard to the operation and management of the two sites. The agreement to obtain a series of additional buildings in concession was given by Minister Reynders in May 2019. The WHI has drawn up a plan for the re-establishment of its aviation collections on various sites, including the Aeronautics Hall site in the Army Museum. This plan provides for the transfer of various aviation items from all types to Beauvechain, in order to gain a place for the development of a modern museumology. According to the plan, no large aircraft will be moved by 2025. In summary, this means that the last C-130 will be kept, maintained and exhibited to the public by the WHI, a public institution whose core task is to preserve the memory. Mr President, I repeat here a letter that we have sought, which is dated July 4, 2019 and which is signed by the former CHOD, Marc Compernol. He said to Michel Jaupart, the director of the WHI: "I have the honour and the pleasure to inform you that I have asked my staff to study the matter. Following a preliminary study, I agree in principle for the transfer of one of the remaining nine C-130s to Defence." That was in July 2019. You heard the presentation I just made. Since, and before I make the final decision, indeed, there is another report from the new Chief of Defence. This is not the detailed study that I mentioned earlier, but the file presented by the new Chief of Defence, which stated that both options were possible and that he could favour Melsbroek. I think that this is a long time ago, that agreements exist, that decisions have been made and that today I have gone in line. I've heard some things I don't really like, like, "Let's see where the C-130 was most during his life." No, I'm sorry. Defence is a federal institution. The WHI is a federal institution. The mission of the WHI is to manage the movable heritage of armed conflicts involving Belgium and to present the history and memory of these conflicts in a way that integrates the values of a democratic society and contributes to the influence of Belgium. I would therefore really like to see no Community debate here. I would like everyone to be equally reassured that the WHI serves all Belgians and that there is no wish to deprive any of the Communities of the national heritage, the federal heritage which will be made available to all in the best practical manner, according to the conservation mission which is that of the WHI.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u20	Mr President, Minister, you must not suspect me of turning it into a Community debate. On the contrary. I just looked at the contents of the file. I am still not convinced that the best decision is being made here. You've given the facts. The most important argument for Beauvechain is those plans for the museum's operation. On the basis of the elements I have at my disposal, I can only say that the place where I think this plane belongs, where today's operation is, where the maintenance is taking place and the people who have proven that they can work with that kind of aircraft, is rather Melsbroek. I think you're taking a risk here anyway. Beauvechain's long-term vision is still full of mares. In the short term, there's almost nothing there. In the long term, there are indeed those plans for that museum project. It's a risk. If something goes wrong with one of those buts, one will always point to you and say that a bad decision was made at that time. I'm mostly interested in that study. I would like to take a look at whether, apart from the vision surrounding that museum activity, there are other points of departure to say that the choice made today is a good choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u21	Mr President, Minister, I am not afraid of a Community debate. However, I have not really received any answers. It is interesting that we can get a copy of Mr Compernol's letter. I understand from your answer that there is a slight preference for the new CHOD for Melsbroek. I hope we can look at that letter or report as well. You say that that decision was taken by Mr Goffin in May 2019. I find that very strange, because in the reply to Mr Buysrogge on 17 September, he said: 'The C-130 device intended for the WHI will not be exhibited in Brussels itself. It is provided at Melsbroek, the current location of the aircraft, or at Bevekom, depending on the last flight of the aircraft." The last flight of the plane will be on Melsbroek, then Melsbroek will be the pitch. "So, there are no additional costs associated with the placement." Minister Goffin replied. You say he decided on May 26 that it would be Bevekom. I don't get it at all. Then why didn't Secretary Goffin speak the truth? I don't think so. I know him as a very honest man. I find that very strange. Mr. Flahaut, you started the history. I would like to say two things about this. There's a C-130 in Beauvechain, the CH-08 was donated to Beauvechain last year or two years ago. Then make a museum piece in Beauvechain and give the CH-13 to Melsbroek. What's the problem? Let me tell you what the problem is: the CH-08 is in super bad condition. Fire drills are now being carried out and there is virtually nothing left of them. You donated one two years ago, and it's been treated so badly that there's almost nothing left of it. Now you do not want us to turn this into a Community debate and give the last aircraft that remains to Beauvechain again. They just got one, maybe they should have maintained it better. The truth also has its rights, of course. You say it's a PPS construction in front of the hall. I hear that the Minister wants to build a hall of EUR 300,000 in Beauvechain, with a PPP structure and therefore with private partners. That's the same system as the hallway for the A400M in Melsbroek. However, you said it was a bad policy. Maybe you should tell the Minister himself. Our party is in favour of PPP constructions, and that also applies to me in my capacity as mayor and former Secretary of State. Good cooperation between public and private actors will often work positively, although not always. There are pitfalls but one can manage this in a good way. I also think we're doing this with the halls we're building in Melsbroek. Now it is said that it costs 100,000 euros to leave the plane outside, so no more in Beauvechain than in Melsbroek. In Melsbroek, however, there is a hangar available while it costs 300,000 euros to build one in Beauvechain. So it is more expensive to do it in Beauvechain. Madam Secretary, I hope we get those reports. I will contact Mr Goffin to find out the truth because I don't understand it. Why would Mr Goffin say in September that nothing has yet been decided if you say that it was already decided in May? I would ask you to review the file because I believe I understand that there is no final decision yet. However, it is not entirely clear to me whether there will be another evaluation. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u22	It's definitely decided, isn't it? All right, then, together with Mr Ryon, I will submit a file to the Flemish Government to protect the C-130 as a Flemish heritage. That's what happened to the C-119. That way we can keep the plane in Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u23	Madam Secretary, I'm still a little hungry, too. I would have liked to have been clear about what is now in those reports. I also requested it in writing. We'll have access to that. You say that Mr Compernol said on 4 July that the C-130 is going to the WHI and that Mr Reynders has also decided that what is in the Cinquantenary Park is going to Beauvechain. Those are all decisions, but that's not a decision about where that CH-13 will stand right now. We would also like to take a look at the opinion of the current Chief of Staff, Mr Hofman. The C-130 in Beauvechain places is really the cart for the horse. There's nothing there to show that plane. You said yourself that there will not be anything there until 2026. The Dakota Club on the 15th Wing has everything ready to store the plane. Mr Francken said that there is a hangar there and that there are plans to put electricity on that plane to make all the instruments, all the lights accessible to the people. More than 7,000 people would come a year. The hangar is located on one of the busiest streets of Flemish Brabant. There would be a multiple of those 7,000 people going there. According to you, there is also a cooperation agreement between the 1st Wing in Beauvechain and the WHI. Then why can't a cooperation agreement be made between the 15th Wing and the WHI to incorporate that device on Melsbroek into the WHI? We're not putting all the material on one site, are we? Every plane and every material has its own merit. In Florennes is also a museum with a Spitfire, very handsome. That includes Mirages and the like. Are they all moving to Beauvechain? I'm gonna ask myself some big questions about that. Madam Secretary, as chief of your troops, you sometimes have to listen to your troops and not to a few. More than 1,500 people signed a petition. The men in Melsbroek are very displeased. Mr Pillen and I are going to visit BruMil this afternoon. We've contacted BaseCo and will listen to their story. What they tell us, we will try to translate into this Committee on Defence in respect of you. Mr Flahaut, during your speech I had the impression at times that the Minister was replying. That's your experience, I think. However, I do not agree with you at all when you say that the aircraft belongs in Beauvechain and has always belonged there because there is the material there to go on missions. Sorry, but the C-130 has also landed several times on Kleine Brogel and on Florennes to charge and transport ammunition for our F-16s. Moreover, the C-130 has been part of the European Air Transport System (EATS) with several countries for years and thus the C-130 has flown more and transported more material abroad than in its own country. The reasoning that the home base is determined on the basis of storage depots of, among other things, tents for the deployment of missions, is therefore irrelevant. There is nothing else available in Beauvechain, and that, as the Minister has just confirmed, will not change before 2026. Why we have to put the C-130 in Beauvechain alone in the mud, without spectators or visitors, remains a mystery to me. Madam Minister, all the C-130s are now 50 years old. As loyal employees, they have served. If you retire, you want to stay in your own municipality. Those who go to a rest home also want to stay close to family and friends who can still provide care. That is why I ask you to reconsider the decision. Wrong decisions can always be revised. I'd like to ask you to let the C-130 rest with his family and friends, that's on Melsbroek.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u24	Mr President, Minister, the answer you have given here is to a large extent, and I would like to emphasise to a large extent, in addition to the issue. You must forgive me, but I have a very strong suspicion that you are doing so on purpose. The ferocity and the bittenness with which Mr Flahaut rages here and responds to our questions only proves us right. You are avoiding a number of essential questions. Why does an organization like the WHI decide on this file? What legitimacy does the WHI have in this? The WHI is, moreover, an organization in which there is currently maladministration in the field of personnel and equipment management. Look at last year's destructive report from the Court of Auditors. In this dossier, with your blessing, the WHI is entitled to make a non-substantiated neither carefully planned nor budgeted decision on the future of historical military heritage and does so directly against the advice and statement of defence. The WHI decides with Defence money, with tax money to remove this aviation heritage from Flanders. With the best will in the world, I cannot rely on this reasoning. You refer to a study of the WHI, but the only legitimate study or note, to which you do not refer, is that of Defense itself, approved by the current CHOD, where Bevekom comes out of the bus as the worst. The advice of the Defense Department is contrary to the decision you are now coming to defend, and you know that very well. In Melsbroek the capacity and expertise is available, the accessibility is there and the cost is lower, but not insignificant. Everything is available and yet the choice for Bevekom is proposed. Bevekom, which, by the way, has always been a basis for fighter planes and where the C-130 has lost nothing. In addition, there is already a copy available. This dossier exudes from the beginning to the end Community tension and offers and the higher aim seems to be, Mr Flahaut or Minister Dedonder, I do not know who I should be addressing in this matter, that the entire aviation heritage should leave Flanders. The Flemish interest will oppose this and I hear that other parties are doing the same. Today we will be presenting an interplay, accompanied by a motion of recommendation, because of a number of uncertainties in this dossier. So, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to take action and support our motion for a recommendation. We'll see what that'll give. Madam Secretary, I have one more question for you. You still have time for that. Go in consultation with all the actors involved, with the municipality of Steenokkerzeel and all the non-profit organisations involved and make sure that the C-130 stays where it belongs. In this case, this is clearly Melsbroek for many reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u25	You're intervening for a personal fact, Mr Flahaut?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u26	Mr President, I could even have intervened three times! Don't blame me, Mr. Vandenput, but I stayed in the Defence for some 4,000 days. So I took a certain historicality out of it. On the other hand, I was not the one who put the case in the hands of the Flemish government. Simply put, if we want to talk about C-130, then we can also discuss Defence's historical heritage and see that in recent years, material has been directed to a particular destination. It's a fact. I also hear that some neighbours and friends of the Flemish Brabant consider that there is nothing in Beauvechain. It's just if they don't compare the site to the Sahel! I invite you to visit. You'd see something other than rabbits and wolves running in the meadow. Clearly, work is continuing there. A museum concept must be maintained. Otherwise, each small unit wants its small material for its small museum, but not its small museum for the general public! It's the little museum for the people who worked there! Mr Vandenput has just said: "To go see from time to time, with a certain nostalgia, the plane from which we were parachuted or on which we travelled". But the point is to develop museum concepts, for example in Brussels – I am thinking of the problems facing the Aviation Museum and the Army Museum – in places where the public can be attracted. This is an educational mission. You invoke the existence of a petition relating to C-130. You know, if you want a petition signed by 500 or 2,000 people, I can also prepare one. A nostalgic petition is being circulated about maintaining the tool there. An attempt must be made to maintain a general vision and consolidate everything that has been used for the Earth Component. I do not propose to bring the frigates to Beauvechain; it is in Ostend or Zeebrugge that a Museum of the Army must be set up!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u27	You want to take them to Beauvechain!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u28	No, I just said we weren't proposing to bring the frigates in! I just notice we love his little museum. And that's not possible. Instead of promoting a scratched vision, defend a global vision!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u29	The various questioners asked the Minister to obtain the documents, both the reports and correspondence. Can the cabinet deliver it to the secretariat?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u30	Mr President, I will give some answers. I really understand all the emotion present. I actually received e-mails from each other, and not just e-mails in a way, by the way. I also understand that when we have worked on this machine for many years, we want to continue to maintain it, to have it close to ourselves. I can hear it. We are political leaders and we need to step back from that and choose the best option. So it's not a default option, which was blown to me by either one or the other. It's not a "side-by-side" answer either. It's an answer that may not suit you, but it's not "near". I invite you to read it again in the transcript. I find it difficult to understand that it is absolutely necessary to defend the fact that this plane is entrusted to a private ASBL, whereas what we propose here is to entrust it to a public body, which is recognized, which has in its missions the conservation of heritage. It's a public institution. I believe that this final decision I made at the end of the year is in the rational sense, in the sense of responsibility, by entrusting this plane to a public institution. I listen a lot to the troops, and not just in this area. I think the troops have a lot to say about past management, and also in recent years. I hear the WHI is mismanaged, etc. Maybe ask yourself who handled it before me. I'm coming. And indeed, there was, in general, a disinvestment. There are gaps. I must move forward in this priority area. Today, I took this responsibility. I told you about the documents. I'm not telling stories. The previous Chief of Defense, in 2019, issued a favourable opinion for Beauvechain. The report that was submitted to me at the end of 2020 was not against Beauvechain. It simply indicated the two possible options by leaving the choice, saying it could be Melsbroek, because there are many people who ask Melsbroek. I'm trying to do the part. That is why I chose the option of the public institution, because I believe in public institutions, because we all decided here together, in the framework of the policy note, to invest in the WHI, because we all recognized the merit of the WHI, the importance of the duty of memory. This is part of all these elements that will allow us, as well as future generations, to remember. I took responsibility for the documents that were in my possession. I hear appeals will be brought. I find it a pity to make it a Community debate. I assure you that I did not act in that spirit. The WHI is not the WHI of Wallonia, but of the whole country. Besides, if there had been room for the 50th anniversary, that's certainly where this plane should have been. That, Mr President, is what I wanted to say in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u31	Will the documents be made available?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u32	Mr President, I say that at some point people will never agree. There!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u33	Madam Minister, my specific question is to make available the documents, namely correspondence and both reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u34	That is, Mr. Compernol's letter and the report of the new Chief of Defence? Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u35	I prefer to keep the order. It is normal that Members who have not asked questions should have the opportunity to speak in a topical and topical debate. There is also an answer from the Minister and a reply from the questioners. Now that the Minister is providing further information, I am obliged to give the floor to Members again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u36	Madam Minister, Parliament has the final say. I know this is sometimes ambiting, but it is. For the sake of clarity, I do want to receive the report in which, in your opinion, Mr Goffin chooses Beauvechain, because I find that very strange. After all, it completely contradicts what Mr Goffin said to the public in this committee on 17 September. If that is the case, then Mr Goffin has a problem, and if it is not, then you have a problem. With regard to the advice of the current CHOD, you are now saying that there were two options. At first you said there was a preference for Melsbroek, now you say there were two options and that you chose.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u37	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u38	Yeah, I heard that very well. I'd like to get that letter. Moreover, it is our parliamentary right to request those documents. You are obliged to deliver that letter, because it is covered by the disclosure of the board. That's obvious. If we have these reports, we will decide for ourselves how the fork is on the right track.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u39	Madam Minister, I tabled a written question last week to receive those documents. Hopefully I'll get them this week, because apparently they're available. If this cannot be done through the secretariat, they can also be requested by any Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u40	Mr President, I would urge a number of colleagues to have all the relevant documents made available by the committee secretariat so that everyone can judge, in all conscience, the decision that is being made here and which runs counter to a number of notes that we know of. Madam Minister, you have to forgive me for saying that your answer is beside the issue, but you have not answered a number of questions. You deal with issues such as the vision of the WHI, but not with the note that led to this decision and in which the Defence Staff put forward the most appropriate option. That is why I say that you are answering alongside the issue, because you did not mention that study of the defence industry. You also did not answer the question of whether the public procurement law was not applicable here. You say that the WHI as a public institution has entered into an agreement with a private organization. I therefore ask again whether or not the law on public procurement is applicable, Madam Minister. You should not blame us for a Community debate. In this respect, the initiative has been very clear either by yourself or by colleagues in the committee to open the matter up at Community level. For everyone who is of good will, that is very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u41	I don't have to answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u42	You may reply, Madam Minister, but there is a risk that there will be another reply. I'm just signaling it. There are 67 items on the agenda and we are now at item 1. Will the documents be made available?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u43	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u44	All right, the documents will be made available. I have the Minister's commitment to this. I'm closing with this... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u45	Colleagues, let's keep a little decency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u46	Mr President, I would like to answer the Minister. She says she wants answers outside the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u47	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u48	But you did not put a question, Mr Flahaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u49	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u50	Once you're free to intervene. I even gave you the floor a second time. I have given you the floor a second time, but if you ask for the floor for a third time, you will have it, but keep it brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u51	I am always very brief and certainly not the longest in this committee. I have the impression that, more and more, this committee and others are systematically turning into pseudo-committees of inquiry. I would remind you of one principle: we are parliamentarians to control and not to make decisions in the place of government. Clearly, if the minister, on the basis of information and notes, has several alternatives, she has the strictest right to make her decision. Whether you like it or not, it is political responsibility and it will be supported in the political responsibility it has taken. We must stop wanting to do politics instead of government. We are parliamentarians. Your party should come or return to power and become a minister again. That's probably what you did during the time you were. This is what we all do when we are ministers: we take responsibility on the basis of analyses and alternatives. Choices are political choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u52	The Minister wanted to answer my question, did not do so and said he would reply to me outside this sitting. I object to that. I would like the answer to be recorded in this House's report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u53	Then I will give the Minister the floor once again to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u54	Mr President, I asked whether, after my answer to Mrs Ponthier's question, you were going to tell me that a next round was planned. In that case, I announced that I would respond to Mrs. Ponthier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u55	I'm not saying this is gonna happen. There's a risk...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u56	Mr President, I shall respond in another way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u57	Okay. Then this topical and urgent debate is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u58	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to wish the Minister a happy and constructive year. I haven't had a chance to tell her yet. Minister, the health crisis is saving no one. This is also the case with youth movements. Many of them may find it very difficult to recover from this situation, especially as it adds to previous difficulties. For example, some structural aids and support have already been reduced or reduced from year to year, resulting in an impact on the accessibility of leisure activities for all. The mission of these youth movements is to provide an enabling and rewarding environment at an affordable price. This possibility is maintained only by the will and commitment of young people in their projects, on the one hand, but also by structural or ad hoc aids, on the other hand. Without the combination of these two factors, the project is likely not to continue. With respect to Defence, the Tent Loan Partnership with Defence came to an end in 2020. Defence apparently does not wish to reiterate this partnership, as stocks are now made up of high-tech tents and are not destined for movement. Destocking via a sale was also announced. Minister, what about these old stocks? Was the sale organized? Were all tents sold and to whom? Have preferential conditions been applied for movements and groups that are now in need? Finally, can Defence still help youth movements and in what way, if not through tent lending?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u59	Madam President, a year and a half ago, Defense announced that it would sell all its tents. The Flemish Community, which has since built a large stock through its lending service, then looked at whether it would buy the tents, but did not do so in the end. Madam Secretary, what is the status of this dossier? Have all the tents been sold? Who bought it? I would have liked more information on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Defence had, a short time ago, a large number of tents which were no longer suitable for training and training. These tents, which were the subject of loans for the benefit of youth movements, were gradually renovated, by the complete replacement of the canvas, or simply declassified because they became unusable. Unfortunately, there are no old tent stocks for sale. The renovated tents strictly meet the training and training needs of Defence and are therefore no longer eligible for loan to youth movements.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u61	Minister, thank you for this short answer. I draw your attention to the fact that aid to the Nation is also aid to civil society. Our youth movements have an important role in cohesion and group life learning. I think it is important to support them, especially at this time. So I really invite you to look at how Defence could continue to support these movements.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u62	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I understand the stock has been completely sold by now. This was something that had an important social role in the past. In future, I will continue to argue in this committee that defence should continue to play its social role where it can help, perhaps in other areas and in other areas, in society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u63	Mr. Chair, Minister, the previous government has acquired a lot of new equipment for Defence. This necessarily means that, in the course of future deliveries, Belgium will end up with old equipment from which it will have to separate. However, this is not about any type of equipment and it requires multiple precautions. In the past, we have already sold F-16s to Jordan, for example, and concerns have been expressed about the possibility that they may subsequently be resold to Pakistan. That didn't happen. I also imagine that equipment will have to be downgraded, so dismantled and dispersed. Minister, what is the government's and defence's plan for this old equipment? I am thinking in particular of our F-16s, but not only. Are there any equipment that will be offered for sale and according to what procedure? Have some countries ever shown interest? If so, what beacons will be placed to avoid losing track of the equipment sold? What about the decommissioning and dismantling of old equipment? Are there procedures in place and public procurement to assign such tasks? What safety measures are being taken for the management of such special and dangerous equipment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u64	Mr Defossé, the aim is to sell, if possible, the old Defence equipment. Since these are weapons systems, they will a priori be a sale from State to State, or a sale to a firm active in this field. If there is no interest, the equipment will be dismantled and destroyed. For sales, the procedure that will be followed a priori is that of a negotiated procedure with publicity, which is the standard method of procurement for defence and security procurement. Some countries have already shown interest in certain materials. With regard to the beacons that will be placed to avoid losing track of the equipment sold, it should be noted that prior to the execution phase of the contract for the sale of military equipment, Defence continues to comply strictly with the applicable national and international rules on the end-user certificate: third-party transfer authorization and export licence, in cooperation with, inter alia, the competent authorities of the country of origin of the equipment sold, the SPF Economy and the SPF Foreign Affairs. If the buyer does not meet these three conditions, the contract is terminated and the equipment will not be transferred. Where appropriate, dismantling and destruction shall be carried out through a multi-year contract which has been concluded by the Defence through a procedure negotiated with an advertising firm specializing in this field. A specific contract for dismantling and destruction may be concluded in the case of equipment of exceptional size, such as a ship. Physically, these equipments are managed in accordance with the rules of military security as described in the corresponding regulations. At the management level, when using these equipment, they are monitored individually in the IT tool for the material resources used by Defence. As previously stated, the regulations on end-user certificates, third-party transfer authorisations and export licences are applied. The necessary data shall be entered into the IT management tool in order to be able to always have the necessary information relating to the alienation of the data. My answer was longer this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u65	Madam Minister, thank you for this longer response, which is quite complete. The second hand market must, of course, remain under observation because it is an important international security issue. Thank you for continuing to pay attention to it. Of course, we will also remain attentive to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u66	Mr President, Madam Minister, the government agreement and your general policy note provide for large investments in infrastructure, which was necessary and urgent. The envelope, according to what you have announced, amounts to EUR 1.5 billion. As you know, the climate crisis requires strong urgent action. The government is committed to achieving a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. This is an ambitious but, above all, indispensable objective. Within this framework, all sectors, all jurisdictions must make substantial efforts and be exemplary. That is why, Madam Minister, I would like to know the Defence's commitment to this matter. So what will be the environmental and energy requirements of future military quarters? Will all planned renovations lead to a reduction in the energy consumption of buildings? More broadly, what about the Defence fleet? Does it meet strict emission standards? Finally, for all Defence buildings and activities, is there an energy transition plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u67	Mr President, Mr Defossé, the future military districts will be built according to the latest standards of sustainable construction, both in terms of energy performance, water management and choice of materials as well as in terms of well-being. The planned renovations will reduce the energy consumption of buildings. Their energy performance will meet the strictest regulatory requirements. Defence's commercial vehicle fleet is renewed taking into account FPS Circular 307 Strategy and Support dated April 21, 2017 issued on May 11, 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u68	Minister, thank you for your answers, which are satisfactory. As I said, we are pursuing an ambitious but indispensable objective. We must succeed in this turning point, we have no choice. For this reason, everyone must agree to make efforts. I'm counting on you to follow this file. In any case, you should know that my group will be attentive to this. I will probably file a question to write in order to obtain encrypted data.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u69	Mr President, Madam Minister, since 1 October our country has again taken part in Operation Inherent Resolve in Iraq and Syria. Our bomber fighters are therefore likely to hit targets on the ground. All under the control of a team in the CAOC in Qatar. The Red Card Holder (RCH) is responsible, with three collaborators, for authorizing or not to strike according to the mandate and rules of engagement defined by the government. The responsibility of this team is therefore extremely important. Among these collaborators is a LEGAD responsible for giving legal advice to the RCH on the legality of strikes. This advisory role is important and involves a great responsibility, in that it seeks to ensure respect for international humanitarian law and thus protect civilians and ensure that Belgium complies with its international obligations. This role should therefore be ensured by trained and experienced staff, both in terms of legal knowledge and in terms of personal abilities. Minister, what is the profile of the lawyers deployed in this operation? In particular, what are the possible criteria for age, experience, status (career, reservist, civilian), rank, seniority? What are the training and training conditions for the performance of this function? How does the feedback between the different rotations take place? What are the legal lessons – the well-known lessons identified/lessons learned – from previous deployments and how have these lessons been introduced into the preparation for future deployments? Do these jurists receive support when deployed, particularly in the case of questions about the mandate, rules of engagement or international humanitarian law? Where appropriate, who provides such support, according to what procedure and within what time frame? What is the procedure to be followed in the event of an incident, particularly in the case of civilian victims? These missions must be psychologically challenging. We can imagine it. I don't think anyone here would want to do that job. What is the psychological preparation put in place prior to deployment and what is the psychological support provided upon return?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u70	Mr Defosse, the Legal Advisors or LEGAD are the first point of contact for all the legal aspects of the operations and exercises in which the Belgian armed forces participate or participate. These LEGADs have a master's degree in law and are selected by the Defence for their legal and behavioural, psychological and physical skills. They must also develop and maintain military skills, including mission skills and additional training in the law of armed conflict. In order to ensure the return of experience, the LEGAD sends a report at the end of its last operation to the operational law section of DG JUR, which enables the learning process to be fed. He/she shall also communicate to the relevant hierarchical command a debriefing of the operation and the lessons to be learned. The LEGAD deployed remains in constant contact with the Operational Law Section, which is responsible at all times for its legal follow-up. The Defence shall take all practical steps possible to limit the damage to so-called "collateral damage" civilian populations and property in the planning and conduct of such a military operation. This means taking precautions for the attack, respecting the principle of proportionality by the Red Card Order team as well as by the pilot. It cannot be totally ruled out that the use of force does not result in civilian damage. In the event of an incident, the notification procedures provided for shall be carried out taking into account the classification of the information. As a first step, a reporting procedure is planned within the military chain of command. In the interests of efficiency and transparency, the Defence has taken the initiative to always inform the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and/or the Federal Police of incidents that do not fall within the mandatory notification provided for in article 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation. Psychological support is provided prior to departure, during deployment and upon return. It is provided by specially trained and appointed Defence personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u71	Minister, thank you for this answer, which is also complete. If it is an area where we must be blameless – and I think Belgium is, and that is so much better at the moment! - It's airstrikes. We know that bombing is never without risks. Unfortunately, there are many examples of blunders committed by other countries in operation. Their consequences are extremely dramatic and heavy. For this reason, our way of doing things must be irreproachable. I also draw your attention to the psychological accompaniment and training these women and men need. Indeed, as I said earlier, no one would want to be in their place at the time of decision-making.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u72	Mr President, it seems to me that Mr Pillen's questions were substantially the same as mine with, however, even more questions. Minister, on 24 September, the Capacity Team Steering Group (CTSG) decided to reactivate the Belgian air defence as part of the Earth component's future plan. The 2016 strategic vision of the Earth component, however, had acacted its disappearance, effective since 2017 with the transfer of 37 gunners to various other units. Today, under pressure from NATO, and in partnership with the French army, it is announced that Mistral training and training will resume. The objective is to rebuild the GBAD (Defence Ground Based Air Defence) capacity by 2030 to meet NATO's Very Short Range Air Defence (VSHORAD) target. Minister, this information raises a few questions. What is the deadline for implementation of this decision? Is this reactivation a concerted political decision with the military staff or a concerted military decision with the political authorities? What is the added value of this choice for Belgian Defence and for strengthening a defence Europe? Is this also part of a European strategy of military autonomy? Is the decision to reconstitute an air defence unit three years after its disappearance not disturbing in terms of the political and military coherence of Belgium? What is the impact in terms of personnel of this decision? Where will the new gunners come from? Will gunners transferred in 2017 be reintegrated into this anti-aircraft unit? If so, how many of them? What is the cost impact? What about the availability of equipment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u73	Mr Minister, normally the special commission for army purchases is given the scoop, if the Defence Department intends to buy a new system. Unfortunately, it now seems that the head of the Land Component did a little too much about Defense's plans in a well-meaning video, including the future of artillery at Defense. In addition to reactivation of the Mistral capacity, he expressed his hope for the approval of the new Caesar-howitzers. The strategic vision indeed called for the replacement of the current artillery by an indirect precision fire support battery with a large range, equipped with air transportable wheeled vehicles, in the period 2027-2029 worth EUR 48 million. We regret that, if that information is correct, we are already working on the purchase of a specific product and, apparently, we are already establishing who will be the producer before Parliament has heard of it. Madam Secretary, can you confirm that there is an interest in purchasing the Caesar artillery system? If so, where is the DOD with the talks with the producer? Why isn't an open tender procedure used to fill in the requested capacity of the long-term artillery? What other systems, currently available on the market, could also have completed capacity? Is the government sticking to the budget of EUR 48 million for the purchase of the new system? If so, how many howitzers would like to buy the Defense Department for this? If not, what new budget are you aiming at? On which platform would the Defense want to install the Caesar? Can you do that on the trucks that are currently in order? Or will the purchase also include new trucks? With the investment in Caesar, what will be the future of the current battery indirect fire support shorter wear, with 105mm artillery pieces and heavy 120mm mortars? With Caesar, we would include a third system of the Scorpion program in our arsenal. This immediately raises the question whether there is any further interest or perhaps already conversations about the purchase of other Scorpion systems. With the purchase of the Oshkosh the Serval seems excluded, but can you indicate if there have been any contacts with the French before the acquisition of the Leclerc MBTs, the light armoured car VBAE or other systems to be developed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u74	Madam Secretary, I was very pleasantly surprised when I saw the Christmas movie of Major General Gérard. First of all, I thought it was a positive and cool video. More of that! Secondly, his announcement about the artillery was of course very positive news. With regard to the Mistral, I refer to the very good questions of my colleague from Ecolo. With regard to the Caesar systems, I have a number of technical questions. How's the purchase process coming along? More technically, has it been decided which variant, the 6x6 or the 8x8, it will be? What is the ratio of the desired purchase to the CaMo file? What are the advantages and disadvantages of integrating the purchase into the CaMo project, or opening the market for this? Was that specific consideration made? Does the announced purchase fit in the Scorpion program? If so, in what way? Which foreign partners will be involved in this? That is, of course, important if we want to revive the artillery capacity, which I support 100 percent. On the one hand, we have a Belgian-Dutch cooperation in the field of artillery and, on the other hand, a very extensive cooperation with France, even integration of the systems with the French systems, if you answer my questions about the integration into the Scorpion programme and the CaMo programme in a positive way. In short, how do you see cooperation with these neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u75	Colleagues, as announced in my policy brief, the Strategic Vision has been developed taking into account a geostrategic environment that has evolved profoundly. The distinction between external and internal security has become much more diffuse. The modus operandi used by some State actors, but also by terrorist organizations, are new challenges. As a result, the air threat has changed significantly since 2016, due in part to the increased use of unmanned aircraft. In updating the Strategic Vision, the evolution of this threat will be taken into account. Moreover, ground air defence capability is considered to be a European-wide EU short term High Impact Capacity Goal (HICG), in view of the changing security environment. At this stage, no political decision has been taken to reactivate the anti-aircraft capacity. Within the Defence Staff, careful planning is under way, as is done for other types of capability. In the event of an effective reactivation of Belgian Air Defence, the impact on personnel will be limited. Indeed, thirty-four gunners who, until 2017, belonged to the Very Short Range Air Defence Unit remained in Nieuport. Gradually, new recruitments may take place. In the first phase, training and training would take place with the equipment still present in Defence. The strategic vision, published on 29 June 2016, provides for the acquisition of a new mobile long-term precision artillery capacity for the motorised land forces for a planned amount of €48 million. A military prospect is currently being carried out in preparation for the dossier. So no decision has yet been taken. In the context of the strategic partnership with France for the motorised capacity CaMo and the realisation of the capacity change, the operability with our partner should be guaranteed and pursued at all times. The possible artillery system to be acquired should therefore be fully integrated into the framework of the partnership.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u76	Minister, thank you for your answer. I note that no decision has yet been taken. Perhaps we had to deal with an excess of enthusiasm. If this reactivation occurs, it is important that it be carried out jointly with a strengthening of Defence Europe. In any case, we should avoid as much as possible stop and go, which are obviously not very productive and are even sources of waste of training and money. We will therefore be following closely the development of this issue in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u77	Thank you for your answers, Madam Secretary. I'm trying to read between the lines of your answers. In fact, you say that the head of the Land Component has spoken somewhat in turn. His film was well-intentioned, but the information in it was by no means based on a decision. You yourself stressed that no decision has yet been taken. For the sake of clarity, we support any decisions to invest in capacity, but it is only logical that such decisions take place through the appropriate legal procedures. Before the government takes a decision, explanations must first be given in the parliamentary committee set up for that purpose. When a proposal is submitted to the committee, we will consider to what extent the concerns are taken into account in the specific points on which I asked questions. It is, after all, quite remarkable that it is already assumed in the defence sector that a particular type will be chosen. You spoke of "interoperability with our partner" in the singular. I'm assuming that's supposed to be "partners."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u78	I would just like to touch briefly on the Mistral issue. When you talk about Nieuwpoort, I assume it is Lombardsijde, where the Mistral capacity will be re-exploited. I believe that this will correct the misstep of a few years ago when the Mistral capacity was deactivated. That is positive, especially given the new threats, as you indicated in your reply. This is therefore a positive correction; moreover, the staff who are able to cope with it are still there. We also support the new capacity of the long-hand artillery. Interoperability with the partners in the plural, so I do believe that it is essential. We need to think this through. If the CaMo concept is chosen for the Land component, it should be looked at in the first place, but interoperability with other partners should not yet be excluded. It doesn't necessarily have to be with the French army again. Development can also take place in a broader NATO context. I will continue to follow the theme closely and also look forward to your answers to the more technical questions at one of the next meetings of the Army Procurement Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u79	Mr President, before I ask my question, I would like to know at what time the committee will end.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u80	The Minister has informed me that she has to leave at 12.30 p.m., so we now have 15 minutes of meeting time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the press, CHOD detailed Defence's needs to develop a cyber component that will be cross-cutting with the other four components. We have already discussed this during our discussions on the policy note. It is a question of starting with 110 people and extending to 300 people around 2030. This is ambitious, especially in view of the very specific profiles that will have to be sought. Minister, how many people are there today? How will Defence succeed in recruiting and retaining such highly qualified and highly sought-after profiles in the labour market? Is there already a plan planned in particular in terms of pay attractiveness? CHOD also referred to the necessary partnerships with certain companies. Can you tell me what kind of business it is? Are they already identified? Will these partnerships be made through public procurement? While we are talking about national security, are there Belgian companies with the necessary skills? If not, how will we ensure that there will be no foreign interference in our own cybersecurity component?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u82	Colleagues, the cyber domain is indeed a technical niche that represents a challenge for staff. In order to deal with it, Defence analyses several leads in different areas: - With regard to communication, through the development of the identity of the Cyber SGRS in order to better highlight the specificity of this profession as a cyber expert in defence; by organizing specific recruitment campaigns for the cyber expert. This will highlight the unique profile of the SMS and the benefits offered in relation to the private sector. In this context, in particular, one can think of the technical possibilities and areas of expertise specifically related to an intelligence service. In the coming years, the SGRS's cyber capability will be strengthened, demonstrating the willingness to give the SGRS a central role in this area. This will ensure a stable growth environment that will provide unique career and training opportunities. In the area of pay, a comprehensive salary adjustment plan is under consideration. The enhancement/revalorization of cyber status will be integrated into this plan. As far as recruitment is concerned, by developing opportunities for paid internships, by financing scholarships, by linking staff to a minimum period of return, by organising summer camps and cyber competitions. As far as training is concerned, by providing continuous training in high technology and on-the-job learning for cyber-experts, with certification and valorisation of these trainings in personal files. As far as selection is concerned, optimising the selection procedures for the recruitment of expert profiles and adapting the statutes in order to be able to recruit very specific profiles. With regard to careers, by shaping specific career paths and staff management adapted to the specificities of cyber-experts. All these avenues are currently under consideration, but no decision has been taken at this time. Partnerships with businesses are one of the options being explored to address the challenges of developing a cyber component. This study is currently under way and concerns both the type of company concerned and the modalities for establishing such partnerships. The findings of this study have not yet been finalized and no decision has been taken so far. National security aspects are of course paramount and are a central element of this analysis. There is also a procedure for obtaining security clearances for private companies and individuals external to Defence, depending on the level and scope of application required.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u83	Minister, I am discovering the possibility of referring to my written question. I could have saved us ten minutes. I'm so sorry. I'll write it down for the next time. It's the inexperience of the beginnings. Thanks for letting me find out. I agree with you. Cybersecurity has become important, if not more important than the physical capacity and defence capacity of states' borders. The challenge ahead of us in the coming years is enormous. We will need an effective and cutting-edge component. This will require high-flight recruitment. I hear you're putting in place a number of plans and strategies to recruit these profiles, and I'm glad to hear that. I trust you in setting up the incentives. Of course, we will continue to follow this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u84	Thank you too, Minister, for your very detailed answer. Perhaps I should have recalled two questions that I had tabled. You have responded fairly well with regard to the implementation strategy for the recruitment of specific profiles that this component will require. Unfortunately, I have not yet had much information on the budgetary means to be allocated to it or on the timetable for implementation. To be followed, then.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u85	Mr President, Minister, the cooperation of some of our universities with the so-called Seven Sons of National Defence from China raises a number of pertinent questions. The budgets of the top Chinese universities called the Seven Sons of National Defence, which are very closely linked to the Chinese authorities, are reported to be half spent on military research. For example, they develop military technology, such as underwater drones, monitoring apps and facial recognition cameras. Universities and their research are considered crucial for China's security policy, which is increasingly using high-tech resources for defence, but also for the violation of human rights and the repression of minorities, such as the Uighurs and Falun Gong supporters. The KMS investigated some Belgian universities and it shows that there are a total of 321 collaborations with Chinese universities. Some (31%) are considered to be cooperation with a moderate to very high risk to our safety. It is a risk of espionage, among other things. Recently, more initiatives have been taken by our universities on ethics and the screening of students and researchers, no doubt because the balance with academic freedom and vigilance in this area is increasingly being placed on the agenda. However, the question arises as to whether all this is sufficient. How do you evaluate the security risk identified by the KMS? Have you discussed this with the universities concerned and with your fellow ministers of the Interior, Foreign Affairs and Justice? Will more research be carried out to re-evaluate the relations of our universities and possible companies with China and to check whether our institutions are directly or indirectly involved in human rights violations or in the disclosure of sensitive defence-related information? If so, how will you deal with this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u86	Mrs Ponthier, there is, of course, a need for a certain degree of vigilance in the context of relations with China. The issue referred to transcends the level of defence and will be the subject of consultations at the National Security Council. Consultations with the universities concerned and with the Ministers for the Interior, Foreign Affairs and Justice shall take place through the relevant levels and platforms. Several initiatives have already been undertaken to examine the relations of our universities and companies with China, in consultation with the competent authorities. Where necessary, this research will be expanded and re-directed to better identify the risks and define stricter measures to manage them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic331x.u87	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is a very overarching issue, and I am very aware of that. I also put the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but she did not reply. I very much regret that, all the more so because you say that this competence must be dealt with comprehensively, both in the area of justice and in the area of defence and in the area of internal and external affairs. I hope that this cooperation will bring concrete results. In my view, the threat cannot be underestimated. We also see this abroad, of course, in the United States, because there the threat seems to be slightly greater because of the number of Chinese PhD students studying there and transferring the necessary knowledge to the Chinese authorities. There the threat is very real. Sweden and other countries are also taking the threat seriously. I hope that you will do the same and, on a regular basis, in any body in the National Security Council, the more likely the threat is to be seen as real. Let us adjust a little in that respect and shake off any naivety that might still exist to meet the very real threat.
