ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u1	Good morning, everyone. Debates of the European Parliament 5501968C by Mr Thémont and Question No 55021302C by Mr Robaeys are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u2	Mr President, Minister, the law on the extension of mourning leave to ten days was adopted here and applies to employees and civil servants. Self-employed people have not yet been included, although the loss of a partner or child is difficult for everyone, regardless of the status in which they work. For self-employed people, enlargement needs to be further developed by means of a royal decree. What progress has been made in preparing this royal decision, Mr Minister, so that self-employed workers can take 10 days' leave of mourning and take time to pay for the loss they are suffering?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u3	Mr President, I have an answer to two questions, those of Mrs Vanrobaeys and Mrs Lanjri. Mrs Vanrobaeys, on my initiative, a draft text was drawn up by my administration which contains the necessary implementing arrangements for the funeral leave for self-employed workers. This draft royal decree was approved by the Council of Ministers on 21 October and is now awaiting the opinion of the Council of State. I cannot give you a precise date yet, but in view of the entry into force of the law of 27 June 2020, you will understand that I am doing everything I can to ensure that it is published as soon as possible. As regards the benefit, the application must be submitted to the social insurance fund to which the self-employed person is affiliated, in accordance with the provisions of the draft decision, no later than the last day of the year following the day of death. The application shall be made by registered letter, by lodging the application on the spot or by electronic means. The amount of the benefit was EUR 85,77 per day on 1 September 2021. The self-employed will be informed of this new benefit and its modalities in the usual way. This means via the website and the other normal information channels of the social insurance funds, via information letters sent to the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u4	Minister, I am pleased that progress is being made for the self-employed too, so that they can count on this benefit. You also referred to the law on this subject, which has been applied retroactively since the floods. It is important that there is clarity about this. I understand that you wish to proceed with the publication of the draft Royal Decree as soon as possible, but it is important for the self-employed to know whether they can use it retrospectively. The first three days after death are mandatory, while the next seven days can be taken within the year after death. Thus one can bridge certain important days, such as a wedding day or Christmas day. It depends on what people think is important. It is no different for self-employed people. Finally, I would like to remind you of a resolution that I tabled in order to give extra support to those who lose their partners when they are young. This support is very broad: it is, of course, about the transitional allowance, but it is also about administrative and psychological support and updating payments that are made with blocked accounts. That seems to be a problem. For example, continuous contracts for Internet subscriptions or childcare costs are simply blocked. We urgently need to update this, hence a virtual appeal to my colleagues to support the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u5	Minister, last week in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs we discussed the measures for self-employed workers during the corona crisis. You have indicated that since the start of the corona crisis, aid has already been paid out at EUR 5.2 billion. That is absolutely a good thing and for many self-employed people it has made the difference between survival or not. You also indicated that a third of these self-employed persons made use of the bridging right during that period. The right of bridging has been granted 2.8 million times. You also indicated that 125 million euros were recovered in 2020 and 46 million euros in 2021. This brings the total to EUR 171 million. It is a good thing that this is being checked. You also indicated that this is not necessarily about deliberate fraud. I'm sure you do. It may also be about mistakes or undue payments. In those difficult times our self-employed will also have found it very confusing. I can therefore very well imagine that mistakes have been made. On the other hand, I also think that we should not be naive. There are always and everywhere people who want to deliberately abuse the system. Minister, do you agree that the intentional abuse of the right of bridging is a serious mistake and should therefore be severely punished? Are you also prepared to make any consequences of this and, in addition to recovering sums, to link sanctions to fraud? You indicated in the previous sitting that 171 cases have now been brought to court. Seventy-two of them are now closed. But you couldn't tell me in what way they were shut down at the time. Would you mind explaining that for me? What exactly happened to these files? What steps do you intend to take? Would you also like to draw up an overall plan of action, following the example of the Flemish Government, to tackle all forms of corona fraud? I am thinking here of the deployment of additional inspectors and the stepping up of inspections.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u6	Mrs Houtmeyers, I would like to begin with a brief clarification on your questions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the unjustified payment of a bridging right does not necessarily point to fraud. There is a great deal of confusion in that respect, but it can also be about errors, wrong payments, etc. However, I do agree with you that genuine fraud chains, those who have benefited from the crisis of ripping off the federal state, the accountants and the self-employed, deserve a sanction. Following our exchange of views in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on 20 October, I asked for an update of the figures in order to give you recent data. As you know, there are three monitoring lines for the temporary crisis measures since the beginning of the sanitary crisis and the introduction of the crisis bridging right to tackle fraud. The first line consists of the social insurance funds, the second line through the audit of the funds and the third line through the RSVZ's Fair Competition Directorate (ECL). Since 2020, the various stakeholders have worked closely together to detect and deal with cases of fraud or abuse of the temporary measures related to the right to bridge the crisis. In 2021, the controls were stepped up. In 2020, while emphasising the post-tradition controls, the partners placed emphasis on controls a priori in 2021 by strengthening their cooperation mechanism. The RSVZ also concluded cooperation protocols with the Länder to ensure an ad hoc exchange of information. In this context, I can tell you that RSVZ, with the help of the social insurance funds, has already effectively recovered EUR 125 million in 2020 and EUR 46 million in 2021 through the first-line control. Then I come to the questions about ECL fraud. Cases of abuse and fraud shall be punished. As a function of the situation, recovery will be organised by the social insurance fund or an administrative or criminal sanction will be imposed. From the beginning of the crisis until September 2021, the Executive Board opened ECL 8.165 investigations in connection with a suspicion of abuse or fraud or an anomaly in the temporary crisis measures. From the beginning of the crisis until September 2021, 3,912 investigations were closed. Of these 3,912 studies, 1,454 resulted. The Executive Board of the ECL has distinguished between two types of fraud: abuse or anomaly. These are cases specifically related to the granting of a temporary crisis bridging right, for example the fact that one is fictitious as a self-employed person without ever having exercised an independent activity, but with the sole aim of obtaining a bridging right or the use of a false identity in the context of an application for the granting of a bridging right. More classical fraud and abuses were also discovered following the submission of an application for the granting of bridging rights, e.g. people who worked without being connected and joined in to receive compensation during the corona crisis. In 2020 and 2021, 79 administrative fines were imposed in connection with a suspicion of fraud with the temporary bridge law crisis measure. The amount of administrative fines is between 500 and 2,000 euros. In parallel, since the beginning of the crisis, the RSVZ has worked with the Labour Auditorate for 257 files related to the crisis measures. For 111 files the investigation was closed, for 146 files it is still ongoing. The files are now in the hands of the Justice Department and I can tell you that the figures are increasing every month. So you can see that I take the fight against abuse and fraud seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the very comprehensive answer. It was an important question and that is why I gave you a little more time. Of course, it is not always possible to stick to the two minutes provided and your answer was very complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. We've got some extra numbers again. What strikes me is that we're talking here about 865 manual investigations. This seems to me to be very little compared to Flanders, where there have been 15,000 manual inspections for a lot less files. There have also been many more inspections in Flanders in the field of temporary unemployment. So I am left with the question as to why the figure is so low. Is it perhaps due to the fact that there are too few inspectors or resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u9	Mrs Houtmeyers, the taxation of temporary crisis measures, the right to bridge and the establishment of a specific code for this tax in the tax return are the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. However, my cabinet regularly consults with the Minister of Finance on this matter. The same applies to our respective administrations because this favourable and separate load of 16.5 % has a social impact. As you know, and in order to ensure equal treatment in the calculation of social security contributions for all beneficiaries of financial benefits in respect of the various crisis measures, the right of bridging was decided by means of circulars not to take into account the amount of financial benefits relating to temporary crisis measures, taxed at 16.5%, when determining the basis for calculating social security contributions. In the absence of a specific code linked to the temporary right of bridging of the revenue crisis measures of 2020, the Minister of Finance and myself, as well as our respective administrations and social insurance funds, are working together to develop a global procedure aimed at establishing a simple data exchange mechanism between the social insurance funds and the FPS Finance via the RSVZ in order to properly individualise the amounts charged at 16.5%, to ensure correct tax collection, and then to ensure that these amounts are deducted from the basis for calculating social security contributions, and thus to arrive at a correct calculation of social contributions. According to the latest information exchanged, the Minister of Finance and his administration are able to provide this information to the RSVZ and to the social insurance funds. My administration is in contact with the FPS Finance and expects an answer or a solution in the short term. Our aim is to prevent any administrative overload, both for the self-employed and for the social insurance funds and the tax administration. On the other hand, as regards the financial benefits under the temporary crisis measures, taxed at 16,5%, received in 2021, a separate code will be provided, so that this global procedure will only apply to the benefits received in 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u10	Indeed, Minister, these are not the most simple Dutch words you should know for this matter. You say that you are working on a solution in the short term, but in the meantime there is uncertainty in that regard. That's not funny, because they've had it so hard. I hope that in the very short term this will become very clear and can be dealt with quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u11	Mr President, Minister, you announced at the beginning of August 2021 that you were in favour of extending the right of bridging to self-employed persons until the end of 2021. My question dates back to August 2021. The measure normally expired at the end of September 2021. A government press release dated 24 September 2021 also confirmed that the bridging right would indeed be extended until the end of 2021. The law was certainly a good measure, which helped many self-employed people through the crisis. However, the figures published by De Tijd, among others, in mid-August 2021, show that in July 2021 barely 1.1 % of self-employed workers applied for the allowance. This is clearly a sign that the revival of the economy is a fact and that the measure has no further reason to exist. Indeed, it can never be the intention to keep unliving companies alive longer and artificially. At the same time, however, there are the sectors that the government has been obliged to remain closed for a very long time, namely until 1 October 2021, such as nightlife, and which, of course, now have a very difficult restart after a year and a half. There is also the very high vaccination rate in Flanders, which the government and the Consultation Committee did not want to take into account yesterday. However, specific and better measures may be conceivable. I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Firstly, how many self-employed persons still benefited from the bridging right in May, June and July 2021? If you now also have the figures from August and September 2021, you can certainly add them. Secondly, are these figures to crystallise specific sectors that still enjoy the right of bridging today? Thirdly, do you not think that, given the revival of the economy, the measure in question has no real added value and would be better stopped, as originally foreseen in September 2021? Fourthly, what has been the full cost of the special bridging right since the beginning of the crisis until the end of July 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u12	Mr President, Mr Verreyt, as far as the figures are concerned, more than 92,000 self-employed people were paid out in May 2021 in the context of temporary crisis measures. In June and July 2021 there were still more than 76,000 and almost 23,000 respectively. The figures are provisional and reflect the data known on 11 September 2021. In relation to the industries, the detail per branch shows that the self-employed who have benefited from temporary crisis measures for one or more months from May to July 2021 are mainly active in trade. I can get you the table if you want. I'll hand them over to the secretariat. Within the trade, the majority of beneficiaries of temporary crisis measures are in the hospitality sector: more than 35,000 in May, almost 32,000 in June and almost 5,000 in July. As regards the extension of the measures, on 1 October 2021 the Council of Ministers approved the extension of certain aid measures for enterprises and the self-employed. These measures are aimed more at those who still have or will have difficulties due to the covid crisis. As far as my powers are concerned, this is the extension of the second pillar of the right to bridge the crisis, but for a higher reduction. In order to be eligible, the self-employed must be able to demonstrate a reduction in turnover of 65% for the months preceding their application compared to the reference year 2019. As you can see, the percentage of turnover decline has been greatly increased, 65% instead of 40%. A self-employed person who is still facing a 65% reduction in turnover today still deserves financial support. We also extended the third pillar of the crisis bridging right in case of quarantine or care for a child. This extension will expire on 31 December 2021. Since 1 October, the double bridge law has also ceased to exist and the new first pillar of the crisis bridge law has entered into force. This new pillar envisaged a single distribution crisis bridging right in the event of a mandatory closure imposed by the federal government. Because there have been no mandatory closures since 1 October, this pillar has not yet been activated. It shall expire on 31 December 2021. Based on the latest figures, the cost of the crisis bridging right was EUR 5.2 billion on 15 September 2021. This global amount of EUR 5.2 billion represents 46% of all federal aid in 2021. By 2020, it was EUR 3.4 billion and by 2021 we will amount to almost EUR 1.8 billion. Since the beginning of the crisis, in March 2020, we have granted 2.8 million bridging rights unique benefits to 441,000 self-employed people out of a total of 1.2 million self-employed people in our country. I would add that you will find all the figures in the tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer and suppose that I will get the table through the secretariat. An amount of EUR 5.2 billion is a great deal. Mr Houtmeyers spoke just now about the limited number of abuses that have been identified, but that is another debate. You quoted the figures: in May 92,000 self-employed, in June 76,000 self-employed and in July 23.000 self-employed. I assume that the figures have fallen in the same order of magnitude in the months of August, September and perhaps October, especially since October no sector has actually been closed. I therefore assume that the figures go even further down. I agree that the third pillar is still being preserved, but it is becoming more difficult month after month to continue defending the second pillar. For the time being, its end has been fixed on 31 December 2021 and we do not need to renew it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u14	Mrs Lanjri, the report of the Management Committee to which you refer in your question contains interesting proposals on disability in substances and their professional reintegration. Since the prevention of incapacity for work, the guidance in the event of incapacity for work and the reintegration of long-term ill self-employed people cannot be seen separately, I am aiming for an integrated policy. I am therefore very fond of the idea of a health budget for the self-employed. This will make it possible to provide tailored guidance at the moment when the self-employed person actually needs it. During the budgetary conclave, I therefore put on the table a proposal which included a number of measures to provide better guidance for disabled self-employed workers. A reintegration path will therefore be introduced specifically for the self-employed. It also provided a health budget for the self-employed. However, that last part of my proposal was not supported by the entire government. I can give you more details about that after the meeting. As far as your second question is concerned, I intend, by analogy with what is provided for in the workers' system, to introduce into the sickness insurance funds also the disability insurance for self-employed persons back to work routes, under the coordination of a return-to-work coordinator. It will be examined whether the existing questionnaires in which the disabled worker is questioned about how to assess his chances of returning to work can also be modelled on the situation of the self-employed. Re-integration is best discussed as early as possible. For this reason, we will develop a specific quickscan which will enable the medical practitioner of the sickness fund to assess the remaining capacity of the disabled self-employed person. Those pathways will greatly enhance the reintegration possibilities of self-employed people who are recognised as unfit for work. With these routes we provide a personalised guidance and a tailor-made reintegration path. The starting point is what one can do, not disability. People who can get to work, we give them the chance to get back on their feet. The concrete implementation of the pathways will be carried out in close consultation with the representative self-employed organisations and insurance institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is positive that efforts are being made to reintegrate the self-employed who are failing and that it is being integrated into the broader story that the government is working on. I would also like more to be done to prevent the loss of self-employed workers. We can see that stress and burnout are increasing. These are important components in the breakdown of self-employed workers. We also see that self-employed people are less inclined to call the alarm on time and ask for help. That is why a health budget could be interesting. I hope you will succeed in convincing those Members who were not convinced. I'll argue with that. For employees there are already forms of prevention of stress and burn-out. This can be done on the company floor, but it is not immediately available for self-employed workers. We should find additional resources and ways to prevent them too. I hope you won't completely give up that hatch and keep working on it. What is not possible today may be possible tomorrow or next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u16	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Willaert's 55019778C and 55019903C are postponed at her request. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Anseeeuw's 55020711C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u17	Mrs Lanjri, you are asking for different figures. The RSVZ may provide detailed information on the effective disbursements under the various temporary crisis measures on the right of bridging, but not on the number of applications and refusals. The information available to me therefore relates to the number of self-employed persons who have received at least a financial benefit under the temporary measures on the right of bridging, the corresponding number of payments and the total amounts paid. However, I can give you the various figures I have at my disposal, whether it is this question or the next one. Since the beginning of the crisis, there have been three control lines for the temporary crisis measures: a first-line check by the social insurance funds (SVF), a second-line check by the SVF audit by the RSVZ and a third-line check by the RSVZ's Fair Competition Directorate (ECL). I have already explained the precise operation of the three control lines on many occasions. They cooperate and regularly share information. Their checks are carried out both a priori and a posteriori and in a targeted and arbitrary manner. Together, they recovered more than EUR 125 million in 2020 and more than EUR 46 million in the first semester of 2021. The amounts are fully recovered, whether or not linked to fraud. They do not, of course, include the benefits the funds have blocked as an actor in the first line of payment a priori. On 30 September 2021, the Executive Board linked ECL 8.165 investigations to the temporary crisis measures launched, of which 3,912 investigations were already completed. In the closed studies, 1,454 studies were further followed. The figures cannot be broken down by type of temporary crisis measure on the right of bridging. As regards sanctions, since the beginning of the crisis, the RSVZ has cooperated with the Labour Auditorate in 257 files linked to the temporary crisis measures bridging law. 146 cases have been pending and 111 investigations have been closed. I have no idea of the possible legal sanctions imposed in connection with a suspicion of abuse with temporary crisis measures. In response to your last question, my cabinet, my administration and the various stakeholders meet regularly to take stock of the situation and the abuses and fraud linked to all temporary measures of bridging law. Moreover, as already mentioned, the three control lines work together and regularly share information. In this context, the different procedures shall be regularly analysed and adapted where necessary. For example, the various stakeholders have recently set up a priori controls and are currently working on a procedure to prevent certain forms of fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have already explained the procedure relating to abuse and did not really form the core of my question. I note that most of the figures requested cannot be provided. In general, for example, I asked about the number of applications so far, throughout the whole corona period. I would like to know how many applications were submitted and how many were refused. Apparently, you can't give those numbers. How many people were refused? How often was single or double awarded? I suppose our administration has those figures. You also say that you do not know how many suspicions of abuse have led to a judicial file. However, it is reported from the administration that, in certain cases, there should be a judicial section? I understand you don't know the outcome of those court files, but I suppose you can tell me how many files have been forwarded to the courthouse. I'm stuck with those questions. Can you explain why you don't have those numbers now? Can I get them later, if necessary? It seems essential to me. I ask nothing new, it seems to me to be a matter of keeping records of every administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u19	In this context, I have answered several questions put by Mrs Houtmeyers, including the specific questions on abuse. That is why I did not answer your question in all respects. I can give you a table of figures, on which you can read the more detailed situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u20	Thank you, Minister. I was on my way this morning and I haven't been able to follow the whole committee meeting. I would like to receive an answer to the questions I have asked. That may be a written answer for me. If you say you don't know how many applications were refused, I find that strange. I do not know if Mr Houtmeyers has asked that particular question. Not only the number of applications, but also the number of refusals I wish to know. My oral question was not merged with the questions put by Mr Houtmeyers. That is why I assume that the questions do not have the same content.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u21	Mrs Lanjri, I suggest that you submit the full report of this committee meeting and, if necessary, a follow-up question. Because we can't get out now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u22	Mr Minister, can the figures be added to the report or can I have them? In that case, I can see what's still missing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u23	I can give you a more detailed table, but the figures on how many times the right of bridging was requested are not in the table today. I can ask for an update of this table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u24	You do not have them, so you cannot give them what I understand and regret, but the administration should have access to them. If you can get me this later, I'll be very grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u25	The so-called pension reform plan of Minister of Pensions Mrs Lalieux was allowed to be heard by means of a press release issued on 1 September 2021. There's a lot of ink flowing over it. In this context, I have raised questions about the pensions of self-employed people. Are you, as a minister responsible for pensions for self-employed persons, consulted by the Minister for Pensions or its administration on the proposals that have been made? Was the reform proposals which you yourself are undoubtedly considering regarding pensions for the self-employed taken into account? To what extent will you yourself take initiatives in the coming weeks and months to reform the pensions of the self-employed in accordance with the government agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u26	Of course, I have already had contact with the Minister for Pensions on pension reform and in particular on the reform of self-employed pensions. In the context of the serenity of the debate, it is appropriate not to say too much about this, but it is my wish to be able to explain it to this committee as soon as possible. As a result of the budgetary conclave, some pension measures for the self-employed are already on the table. For example, there will soon be a solution to allow specific assisting spouses to receive a minimum pension, despite the fact that they do not fulfil the grant condition of proving a career equal to at least two thirds of a full career. In addition, a solution will be found for the self-employed to reform the transitional allowance. This will be examined together with the proposals of the Minister for Pensions. Some of these principles have already been adopted in the context of the budgetary conclave.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic620x.u27	Minister, I am pleased to learn that there has been effective consultation between you and Mr Lalieux, because I understand that there has been no consultation with your colleague Petra De Sutter, who is responsible for the pensions of civil servants. Maybe the language plays a part in that, I don't know. In any case, it is encouraging that there is consultation. I will, of course, keep a close eye on this dossier in the course of the next few weeks. I hear that there are many good intentions, but I look forward to the real concrete proposals that will come forward. So to be continued, Minister.
