ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u1	Madam President, Madam Minister, in this topical debate, I would like to ask you about Ukraine, Georgia and the recent Russian movements. At the beginning of March, the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, visited Ukraine and Georgia, in particular to show the European Union's solidarity with these two countries, which are geographically speaking in a very difficult situation in the face of Russia. In addition, they are also experiencing some internal structural problems of corruption. Madam Minister, what can we learn from Mr Charles Michel's visit to Ukraine and Georgia? How does the European Union intend to further support the necessary process of democratisation and transparency in Ukraine? What is the status of bilateral relations between Belgium and that country? This brings me to the question of the Russian troops recently deployed on the Ukrainian borders. I would like to know how our country, as well as the European Union and NATO, intend to react to this deployment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u2	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to return very briefly to the Foreign Affairs Council of 19 April and to see what your position has been on Russia's massive military mobilization. I would remind you that these are still more than 80,000 soldiers, who have now withdrawn in part. Besides, there is also the very worrying deterioration of Mr. Navalny's health in prison. With regard to the Russian military invasion, which was likely a few days ago in Ukraine, what was the position taken by the ministers of the European Union? Have you ever defended new sanctions against Russia? How do you want to increase the pressure on the Moscow regime, and the pressure against an increasingly authoritarian drift in Russia? Finally, following the decision of the Czech Republic or Poland, has an initiative to expel Russian intelligence agents and/or diplomats present in Brussels been considered or envisaged at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u3	Mr Francken is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u4	Madam President, with regard to a topical debate, I would like to know, in addition to my questions, what is the Foreign Minister's analysis of developments, namely the withdrawal of Russian troops. Is the threat now considered to be over? What caused the withdrawal of Russian troops? Is this possibly the firmness of American and/or European diplomacy? Was there for once the feeling of the Russians that they could pay a very high price for an invasion in Ukraine? What lessons can be learned from this incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u5	Madam Minister, my question about Mr Navalny's precarious situation due to his state of health has now become obsolete because he has since been transferred from prison to hospital. Seventy international leaders have also written an open letter to Russian President Putin asking him to provide the necessary medical care. In the meantime, have you contacted the Russian Ambassador on the matter, and if so, what was his response? Did you discuss with your European colleagues last week how to help Mr Navalny?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u6	Madam Minister, what message did our country send following the escalation in the Ukraine dossier at the special session of NATO on 14 April 2021, at which the Foreign and Defence Ministers were present, as well as the US Minister for Foreign Affairs? In 2008, Ukraine was promised membership of NATO, but as long as there is a conflict on its territory, that membership is not possible. The country has indicated that, if it cannot become a NATO member, it wants to arm itself with nuclear weapons. What perspective and message of support has NATO given, both to the citizens and to the policy makers of the country? Was the Navalny issue discussed at the NATO summit and among the foreign ministers of the European Union in the light of the failure to comply with the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which demands its immediate release by Russia?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, Ukraine is receiving very sustained attention both from the European Union and from bilateral bodies - as you have heard in several international forums. In recent months, relations between Ukraine and the European Union have been particularly intense. High Representative Josep Borrell visited Kiev at the end of September 2020, before an EU-Ukraine summit was held in October, to be followed by an Association Committee in November and an EU-Ukraine Association Council on 11 February. The October summit confirmed the European Union's commitment and its reliability as Ukraine's partner. Mr Charles Michel, President of the European Council, visited Ukraine at the beginning of March, stopping in the Donbass region. During this trip, he stressed the common values of democracy, human rights, the rule of law, respect for international law. He noted that the European Union was Ukraine's most reliable partner and reiterated its support for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Ukrainian State. On a bilateral level, you know that Belgium and Ukraine have excellent relations. On 10 February, I myself met with the Prime Minister of Ukraine during his visit to Belgium. This meeting took place in an atmosphere of constructive work. You will recall that we were even able to sign agreements on the work of the wives or spouses of diplomats. Like its European partners, Belgium fully supports Ukraine in carrying out reforms aimed at ensuring strong institutions. There is still work to be done in the areas of the rule of law, respect for human rights, women and minorities, but we welcome the willingness of the Ukrainian government to move forward in these areas. These elements remain essential if Ukraine is to make progress in its relationship with the European Union. With regard to Ukraine's increased integration into the European internal market, Belgium calls for full implementation of the provisions and opportunities offered by the Association Agreement already in force. In the long term, Ukraine wishes to join the Transatlantic Alliance. This rapprochement is important and beneficial for both sides and must be seen as an opportunity to accelerate the country's transition to a stable and prosperous democracy. It enjoys NATO's close partner status, with which progress is assessed on the basis of the annual national plan. The special session of NATO on 14 April was devoted exclusively to Afghanistan, but the NATO-Ukraine Commission, which met on 13 April in the presence of the Ukrainian Foreign Minister, reiterated the alliance's support. I would also like to remind you of the Enhanced Forward Presence, which was decided in 2016 with the specific aim of strengthening the collective defence and deterrent of NATO on the east flank. As you know, the EFP is based in the three Baltic States and Poland and should therefore be seen above all in connection with the security of those specific allies. With regard to the Black Sea region, NATO decided on the Tailored Forward Presence with a multinational presence in Romania and a surveillance of airspace in Romania and Bulgaria. In 2019, NATO decided to increase its presence in the Black Sea through exercises and port visits. We also support Ukraine in terms of its territorial integrity, in particular with regard to Crimea and the situation in the Donbass region. That is a message that I have repeated to the Ukrainian Prime Minister and which we will continue to convey in the various international fora. At the Foreign Affairs Council meeting on 19 April, in the presence of my Ukrainian homologist, the EU deplored the recent Russian military movement near Ukraine. All EU Member States were also satisfied with Ukraine's remarkable restraint on this provocative development. I welcome Russia's announcement on 22 April that it will withdraw the troops recently stationed in the border area with Ukraine. The Western response, both at the level of the European Union and NATO and the OSCE, was swift and appropriate, by supporting Ukraine and at the same time advocating de-escalation. Mr. Dallemagne asked how we were doing the analysis of the departure of Russian troops. Only those who decide on an action can know the deep reason for it. It's not philosophy, it's just realism that we all have to face in life. The reality is that you mean it by reading the different moments of intervention and the different movements, meetings, public expressions on Europe's solidarity with Ukraine. It is estimated and hoped that this may have played a role. In the OSCE, Ukraine has applied the dialogue mechanism of the Vienna document. Russia replied that the recent military activities are part of the regular routine training of the troops. A North Atlantic Council statement was published in NATO on 15 April condemning the continuing pattern of Russian destabilizing behaviour, including with regard to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and Georgia and the ongoing violations, non-implementation and circumvention of numerous international obligations and commitments. Russia is also called upon to cease its provocations and to immediately de-escalate tensions on Ukraine's borders and on illegally annexed Crimea. NATO remains open to a regular, focused and meaningful dialogue and to a constructive relationship with Russia when Russia's action allows it to do so. At present, NATO is increasing its situational awareness and political consultation with regard to Ukraine. Only through dialogue can progress be made in the Donbass peace process, either in Normandy format or in the trilateral contact group. Belgium fully supports these efforts, as well as the work of the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission. I come to Russia, whose internal situation has changed little since our last exchange. Mrs Van Bossuyt, there had been questions about Navalny, but you were not the only one. I would repeat that the European Union issued a statement on the eve of the Foreign Affairs Council on 19 April, calling on the Russian authorities to give it immediate medical access. You know the development of the situation. Russia, both as regards its internal developments and as regards its action on the international scene, is indeed at the heart of our concerns. We're talking about it almost every time we meet. The adoption of European sanctions last March must remind Russia that the violation of its international commitments, particularly with regard to human rights, has consequences. So yes, new measures are not excluded, but sanctions cannot become an end in themselves. This discussion, we have it on the Russian file, we have it on the Chinese file with the Uighurs and we have it on various other files. The whole thing is to know how to achieve this balance between sanction, so that the country concerned and the rest of the world can be told that we are not laughing, and the management of the continuity of dialogue. This balance is one of the ways in which we can make tangible progress in diplomatic matters. In the run-up to the Russian parliamentary elections in September, the pressure on civil society will only increase. We will have to calibrate our reactions and evaluate their impact with sufficient flexibility to adjust the shot if necessary. The international community and Europe in particular do not close their eyes. It is true that we must have a vision of the stakes at 360° but also a good dose of strategic patience, which is often undermined in commitments such as ours. As I said, I remain convinced that a commitment to Moscow remains necessary. Russia remains absolutely essential, both in the European neighbourhood and on the international stage, so that we must keep the channels open. Mr Cogolati, you referred to the sanctions allegedly imposed by the Czech Republic. On behalf of Belgium, I publicly supported the decisions taken by the Czech Republic following the determination of Russian responsibility for the explosion of the two ammunition depots in 2014. NATO and the European Union have adopted declarations of solidarity, which we have also supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u8	Madam Minister, thank you for these very detailed and sincere answers to your analysis of these issues, which are of great importance to us as Europeans. It has been a long time since we entered a new era of East-West relations which requires a great deal of sensitivity, diplomacy and precautions, especially in this region of Donbass where I have already visited as well as in Ukraine, Georgia and Russia. We are really able to meet the expectations of many citizens of these regions vis-à-vis the European Union. They expect either sanctions or dialogue on their part. I agree with you, Madam Minister, that the justice of all these serious conflicts must be done by asking these states to be transparent, as is required in our bilateral relations with Ukraine, as well as strong human rights commitments. For this reason, Minister, dialogue with all parties must be maintained. It is through it that discords will be resolved and more serious conflicts will be prevented. I'm convinced of that. We must insist on our values at the level of the European Union, especially when these extremely important values are flouted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u9	Madam Minister, thank you for your long and detailed reply. I believe that it is in Europe's honour to adopt firm and consistent positions on the international scene and to say that in no way will we undermine the means and sacrifice those values which are fundamental and which form the common foundation of European integration. Clearly, this committee will also support you in these efforts. It's important to say so. We must be able to speak frankly with Russia, say that we will remain very attentive to respect for the most basic human rights and respect for the rule of law, but also for democracy. We see and observe this authoritarian drift very clearly. If the situation still needs to deteriorate in Russia, we need to be able to talk more openly about sanctions, or even about this famous pipeline project, the North Stream 2. We will once again have to keep to ourselves, if this degenerates, these clear means of pressure on Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. My question mainly concerned Mr Navalny's state of health. I thank you for following everything very closely. Europe must play its part here. In doing so, it also defends the principle of freedom of expression. I agree with you that we must maintain dialogue with Russia. The country remains an important and close neighbour of Europe. I read somewhere that we should go for dialogue and toughness. These words sum up well: we need to maintain dialogue, but we need to be tough where it has to be. When it comes to freedom of expression for an opposition leader and human rights, we must be tough, as the European Union maintains. With dialogue we will still achieve more.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u11	Madam Minister, I too would like to thank you for the answer. Now that the troops have been withdrawn, the weapons have remained in place, it seems that the Russian President has wanted to intimidate Ukraine and has wanted to test the European Union and the United States after the change of power in the White House. It is therefore important that we do not allow cohesion to be undermined in the European Union, given the risks, which are always tried. I am therefore pleased that there is unanimity. I hope that such action will continue to be possible in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u12	Madam President, Madam Minister, on 19 March 2021 Turkey withdrew by presidential decree from the Istanbul Convention. As is well known, this Istanbul Convention must protect women, especially against sexual violence. For me, it is a horrific, monstrous step back on fundamental standards that underpin the Council of Europe, of which Turkey is a part. Madam Minister, have our diplomats in Turkey and our representation in the Council of Europe taken any steps towards the Turkish President to reverse this withdrawal, which represents a serious setback and danger to women's rights? Today, with the pandemic, domestic violence is on the rise. There's never been so many of them. This gesture goes completely against the tide of history. What does this withdrawal mean for our bilateral relations with Turkey?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u13	Madam President, Minister, the Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, or the Istanbul Convention, is under pressure now that Turkey has decided to leave the Convention. This is worrying because the Istanbul Convention, with a comprehensive legal framework to combat violence against women and domestic violence, is the first and to date the most important legally binding instrument. Moreover, the corona crisis has shown that domestic violence against women has increased enormously. According to women's rights organisations, there were more than 300 feminicides in Turkey by 2020. Turkey is the first member of the Council of Europe to withdraw from the Treaty. That is all the more painful because Turkey was the first state to ratify it in 2011. At the beginning of this year, on the proposal of my colleagues from Open Vld and myself, this Parliament adopted a resolution on this imminent withdrawal. Parliament asked the government to urge the Turkish and Polish authorities not to abandon the treaty and to respect the convention. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. What steps have already been taken to implement this resolution? Can you give a brief explanation for each of the requests? What efforts have been made to keep Turkey in the Convention before the country withdrew? What steps has the EU taken? Could you give us a little more explanation? Do you have any knowledge of signals from other Member States, outside Turkey and Poland, who may also be thinking of withdrawal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u14	Madam President, Minister, on Wednesday 7 April an official meeting was held between the EU and Turkey. After the last EU summit in March, the Turks were promised a better relationship because of the so-called milder attitude of Turkey in the eastern Mediterranean. At that summit, the Turks were held a number of roots in the context of constructive and positive cooperation in the near future. One of these roots was the modernisation of the customs union. Now positivism must have quickly replaced healthy realism, because we have seen one of the first steps Turkey has taken effectively. They got out of the Treaty of Istanbul. A positive mutual agenda was then put on the table at the beginning of April, according to the President of the European Council, Mr Michel. He had a meeting with the Commission President, Mrs von der Leyen, with Turkey. I will ask you about that in a moment. You will undoubtedly have a number of additions to that agenda, which we will be able to hear from you shortly. However, the substantive discussions that you will undoubtedly discuss later were also overshadowed by an incident now known as'soft'. The painful spectacle showed that the relationship between the various European institutions is not optimal. As a result, the EU has left an internally divided and confused impression on the international stage. Can you explain the various items on the positive mutual agenda at the EU-Turkey meeting? Have any agreements or intentions been made in this direction regarding closer economic cooperation, financial support and visa-free travel for Turkey? If that were the case, is there any concrete Turkish return services and if so, which ones? How do you evaluate the talks between the EU and Turkey yourself? How do you respond to the diplomatic incident that occurred after the so-called "sophage"? Do you know who is responsible for the protocol agreement between the EU and Turkey, so that the Commission President, Mrs von der Leyen, did not appear to be parallel to Mr Michel, but had to sit on a sofa during the meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u15	Madam President, Minister, my question is also about the same consultation that took place on 7 April between the EU and Turkey. Frankly, I am a little surprised that only two committee members are asking a question about the sofagate incident. Many questions have been asked about Turkey's withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention, which deals with violence against women, but the sofagate incident can also be seen as a form of violence against women. I therefore find it very strange that there should not be any more people offended here, whether it should be that European President-in-Office Charles Michel is a party member of some Members. Nevertheless, we will ask a question about this. We all witnessed the incident that took place. I was sorry to have to see such things myself. It has been known for some time that there are tensions between Commission President von der Leyen and European President-in-Office of the Council Michel, but I would like to ask myself some serious questions about this. This was also discussed yesterday in the European Parliament. The words spoken by the Commission President, Mr von der Leyen, say everything. She said that she is President of the European Commission and that she wants to be treated like this, which was not the case in Istanbul. It finds no reason in the Treaties why it was treated in this way, so the only reason for this must be the fact that it is a woman. She felt hurt and alone. Those are harsh words, aren't they? European President-in-Office Michel replied that he did not want to cause a diplomatic incident, but he had an exemplary role there and should have even given his seat to the Commission President if necessary, just to signal that women are equal to men, especially in the European Union. I know, Madam Secretary, that you yourself are calling for a great deal of attention to be paid to this. For example, you have included in the government agreement that you want more women in the Belgian diplomatic corps. However, when women see such things, it does not immediately encourage them to go into them. I therefore have a number of very specific questions on this subject. How do you assess the incident that took place there? Did you address Mr Charles Michel, the President-in-Office of the European Council? Have you witnessed any disagreements or disagreements between the Commission President and the President-in-Office of the Council? A question that several colleagues have already asked is what was discussed in terms of content during that consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u16	Madam Minister, I agree with these questions and even with the question you have asked. The so-called'sofagate' was mentioned yesterday in the European Parliament. It was clear, however, that there was a form of discrimination. We can only regret this in these times, when we believe that rights and dignitys have been acquired, when we are increasingly finding that we are not moving forward and must rather ensure that we continue to defend our acquired rights. That step back was also taken with the Istanbul Convention, initially signed by Turkey, but now the country has withdrawn its signature. However, the importance of the Istanbul Convention has already been sufficiently underlined. It is the first binding treaty whereby citizens, including women, can enforce their rights before a court of law, imposing a duty of care on countries to prevent, investigate and punish domestic violence. Objections to the Istanbul Convention also make use of an error narrative, especially from anti-gender movements, for which we must be very vigilant. It is argued that the Istanbul Convention undermines traditional family forms and eliminates gender, so that we only talk about gender. All those objections are wrong, they're motivated by those wrong moves. Mr Reynaert referred to the resolution, which urges our government to urge Turkish and Polish authorities not to withdraw from the Istanbul Convention. I do not think we can stress enough that there is a need to defend equality. Madam Minister, what démarches have been made, both with regard to Turkey and Poland, on the ratification of the Istanbul Convention and the non-retreat from it? We can talk about it and analyse it, but we also need to be alert to creating new instruments. Last week we adopted a resolution tabled by myself, among others. With this resolution, we can introduce a new instrument into our foreign policy, indicating that we take this very seriously. I know, moreover, that you yourself, together with your fellow ministers, Mr Kitir and Mr Dedonder, take this very seriously. A new instrument could be the designation of a special envoy for women's rights, girls' rights and gender equality. An investigation into how that is possible should be initiated. Madam Secretary, in what time do you see that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u17	Madam President, Madam Minister, on 25 March you responded to one of my colleagues on the sanctions envisaged against Turkey, in response to President Erdogan's desire to withdraw from the Istanbul Convention. On that occasion, you expressed your regret at the latter decision. However, you felt that it was better to work on a "positive agenda" as Turkey had shown "good will" in some cases. However, as some colleagues have explained very well, President Erdogan imposes on us a negative agenda, both with the withdrawal of the Istanbul Convention and with the way in which the President of the European Commission was treated on 6 April last in Ankara and which gave rise to the sofagate. That is why I was disappointed by your reply to my colleagues. On 31 March, I then interviewed the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, Ms. Sarah Schlitz. On that occasion, she assured me of putting the Istanbul Convention at the forefront of all international forums. For the rest, it referred to your answers as to the diplomatic levers to be used. Minister, what about the Council of Europe's funding of actions to support women's rights that you proposed to promote? Would a firmer policy towards Turkey not better guarantee the implementation of the Convention in countries that would be tempted to follow Turkey – in particular Poland and Hungary – but also hope for a more women's policy on the part of the Turkish government? What answer do you give to the appeal that was made no later than Monday to the European leaders by the President of the European Commission to demand that Turkey respect women's rights as a prerequisite for the resumption of relations with the Turkish government? Will you take this into account at the European Summit scheduled for June? And then, to reassure my colleague Van Bossuyt, I would have liked to hear you specifically about the sofagate. Do you consider that this was a protocol incident, which Mr. Michel justified by the need not to create a more serious diplomatic incident? Or, on the contrary, do you think, like Mrs von der Leyen, who reminded MEPs yesterday, that this is an assault on our values of equality? Has the Istanbul Convention been discussed in connection with the meeting as such? With what result? What can we really expect from the Turkish Government in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u18	Madam President, Madam Minister, as I had the opportunity to question you in plenary a month ago, I will speak briefly. Since then, Turkish women have continued to mobilize to make their needs and human rights heard. Violence against women is far from falling, both in Turkey and elsewhere in Europe. Several interesting texts have been voted in Parliament on the issues of equality between women and men and the fight against violence. As my colleague has just pointed out, in your response to the plenary meeting, you have put forward a positive approach with Turkey, indicating that it plays an important role in the de-escalation of tensions in the Mediterranean. Are we still there a month later? Have you been able to identify or operate other levers in recent weeks? I am thinking in particular of the reform of the customs union between the European Union and Turkey. The discussions have slowed down somewhat, but isn't this really an interesting lever? In addition, the embarrassment of the "sofagate" situation may have triggered some things. Finally, I believe that the call made last week for all European countries to put the issue of equality between women and men as a prerequisite for any possible negotiation, regardless of the subject and in particular with Turkey, is important. I'd be happy to hear from you on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u19	Madam President, first of all, if you allow me a preliminary remark, I think that we cannot blame colleagues who have not spoken of the incident of being poor defenders of women's rights. Those who have focused on the Istanbul Convention and the consequences of the withdrawal and who have decided to address the issue of women's rights from this angle cannot, in my view, be suspected of defending gender equality in the world less strongly than others. This is an absolute prerequisite. I think we all share in this room the value of the equality of men and women in the world, no matter where these men and women are. If there is one thing we must not allow to do, it is that the defence of these values is an opportunity, a way of dividing ourselves between us because actions taken by third parties can embarrass us. That is something I would like to stress. It is true that the issue is being addressed at European level. Mrs von der Leyen and Mr Michel had the opportunity to speak together, as is the case with their services. I imagine – I wasn't there, but they all reported – that they were able to express their feelings and talk about the consequences in terms of the impression that this may have generated outside, but also in terms of relations with Turkey. I also imagine that they have discussed the question of how to ensure that this does not happen again in the context of labour relations, but also in the organization of the various institutions. In my view, the most important thing is that, together, we must ensure that this does not happen again and that we do not find ourselves in a situation where, in the end, the focus is on a difficulty at European level rather than on work to be done on the spot in relation to the Turkish authorities. It is united, by defending our values and gender equality, that we must act in the face of actions of third parties, by trying, by various means, if not to convince, in any case to tighten the screw by all the means we know in order to try to achieve a result. Let me now return to the content of the Istanbul Convention and the consequences of Turkey's withdrawal. The withdrawal of this Convention is an area of concern that was not desirable. Belgium attaches great importance to this Convention. As you know, this is the first legally binding international instrument to combat domestic violence and violence against women. Belgium has been actively promoting the ratification and implementation of the Convention for a long time, and will continue to do so. The promotion and protection of women's rights and thus the fight against gender and sexual violence are priorities of Belgian domestic and foreign policy. For Belgium, ratification and implementation of the Istanbul Convention by as many countries as possible is a priority. We are trying to contribute to this in various ways. I would like to point out that the Convention is also open to the ratification of countries which are not Member States of the Council of Europe. In multilateral interventions and in our bilateral contacts with Member States of the Council of Europe, but also with other countries, for example with Mediterranean countries, the Istanbul Convention is mentioned and it calls for ratification or for the exchange of good practice. Such exchanges allow us to enter into dialogue and share our own positive experiences. It's not just a text I'm reading. Every time I meet colleagues from all over the world, I take this opportunity to talk about that treaty and to point out our know-how. We know how to do it. We must also do our job, because there are problems in Belgium too, we must never forget that, but we have the know-how and a plan of action. We're happy to share that and that's what happens, mostly when I meet people and when the situation allows it. Our country did this, among other things, during the organisation of a side event in Geneva at the end of October 2019 in the margins of the regional conference on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the Beijing World Women's Conference. In the framework of the UN Human Rights Council, Belgium raised questions and recommendations on the Istanbul Convention during the universal periodic review of Portugal, Slovakia, Northern Macedonia, Armenia, Bulgaria and Croatia. Belgium deplores the fact that certain countries have indicated that they do not wish to join or withdraw from the Istanbul Convention with the false argument that the Convention would be intended to undermine traditional family values and promote lgbti. Our country has responded to this both publicly and in bilateral démarches with like-minded countries and is seeking to eliminate misconceptions in order to speed up the ratification and implementation of this Convention. Belgium will continue to focus on combating misconceptions and sharing our own positive experiences. As I said, we deeply regret the announcement of Turkey's withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention and, of course, call on Turkey to reconsider its decision. This decision is difficult to understand because it endangers the protection of women's rights in Turkey, on the basis of an increase in femicides in Turkey. I would also like to point out that Turkey is not the only one concerned: let us also look at what is happening here. On the eve of the tenth anniversary of the Convention, and while gender-based violence has increased significantly throughout the world during the pandemic, this ambitious legal instrument is deliberately undermined by one of the first signatory States, which even lent its name to the Convention, which is rather paradoxical. In these terms, it is definitely a very, very bad sign. As a result of this announcement, I immediately spoke out publicly to reiterate our commitment to women's rights around the world, and I raised this issue at the Foreign Affairs Council on 22 March, at the General Affairs Council the next day, or at bilateral meetings the same week. I have discussed this at length with my German counterpart Heiko Maas. I have regretted the recent initiatives that lead to the narrowing of the space for democracy, political plurality and the rule of law in Turkey. I have not had the opportunity to have direct contact with my Turkish counterpart since that announcement, but I can assure you that this issue is a recurring theme of our bilateral relations with Turkey. In my last meeting with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I had drawn his attention to the human rights situation in his country. I have offered to share best practices on the ratification and implementation of this treaty. We will continue to remind Turkey of its obligations as a member of the Council of Europe. You should also know that our embassy in Ankara is also following the situation closely, in consultation with the European Union's representative on the spot. I can also tell you that this dynamic followed by foreign affairs is not just that of foreign affairs: I was talking informally with my colleague Minister of Justice, who explained to me that he too, in his international contacts, was raising this issue. Since Turkey notified its decision on 22 March to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe under Article 80 of the Convention, its withdrawal will be effective on 1 July. This withdrawal was carried out by presidential decree, as you said, when the ratification of this treaty was subject to parliamentary approval. The Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, the President of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Chairman of the Committee of Ministers issued a joint statement, regretting this measure and the fact that it was not preceded by a parliamentary debate. At the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers on 31 March, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe came back extensively and sharply to the announcement of Turkey's withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention. It indicated that it was the first time in the history of the Council of Europe that a Member State withdrew from an important human rights treaty. She stressed that the reasons for Turkey's withdrawal were wrong and misleading, as the treaty was only aimed at protecting women from violence and had nothing to do with so-called gender ideology. This argument, which is used more often and more often, must be countered with facts. In addition, the Secretary-General indicated that the argument that national legislation provides adequate protection against domestic violence is a dangerous argument. It questions our collective system of human rights protection. This argument could also be used to withdraw from the European Convention on Human Rights, for example. Moreover, in most Member States, the standards of the Istanbul Convention are significantly higher than those of national law. In addition, the Istanbul Convention provides for independent international monitoring, which, for example, was the subject of our own country last year. Finally, the Istanbul Convention contains provisions on international cooperation in criminal matters. There is therefore no doubt about the added value of this Convention. The EU delegation to the Council of Europe intervened during the debate with a statement by the High Representative for Foreign Policy, Mr Borrell. In addition, Belgium joined a declaration by similar countries led by Finland, which is currently chairman of the Committee of Contracting Parties. This declaration calls on the Turkish Government, inter alia, to return to its decision, to reject false information and misconceptions about the Convention and calls on all States that have signed it, but not yet ratified, to ratify it quickly in 2021. Belgium and a number of similar European countries also provide for a joint démarche in Ankara, which will send a similar message to the Turkish authorities. Action is also being considered to bring this position to the attention of the Turkish people. As regards the question of linking the upgrading of the customs union with the Istanbul Convention, the European Council has made the upgrading of the customs union conditional on respect for human rights and the rule of law, on the one hand, and a sustainable de-escalation in the eastern Mediterranean, on the other. As regards the question on the resolution recently adopted on a special envoy for women's rights, I took note of this after the adoption by the plenary on 22 April. I would like to draw attention to a number of aspects which have been addressed, inter alia, in the opinions requested from the Foreign Affairs Office. My colleague for development cooperation is of the same opinion. The promotion and protection of gender equality and women's human rights are already priorities in our foreign policy. That's very clear. The mainstream of this is also an integral part of the daily assignments of the FOD. The appointment of a Special Envoy represents the risk of silo formation and the defence of gender equality is best served if it is a cross-cutting priority of the entire diplomatic network. Gender equality at the State Department does not focus on the use of time and resources for concrete initiatives. In any case, I can assure you that our posts, the Foreign Office and myself have been mobilized to defend that convention. I would also like to refer to the situation on the ground. Several Turkish civil society organizations, several bar associations and several opposition political parties have challenged the withdrawal decision before the Council of State and are considering further legal actions. According to a recent opinion poll, almost half of the population disapproves of Turkey's decision to withdraw from the Istanbul Convention and a quarter of the population supports this decision. The remaining quarter cannot decide because of a lack of knowledge of the subject. You see that there is no real unanimity on this, that is the least one can say. As soon as the decision was announced, women's associations and groups began protesting in a large number of provinces, particularly in Istanbul and Ankara. Demonstrations take place every day, often unfortunately violently repressed by the police. Provincial authorities banned these demonstrations on the pretext of the covid pandemic. Several women who participated in demonstrations or issued statements were arrested and detained. Some associations fear that the law adopted to implement the provisions of the Convention would also be called into question. This would inevitably weaken the legislative framework for the protection of women and increase the sense of impunity. Madam President, please forgive the length of my answer, but I know that you are particularly interested in it. It is certainly interesting to go around the events on the spot. In the field, the consequences of the presidential decision already appear to be manifest. Several associations report that women who want to file a complaint face even more difficulties than before and that police officers even refuse to take their statements. Although the Turkish Interior Minister recently stated that the number of cases of violence against women would have decreased by 2021 compared to 2020, these official figures are strongly contested by Turkish civil society organisations. With regard to similar developments in other countries, a distinction should be made between countries that have already ratified the Convention, such as Poland, and countries that have signed the Convention, but have not yet publicly ratified it, such as Hungary, Bulgaria and Lithuania. There are indeed discussions in Poland at the moment about a possible withdrawal. It is feared that Turkey's step may speed up the debate in Poland. Therefore, vigilance for a possible domino effect as a result of the Turkish decision is certainly necessary. In my contacts with my European counterparts, I express precisely the view that Turkish withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention should be a trigger for countries that have not yet ratified it, because it is now that the signal must be given. It is therefore very important to continue to advocate ratification with the countries that have already signed the Convention, as requested in your resolution of 14 January. We go even further, by assisting them wherever possible. Belgium has recently granted financial support to a Council of Europe project in Ukraine, which signed the Convention but has not yet ratified it. The project focuses on raising awareness and raising awareness of the Istanbul Convention and on providing technical assistance to bring about the necessary changes in Ukraine's legislative and institutional framework. We are also investigating the possibility of similar projects elsewhere. As you know, the European Commission has a regular dialogue with the Member States on these issues, in particular with those who - such as Poland and Hungary - are already subject to rule of law procedures. In this case, it closely follows national developments, in particular through the Article 7 procedure. The annual report on the rule of law, published in July, is another instrument. Belgium supports the Commission's efforts and its dialogue-based approach. As I have indicated to you, we regularly speak in the Council's fora to denounce violations of human rights, especially women's rights. We will not fail to reiterate our positions in this regard. The Istanbul Convention is also open for accession by the European Union as a whole, which signed it on 13 June 2017. Belgium expressed its support for the accession of the European Union, based on its broad competences. The next step, namely the ratification of the Convention itself, requires the adoption of a Council decision after approval by the European Parliament. On 9 July 2019, the latter, fervently supporting accession to the Convention, submitted a request for an opinion to the Court of Justice of the European Union in order to verify the compatibility of the proposal for a decision authorising the conclusion of this Convention with European primary law, under Article 218.11 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the Opinion delivered by the Advocate General on 11 March, he concluded that the Union's decision to ratify the Istanbul Convention was compatible with the European Treaties, thus joining Belgium's position heard at the hearing. The institutions are currently awaiting the judgment of the Court of Justice on the request for an opinion before proceeding further. I now answer the questions on the state of relations between the EU and Turkey, the results of the latest European Summit and the visit of the President of the European Commission and the President of the European Council in Ankara on 6 April 2021. The EU welcomes Turkey's de-escalation and more constructive attitude, but also expects it to be sustainable and irreversible. We also want Turkey to adopt a constructive attitude in the UN negotiations on the Cyprus issue and in the talks with Greece on the maritime demarcation in the eastern Mediterranean. Moreover, improving the human rights and democracy situation is a prerequisite for the new dynamics of relations. Furthermore, the EU is committed to continuing to contribute to the reception of refugees in Turkey, but also in Lebanon and Jordan, neighbouring Syria, which only receive very large groups of refugees. A proposal on this subject can soon be expected from the European Commission. The European States and Heads of Government will review relations with Turkey at the June 2021 European Council. If, and only if, the positive trends in relations persist and are sustainable, the States and Heads of Government are prepared to develop a concrete positive agenda on trade, with a better functioning of the customs union, with Turkey also having to respect all commitments, as well as new talks on its possible modernisation. It is also possible to re-establish a number of political dialogues on issues of common interest, such as health, climate, the fight against terrorism, international issues relating to the region. Turkey is expected to resume dialogue on cooperation with the EU on a number of regional issues of common interest, including the situation in Libya. Finally, the European Commission is asked to develop pistes for better mobility and for better interpersonal relations between EU citizens and Turkey. The meeting between the Turkish President, the President of the European Council and the President of the European Commission was therefore strictly within the agreed framework. The EU offers a step-by-step, proportionate and irreversible positive agenda, including human rights and the rule of law as an integral part of the conditions for a sustainable engagement in Turkey. There were many questions, which is why I have been speaking for a long time. And as you can see, the issue of Turkey is very wide. It covers many issues, all of which are related.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u20	I will leave the reply to my colleague Séverine de Lavaleye for the Ecolo-Groen group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u21	Madam Minister, I thank you for this very detailed answer once again. A small preliminary remark to my dear colleagues here who are surprised, offended, etc. I can speak for myself, but also for the MR group. I have no lessons to learn from you, Mrs Van Bossuyt, or from you, Mrs Ponthier, as regards equality in women's rights, gender equality and the necessary progress in this area, including at the international level. Together with my colleagues in the Reform Movement, we have been fighting for years, including in relation to the very worrying development of human rights, especially of women in Turkey. I am full of a delegation that I led in Turkey during the previous parliamentary term, with which we were fortunate and able to act on the lever of parliamentary democracy. This sometimes allows us, as parliamentarians, to take our responsibilities where they are. It allows us to meet the leaders where they are, i.e. in Turkey for representatives of civil society, as well as for representatives of women's organisations who are fighting on a day-to-day basis and who were already fighting while Turkey was still a party to the Istanbul Convention. We deeply regret that this is no longer the case. Together, we have developed and worked on a resolution which, I think, has even been voted almost unanimously to put this issue really at the centre of our discussions and attention. The minister has further explained to us that this is an integral and cross-cutting part of foreign policy. Similarly, this relates to development cooperation and Mrs Schlitz's State Secretariat, in particular. It is important to act and act with a voice. I will never be able to accept criticism of the possibility, which must be ours as Belgian members of the European Union, of having to continue to speak with a voice to defend all these very important issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u22	Madam Minister, political and legal developments are worrying. Conservative groups in Turkey have successfully undermined a legal instrument for the protection of women's rights, as they consider that such a treaty undermines traditional family values. I would remind colleagues that there are also groups in our country that believe that, because of the biological difference between men and women, women should be given less rights. They say it's enough to be a good mother and look good. We will never accept that. That is why it is important that we stand up for the legal instruments that guarantee our rights. 'Sofagate' is indeed poignant and illustrative for Turkish policy. But it also indicates what Turkish women are going through now and will continue to experience in the future. That is why we must defend their rights consistently, both politically and legally. And this in the long term, so also after the indignation about'sophage' will have disappeared.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u23	Deputy Prime Minister, I have rarely heard such a detailed and lengthy response on an important subject. Thank you. However, in the whole episode of the sofagate, we expected a firmer and more united Europe. We have once again witnessed a Europe divided and weak in the face of what must now be called the "dictator" Erdogan. Unfortunately, this sequence was too much after the previous one in which Mr. Borrell was seen ill-treated by the Russians. I am counting on you, Madam Minister for Foreign Affairs, to stop this and finally assert our values, our interests, our security without fear of our shadow, of what we represent, of what we are today – and I hope as long as possible – despite some here who are the heroes of women's rights and who are trying every day to break this Europe. I am counting on you to continue to carry on this European project, a project for the freedom and equality of women and men, a project that is quite rare today on the planet, to which we must pay attention and of which we must be proud. It seems to me that Mr Erdogan unfortunately only hears the firmness of the people whom he may consider to be there to assert their own rights and interests. I urge you to be vigilant, not just on the issue of women's rights. I hear Mrs von der Leyen asking "to demand that Turkey respect women's rights as a prerequisite for the resumption of relations with Ankara". I would like the next European Council in June, which will once again see our relationship with Turkey, to take into account what the President of the European Commission is asking for. I will remind you, beyond the elements that you yourself have reminded us, that Turkey continues to bomb the border with Syria almost daily, where it exports a war while pretending to do everything it can for Syrian refugees, but preventing them from returning to their country one day because it maintains a war there as in the vicinity of Aleppo and in north-eastern Syria. I would also point out that, no later than yesterday, movements of Azerbaijani troops were observed. Azerbaijan is also one of Russia's most loyal allies, who helped him in his conflict over Nagorno-Karabagh. These troop movements are, once again, worrying. In addition, there is also his intervention in Libya. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that when Erdogan deals with retired Turkish admirals who tell him that the Montreux Convention should not be affected... I saw that one of my colleagues was asking a question about it. If he were to question this Montreux Convention, it would be extremely worrying, because it is the free passage through the Dardanelles Strait, in times of peace as well as in times of war. We cannot help thinking that if he put this issue on the agenda, it is precisely because the American fleet recently moved to check what was going on between the Ukrainian border and the Russian border. Once again, Mr Erdogan is not in a positive plan. He has not renounced the violation of human rights or intervened in a series of conflicts, thus seriously endangering our security. I think that we should continue to have an extremely firm agenda with him on these points. He needs us more than we need him. Its economy is now on the ground. Turkish lira has devalued 500 per cent in three years. He knows that he needs us, and we must indeed take this into account in our relations with Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u24	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. First, I'd like to comment on the sofagate. It is a public secret that relations between the Commission President and the President-in-Office of the Council Michel are not optimal. This was highlighted in a harrowing way by the chair incident, in which Erdogan must have really grumbled about the way things were going, which was particularly painful to see. As much as your reaction and the reaction of your MR colleague to all of this may sound here, it is probably to turn the President-in-Office of the Council off the wind, which unfortunately was fierce not to be observed through the official channels, Mrs Jadin. That was very unfortunate. Mrs Jadin, you have been waiting to replicate here the questions of your colleagues to make a statement. Women's rights and equal treatment for women and men are not issues that can be applied selectively. I therefore think that we should allow the seat incident to speak for itself. Luckily, it did. Madam Minister, what is worse is that restrictions are apparently still being taken into account when it comes to the reform of the customs union. We'll see. What I asked about closer economic cooperation and also visa-free travel, I did not hear you deny, so you have confirmed that this opening is still being maintained. That is very regrettable. Sustainable and irreversible are the words of hope you express here when it comes to future relations between the EU and Turkey. We will see where that will take us and also how Erdogan reacts to it. It is also regrettable that an incident such as'soft' was apparently necessary so that some people openly wonder whether the time is not right to put an end to Turkey's still ongoing application for membership of the EU. For us, the cessation of this candidacy is absolutely clear. The many reasons for this are much more important than the chair incident, which can only serve as an expression of the dedain Turkey is looking at the Western world and specifically at the EU. In our view, this dedain must end, with this blackmail policy too, with the sowing of divisions and the repeated abuse of the trust that Turkey is gaining from the EU over and over again and not least from that country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u25	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. First of all, with regard to Mr Dallemagne. I assume that you refer to us, among other things, when you say that we are working daily on, in your words, 'Casser l'Europe'. Do you really think that we are dealing almost every day with 'Casser l'Europe'?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u26	Dear colleague, I have been in this Parliament for a number of years and I can observe all this time that some of your ministers, when they were in government, have done everything possible to ensure that Belgium, which was one of the leaders in European integration, is in the final stages of European progress. There have been very few proposals from the previous government because the N-VA was blocking a whole series of cases, particularly in the field of European defence, and not only, but in a whole series of cases. I am the witness of this and I state it out loud and clear. Indeed, I think you were among the Eurosceptics. If this is no longer the case today, I welcome it. But it was very clearly your important impulse in the previous government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u27	Mr Dallemagne, I've only had you told. I can certainly give you many examples of the opposite. I myself was a Member of the European Parliament during the previous legislature. I should be quite a masochist in order to keep up this function for five years, to sit in the European Parliament and to work from morning to evening, simply to destroy the institution. I would also like to ask you the following. For example, we now have the Prime Minister of Flanders. In what way does Prime Minister Jan Jambon do everything possible to bring Europe to the ground? I really don't understand. It is not because we sometimes raise critical questions about the institution that we want to destroy them. On the contrary, when someone asks critical questions, it is because he or she wants the institution to work better. If you read our programme and the vision we have for our country for the future, you should know very well that there are even areas for which we suggest that you want more Europe. I'm thinking energy and migration. So please do not say that we are doing everything we can to destroy Europe on a daily basis. I just wanted to make that clear for a moment. Madam Minister, I am very pleased to note that everyone regrets the event. I'm glad to see that. It is a pity, however, that regret cannot happen in a more disapproving way. That doesn't have to be with a lot of words. Certainly in our committee we approve many resolutions on human rights violations or violations of women's rights throughout the world. However, when it happens to us here, we can say that'soft' has exceeded a limit, I do not hear any disapproval. Madam Minister, you may not blame me, but from what you have said, I would like to point out that you are particularly sorry that the focus in the post-consultation process was mainly on the incident between the President of the European Commission, Mrs von der Leyen, and the President of the European Council, Mr Michel, and not on the content. I believe that the very first thing that could be said was that it happened was wrong. President of the European Council Michel has an exemplary role. So he could have shown President Erdogan that in Europe women have the same rights as men. He could have done that over there. He had a chance. That didn't happen. I regret that you do not approve of this or that you at least do not indicate that this was a mistake and could have happened in another way. That's too bad. You yourself said in your speech that gender equality is important in foreign policy. The aforementioned could be an example, in order to indicate and demonstrate this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u28	Mrs Van Bossuyt, I had some doubts as to whether I would respond or not, because that is also a way of entering into a debate. It should not always be a kind of similar, non-constructive debate. You say that you think that your colleagues are not at the same level of protecting gender equality, because they have not asked this question. I just told you not to do this. There is no need to make a difference in the ability of each other to defend women's rights around the world in relation to the subject by which they are approached. Forgive me! For the rest, I will confine myself to this discussion. I will ask you, please, out of respect for our debates, not to put words in my mouth, as I am trying not to do for you. Merci!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u29	Madam Minister, I did not put any words in your mouth; on the contrary, I regretted that you did not speak certain words and did not give any appreciation. I think it would be appropriate to say that you did not think what happened there was a good signal. So I did not put any words in your mouth, and I am sorry that you did not make any comments. That's what this is about. You said just now that gender equality is an important issue for foreign policy. I also have a question about women in diplomacy, which you are also very much in favour of. In a case that has been looked at all over the world and on which Europe could have made a clear statement, we have missed the opportunity to make it clear that women are equal. We even gave a pretty much opposite signal. So I had hoped to hear you say at least something about that, but that did not happen. I regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u30	We have heard that, but I believe that you are trying to pursue a distribution and control policy here. I thank the Minister for the very comprehensive answer, which I will certainly read again. A divide-and-control policy plays in the hands of Erdogan, of course. In this way he wins three times: during the incident itself, at European level and now here in Parliament. I would not allow myself to be tempted, as the indignation has proved enough. President Michel has apologized and we have shown through various channels that this was indeed a moment of shame. I am convinced that this was done deliberately and I believe that former Prime Minister Michel cannot be accused of not being in favour of equal rights for women and men. I suspect he's sorry it happened this way, he's expressed it enough. I am surprised at the two sizes and two weights that some parties use here. When it comes to Turkey, our indignation cannot be strong enough, but when it comes to Poland or Hungary and to anti-gender movements, I hear a lot less about some parties. When it comes to those countries, I do not hear much criticism in that regard. I would like to call on you to pull one handle and also to respond to those anti-gender movements, not only when it comes to countries with different religions, but also countries with the same religion, which misinterpret them and give them a traditional form. That is not what we stand for, for the sake of clarity. Madam Minister, you have taken a lot of action, also in consultation with many countries, to respond to this. You haven't had any contact with your homologs or with the ambassador. In the future, it may be important to give that signal promptly. You say you will also receive phones from ambassadors who want to see you promptly, for example in recognition of the Armenian genocide. Perhaps we should also dare to do the opposite. It's pretty new, too. This is about acquired rights that are reversed. We can't react forcefully enough. After all, I fear that it may indeed be copied in other countries and that it may indeed be able to come to Europe. I hope, therefore, that every Member present here will be outraged in the same way and will not be working with two sizes and two weights. I've been in the game for a long time when it comes to equal opportunities. I took part in the Beijing Conference in 1995. I was then a very young cabinet employee of Minister Miet Smet. There are many instruments in Belgium, but perhaps there are far too many and we can no longer see the trees through the forest. There is indeed a need for greater coherence. You also referred to my motion for a resolution on silo formation. I would like to refute that, because this Parliament has asked the question unanimously. The same can of course be said of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, which also has a transversal way of acting, with a specific approach. That is why we also need an instrument to implement that foreign policy, given that our rights are being undermined in this way. Madam Minister, I would like to keep asking you to look at the examples. We need to look at how those 12 very progressive European countries that have an envoy fulfil that function, both transversal and specific. After 26 years of working on equal opportunities, I believe that we need an additional instrument, including in the field of foreign policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u31	Madam Minister, I thank you for your very detailed answer that we received in plenary a month ago. I am pleased that we have taken the initiative to ask you again on this matter. We have heard from you about the many levers that are being used both in our diplomacy and in the European Union or in the Council of Europe, each time with the will to consider respect for women's rights as this unconditional precondition for the resumption of our diplomatic relations with Turkey. You also referred to the important support that must be given to civil society in Turkey, but also to other countries that are now involved. We can only tolerate today, people who peacefully demonstrate for a text as fundamental as the Istanbul Convention are to be arrested. It is up to the European Union and each of its Member States to act to ensure that a contagion effect of this decision is avoided on other countries. This convention protects not only women but also children. The challenge to the Istanbul Convention is also to send a message of impunity to all perpetrators of such violence against women and children. As Members, we have our responsibility to assume and, therefore, to call on our Polish, Hungarian or Turkish counterparts to respect their commitments. A withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention does not take place by presidential decree, it must be endorsed by national parliaments. Both our government and our Parliament have their role to play. If I insist on this, it is because the challenge is really to send a strong message to Turkey and to all the countries that would be tempted to follow it, to avoid this snowball effect, especially at a time when the rights of children and women are so despised. The challenge is also to give the European Union credibility – and here I am making a parallel with the sofagate. This credibility in women's and children's rights, she lost it with the sofagate, whether you want it or not, minister. I regret that you did not want to answer this question because, of course, there are extremist parties that have called on you, but also parties that are committed to the European Union and want to see it strong and credible. Today, there is a petition circulating to obtain the resignation of Charles Michel, President of the European Council. She's got over 10,000 signatures. Among these signatures are those of liberal women. There is also this appeal by liberal MEP Nathalie Loiseau, who rightly reminded us that Europe must not wonder where it should sit, but how it should stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u32	Madam Minister, you began your speech with a very useful message - regardless of why you stated it - and stressed the need to remain united. This seems absolutely obvious to me, in a very worrying international context, given the multiplication of authoritarian heads of State who put a point of honour in dictating their conduct to women. This is particularly the case in the European Union and in the rest of the Western world. Yes, we have no other choice than a homogeneous speech to defend the fundamental principles of human rights in general and women's rights in particular. You were right to recall that this incident was a bad signal and to express your regret accordingly. Since I have not been trained in diplomatic practice, I am not aware of the gradation of the terms that are allowed in this field, especially in view of your position. In any case, beyond the regrets you have expressed, we feel a real concern on your part and on the part of the government with regard to these issues. That's obviously reassuring. In addition to this debate, it is important that the line you are sure to follow corresponds to what Mrs von der Leyen has said. Respect for human rights and women's rights must be the sine qua non for any possible negotiations, whether with Turkey or other countries. In short, such a principle must serve as a compass, even more so than in the past. You warned us against the domino effect. In my view, we have only two strategies: either we agree to be brought back collectively and internationally, or we have to move forward. This last option implies that the European Union ratify the Istanbul Convention. You have presented us with fairly clear perspectives for a next and likely positive conclusion. Moving forward also means considering human rights and women as the basis for any partnership within the European Union, but also between it and external states. Finally, this also implies that Belgium is exemplary in the fight against violence and for equality between women and men. If we want to be able to tell others what to "do" - in any case, tell them the way - we have to start by being exemplary. In this area, we still have a serious road ahead. Of course, I know that you are working towards the best foreign policy in terms of human rights and women in particular. Again, there are still things to be done, with your colleague Mrs Kitir, who has also placed the issue of women's rights at the heart of her policy. Anyway, let's all move on together! It's still a long way to go. We are being pulled backwards, but we should be able to collectively take one step in front of the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u33	Madam Minister, the questions as I had put them have already been a little dated. After all, we are already in the process around the vaccination certificate. I will merge the questions and summarise them. The tourist season is beginning. Many people hope to be able to travel this holiday. In order to ensure that individual Member States do not take all kinds of different measures regarding the conditions for entry into their countries, Europe has taken the initiative to work with a green certificate. Now, here's what we're gonna do. People who have been vaccinated, have a negative test or have antibodies against covid could get such a green certificate. What attitude has Belgium taken to the green certificate so far? What's the status? This morning I read that there are some problems. Moreover, there are again Member States which are starting to take initiatives themselves. Croatia and Greece, two well-known tourist destinations, would already take certain measures vis-à-vis certain travellers. Cyprus has already announced that quarantine would no longer be required if vaccination or the green certificate is in place. The longer it takes to clarify that certificate, the less will there be a clear united European position. That would, of course, also be a pity for the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u34	Mrs Van Bossuyt, this is a very important subject. We, as well as the Commission, are still working on the preparations. You will remember that at the beginning of this process there was talk of a Green Pass. That seems to be about a passport, a way to travel. We said immediately that it cannot be a passport or a travel document. It could be a certificate harmonised between the different states. This is an important step in the right direction because today we need proof of a PCR test if we are going to another country. Each country also has its own way of applying the quarantine. So a harmonised certificate: yes, a passport: no. That is a first very clear point of view from Belgium. A second position of Belgium, for which we have always argued in Belgium and Europe, is that vaccination should not be an obligation. If the operationalisation is linked to a fundamental freedom, this means that vaccination is de facto compulsory. That is a very important point for us. This harmonised certificate should help us to travel better and easier, but it should not be an obligation to vaccination. We are still in consultation on this. We await the Commission's progress in this area. There are a lot of meetings and discussions about this certificate because they would like to use it for the summer. If that's possible, that's fine. The government will also welcome this, but only if the certificate meets the two conditions I have just discussed. Another point is the question of what might be in the certificate. The question whether the holder has been vaccinated can be answered by yes or no, as well as the question whether the person concerned has undergone a PCR test, with the negative result of that test, of course, because otherwise they will not travel to the country in question. There is also discussion about immunity. There are still discussions to be held, not to define what immunity means, but because there are still questions about the duration of immunity, for example. There is now a debate on whether a country can decide for itself how long immunity is valid, from what level, etc. Several questions are therefore still unanswered. Each country can decide for itself, as access to a country belongs to the competence of each individual country. Each country may also decide on the rights to be granted to the certificate. This includes the question of whether or not future people should be quarantined under certain conditions and, if so, what form that quarantine should take. This is also very important for the purposes of travel. It is quite possible that this will serve as an example for the rest of the world, as each country faces the same problems with respect to the pandemic. Finally, discussions are also taking place, although earlier within the countries themselves, on whether it can be useful to use the certificate also for domestic matters. For example, countries can give more freedoms to holders of certificates in their own countries. Our government does not intend to do so, but the subject is on the agenda in the light of the development of the certificate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u35	Madam Secretary, it is important that the certificate does not become a type of ticket. We must avoid that, especially as long as not everyone has had the chance to be vaccinated. That is certainly not the case at the moment. Last week, I asked Prime Minister De Croo about the quarantine. He said at the time that the mandatory quarantine was European. Today, however, I read that Cyprus no longer imposes quarantine. This creates confusion, and agreements on this need to be made at European level. The same applies to non-essential travel outside Europe. Belgians are still not allowed to make non-essential trips outside Europe, but we see that flights to destinations outside Europe do indeed leave for non-essential travel at Schiphol Airport. Of course, this is not very positive for European unity and it causes uncertainty for the citizen. If that certificate is to be issued, it is important that it be done as soon as possible. Furthermore, the rules must be clear and all 27 Member States must support them. However, I am somewhat afraid of that. I have already referred to Cyprus, but I might as well refer to Greece and Croatia. We see that they, too, already provide for exceptions for vaccinated third-country nationals. It will therefore be very important to make clear agreements on this, otherwise we will find ourselves in a situation similar to last year. For one country, a particular country is then a red zone while for another country it is an orange zone. Last year, for example, there were flights from Brussels to Malta, whereas that was a red zone for Belgians. Belgians who had booked a trip were therefore not allowed to leave but could not get their money back because the flight was not cancelled. However, the Dutch were able to fly from Schiphol to Malta. We really must avoid such situations, we must learn from what happened last summer. People are already on their gums and we must offer them a clear perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u36	I shall pass the floor to Mrs Jadin for her question No 55014761C on the arrests of opponents in Georgia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u37	Mr President, that will not be necessary. This question dates back to February 25 and many things have changed. I therefore propose, if everyone agrees, to turn it into a written question and I will read the answer with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u38	Question No 55014761C by Mrs Jadin is therefore transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u39	Madam Secretary, the prison camp in Al-Hol is empty without any control. It is reported that six Belgian women and twelve children are currently staying in that camp, but because the Kurdish authorities have lost sight of the situation, that is not certain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u40	Madam Minister, a few weeks ago we learned that some 50 Belgian children under 12 were in the camps of Al-Hol and Roj and were to be repatriated to Belgium. Could you please tell me what the deadlines and practical arrangements for the repatriation of some 50 children are or have already been made? What is the status of contacts with the Kurdish authorities in this regard? What means and initiatives have been put in place and developed in Syria to prevent children who are not repatriated or during the period of their repatriation from being subjected to inhuman and degrading treatment? What contacts are made with federated entities to provide follow-up, if necessary, to repatriated children, especially those without parents?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u41	Mr President, Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u42	On 4 March, the Prime Minister, who is also the chairman of the National Security Council, explained the new repatriation policy of Belgian children and possibly mothers who are foreign terrorist fighters, in plenary. A number of Members have asked very specific operational questions about this. I will therefore give a specific answer, at least as far as my department is concerned. I'll go over your questions one by one. Mr Metsu, DNA tests have not yet been carried out on the children in the camps in northeast Syria. Twenty-seven children would be eligible for testing. DNA samples could be collected on site, which could possibly be analysed in Belgium. The determination of what is sufficient ground for admission to Belgian territory for children born in Syria and who do not have a birth certificate is a competence of the Foreign Affairs Office. Mrs Samyn, Belgian women and children are still staying in the camps in Northern Syria. My services are aware of two women of Belgian nationality, one with two children in detention in Damascus. To your question about the possible interception by Interpol or Europol of FTFs, I would also refer you to the Minister of the Interior, Mrs Verlinden. Furthermore, I do not have any information to determine the possibility of whether or not to reconnect with Daesh by potentially escaped Belgian FTFs in Syria. For more information on the profile of FTFs on the one hand and the level of threat on the other, please refer to the OCAD and other security and intelligence services and the competent Minister of the Interior and Justice. Your last question was about the children of Nora Verhoeven. They're kindergarten. I will reply to Mr Francken's questions, since it is important to know that the Belgian nationality of mothers and children born in Belgium is of course established. A provisional passport could be issued to them in the context of a possible return. For the children born in Syria, a DNA analysis could be used to determine the biological origin. If such a test is positive, the Foreign Affairs Office could issue a laissez-passer with a visa for Belgium. The determination of nationality is a competence of the FPS Justice and should be established subsequently in Belgium by judicial means. My department is responsible for the effective issue of travel documents, following the consent of the National Security Council. For security reasons, I cannot give you details of the practical arrangements or timing for the possible repatriation of children from the camps, and I will not do so. The de facto local authorities in the camps in north-eastern Syria run the camps where Belgian women and children are also found. For this reason, contacts at the administrative level with these de facto authorities are essential, particularly in order to obtain information and to see if possible repatriation of children is possible. Currently, Belgium is examining how it could support projects to improve living conditions in camps in north-eastern Syria where Belgian nationals are also present. In addition, the Convention on the Rights of the Child is one of the most ratified treaties in the world, including Syria. In discussions with local de facto authorities in north-eastern Syria, they have always indicated that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is an important instrument of their policy. Follow-up of children after possible repatriation will be the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Justice and Communities. I would like to refer you to my competent colleagues in this regard. I just want to clarify something, considering how I answered your questions. First, we must be aware that the return of children is a priority for us. This dynamic is guided by the child's imperative right to protection. This dynamic is decided within the National Security Council and, of course, we are not content to think about what is going on. We are thinking about how to bring them back, but also what will happen next. The various ministers and ministries concerned have obviously been asked to ensure that the fate of children, once they have returned here to Belgium, is monitored, not in the short term, but in the long term. Some children have already returned from these camps. Depending on the feedback I have, it's going pretty well, and so much the better for them. For the rest, we are working on the operationalization of things; do not believe for a second that we are wasting time. I hope that reassures you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u43	Madam Minister, last month Prime Minister De Croo said that it was decided at the National Security Council to look at the IS widows, i.e. the mothers of those children, on a case-by-case basis and to analyse whether they could be repatriated. He said that national security remains the criterion. It would still be wrong that the security of our people would be subordinated to the fate of these terrorists and their accomplices. You are right to talk about the right and fate of these children, but repatriating the children without mothers is a utopia. These women don't want to distance themselves from their children, by the way. These IS widows are responsible for the appalling condition in which they raise their children. In addition, they consciously chose to go to Syria. Worse still, they even took part in the atrocities there. For the Flemish Interest there is no place for them in our society anymore. They must be held and tried in the region where they committed their crimes. A prison sentence in Belgium would mean that they would be released within a few years, as the maximum prison sentence for a member of a terrorist organisation would be a maximum of five years. Indeed, national security remains the criterion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u44	Madam Minister, I understand the framework in which we are, namely, that this is not a closed session, but that the security situation sometimes prevails over the need for information and transparency. In any case, I note the end of your answer, namely the acts which, if they cannot be mentioned, I am sure, are effective. Thank you. I am pleased to know that the administrations are working on this, that contacts exist and that children are our priority within the framework, inter alia, determined by the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. It's a commitment you're making. If I remain a little on my hunger for the content of the answers, I am totally reassured about the policy pursued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u45	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. This is all a bit new, because there are different agreements than we had made in the past. So there are a lot of questions left. Why did you explain? We do not agree with the reason why. I asked questions today about how to do that. You have given a few brief answers. We haven't run any DNA tests yet. 27 children are eligible. Those samples might be analysed in Belgium, but how are we going to do that and who is going to do that? Nor did I receive an answer to my last question. Will the government continue to repatriate if the mothers refuse the DNA test? Well, that's a pertinent question for me too, isn't it? Then I would also like to talk about the right of child and mother. We had a departureer from Vilvoorde not so long ago, Noura Firoud, who returned. Of course she gets five years in jail. Normally one can be released in Belgium after three years, which is far too short, but she was released after five months, even without an ankle bracelet. Then I'll join the colleague. Is this in the interests of our national security? This is a dossier that you will also be awake about, but we are equally awake, so forgive us the difference of opinion and the critical questions that we will have to continue to ask, also in the interests of our national security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u46	Mr President, I can confirm that our embassy in Bogota regularly informs the department of the developments of the trial against former President Uribe, which you mentioned in your question. The voluntary resignation of Álvaro Uribe as a senator allowed for the lifting of his house arrest in October 2020 and the transfer of the Supreme Court case to an ordinary court. In early March 2021, the Colombian Public Prosecutor's Office announced that it would request that the case be closed without further action. The court may accept or reject this request. In both cases, an appeal may be filed. In the event of an appeal, cassation proceedings will probably be possible in the Supreme Court. The case is expected to last until the parliamentary and presidential elections in the first half of 2022 and is obviously likely to worsen the already highly polarized political climate. Uribe still has a lot of political influence and his supporters believe that the highest courts have organized a political witch hunt. With regard to the murders of the members of Unión Patriótica, including the six members of the Congress between 1986 and 1994, I can inform you that these murders have finally been recorded as one of the seven major cases by the Special Court for Peace, which should allow the resumption of legal proceedings. In general, it can be said that despite the persistent risks, the security situation of parliamentarians is less problematic than in the 1980s and 1990s. However, a recent scandal of clandestine listening could be a potential violation of the rights of parliamentarians. There are 130 people, including perhaps some politicians, who are said to have been listened to and followed by one of Colombia's military intelligence services. As little progress has been made so far, it is not yet clear that parliamentarians are among the victims. On the other hand, the situation of human rights defenders in Colombia remains, unfortunately, very worrying. In 2020, the High Commissioner for Human Rights recorded the murder of 133 human rights defenders in the country. Since 29 December 2020, 17 human rights defenders have died. Belgium has intervened on several occasions in international fora, including at the United Nations Security Council during our 2019-2020 mandate. Colombia is the subject of quarterly discussions in the Security Council. During the debate on 21 January, Council members stressed that much progress was still needed to implement the action plan of the "Global Programme of Guarantees for Women Leaders and Human Rights Defenders". The European Union continues to place the protection of human rights defenders on the bilateral agenda with Colombia. Several initiatives have been put in place to actively support human rights defenders there. On the Belgian side, too, this issue is systematically addressed in our bilateral contacts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u47	Minister, thank you for this particularly detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u48	Mr President, Madam Minister, a few weeks ago, B-FAST was preparing a mission to Guinea, affected by a new outbreak of Ebola. However, a few days before its launch, it appears that this mission was cancelled without explanation. This did not fail to surprise, both in form and in substance, the personnel deployed on the ground and those who hoped to be able to leave. Could you tell me what was planned as a mission? What were the planned objectives and means? For what reasons has this cancellation been decided? What political arbitrations have been made? What are the potential consequences of this cancellation on the local situation? What are the prospects for this mission? Is it just a simple postponement or cancellation? Have the current events changed? Have you had a diplomatic return from Guinea on this decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u49	Mr President, Mr Defossé, with regard to the B-FAST mission to Guinea, I can give you some details. Firstly, the B-FAST Planning Committee had initially worked on a proposal to send a mobile laboratory and a team of six people to Guinea with the aim of increasing Guinea's capacity to carry out Ebola tests. However, after various contacts with our Guinean interlocutors, it became clear that this offer of expertise and equipment did not meet Guinea's demands, which were rather focused on reactive needs. However, Belgium does not keep in stock the reagents necessary for carrying out these tests, particularly in view of their perishable nature. The B-FAST Coordination Board therefore decided to suspend the proposed shipment and instructed the Planning Committee to explore other options for providing assistance to Guinea. This Sunday, 18 April, following a new request for assistance from Guinea in the fight against covid-19 this time, Belgium, still via the emergency mechanism B-FAST, transported a cargo of 760,000 masks to Guinea. Our country's assistance seems to have been even more appreciated as the current stock of masks in Guinea is very limited, making it difficult to manage the health crisis on the spot. The Guinean Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Health, as well as the Directors General of the National Health Security Agency and the Central Pharmacy of Guinea were all present for the delivery of materials donated by Belgium organized by our Chargé d'affaires in Conakry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Fortunately, news from Guinea today seems more reassuring about the situation with regard to the Ebola virus. With regard to the question of the beginning of March, there is a positive development, although greater vigilance will have to be maintained. I am pleased to hear that we can also adapt our service offer to Guinea, depending on the situation, in this case for the Covid-19. Our diplomatic engagement in Guinea is active and positive. Guinea is always counting on us as a privileged partner. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u51	Madam Minister, I refer to the written version of my questions. 55014908C and 55016791C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u52	The Belgian national vaccination strategy provides for the vaccination of foreigners residing in Belgium, including the staff of foreign diplomatic missions, consulates and international organisations established in Belgium, and their family members living in Belgium. In this context, some international institutions and organisations with which our country has concluded headquarters agreements have decided, in consultation with the competent federal and federated authorities, to provide a number of vaccination centres for their staff to facilitate the deployment of the vaccination strategy on Belgian territory. They follow the conditions laid down by our country, such as the use of the vaccines approved by the EEA, and the calendar of the vaccination campaign. The vaccination is covered by the prevention aspect in health care, which is the competence of the federated entities. The latter are responsible for the implementation of the Belgian vaccination strategy and, together with the Public Health Office, can communicate the exact figures on the number of vaccines ordered for use in Belgium. At the end of 2020, the Task Force Vaccination decided to include all legally residing in Belgium in the vaccination campaign and to provide them with a vaccine for the placed orders. This includes the members of the diplomatic international community in Belgium and their family members. The information that Belgium would not allow the United States to inoculate its own diplomatic staff and the locally recruited staff of the US diplomatic mission in Belgium is not correct. Following the announcement by the Public Health Office, the US Embassy was informed that it could proceed with the vaccination of its staff. The Directorate for Foreign Affairs then received further questions from the British Embassy, which has already been answered, as well as from the embassies of Chile and the United Arab Emirates. These questions will continue to be followed up with the Federal Minister for Health, to whom I also refer for more information on the vaccination campaign, vaccination centres and the number of vaccines ordered. In addition, I can confirm that the sent agents of the Federal Public Service and of the federated entities were included in the national vaccination strategy so that those who do not have access to a vaccine recognised by the EEA abroad are given the opportunity to be vaccinated in Belgium. Finally, as regards Belgians abroad, there are currently 195,500 Belgians registered in the consular population registers in countries outside the European Union. In several of these countries, they have access to a vaccine approved by the EEA. The Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health, on a proposal from the Task Force on Vaccination, approved a number of general principles for Belgian nationals residing abroad. They will be vaccinated as far as possible in their country of residence. If this is not possible with a vaccine approved by the EEA or according to the vaccination calendar used in Belgium, they will be able to be vaccinated in Belgium. This is a list of 146 countries and territories comprising, on the one hand, the countries on the OECD DAC list as recipients of ODA aid, and, on the other hand, countries and territories which are not on that list but do not administer any vaccine approved by the EEA. The adult Belgians who are registered in the population register of the consular post as living in one of those 146 countries will be contacted with the request to indicate their interest in vaccination in Belgium. The partners of foreign nationality, as well as adult children of foreign nationality of those Belgians living under the same roof, will have access to vaccination under the same conditions as those Belgians. Last but not least, the vaccination will take place in a vaccination centre as for Belgian residents. With regard to the question of whether the persons concerned can choose their vaccine, the practical arrangements will be worked out with the competent regional health authorities in Belgium, which will ensure that the vaccination procedure continues. We have already dealt with this question last time; you can see that progress has been made in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u53	Madam Minister, thank you very much for the answer. I do not think you have answered the question whether vaccines for foreign diplomats in Belgium that are vaccinated here are included in the vaccines ordered by Belgium. You can also give me the answer afterwards. I am particularly pleased to hear that progress has been made in the meantime with regard to vaccination of Belgians who are staying abroad and who may not have too much confidence in the local authorities as regards vaccinations. I have received several e-mails about this from concerned countrymen. They say that they can buy any vaccine on the black market if they so wish, but they absolutely do not know whether those vaccines have been properly stored, for example. They do not therefore know whether they will be effectively protected if they are vaccinated with them. If I have understood your answer correctly, Belgians living in 146 countries, although subject to certain conditions, will still have the opportunity to be vaccinated in Belgium. This will be reassuring for many expats and other Belgians abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u54	Minister, in a report, Amnesty is calling for an alert to the situation in Tigray province. This Ethiopian province has been the scene of clashes between Ethiopian and Eritrean troops on the one hand and the Tigray People's Liberation Front (FLPT) on the other for months. At the heart of this conflict, hundreds of civilians have been massacred. Minister, what is our country's response in international forums to this very worrying situation? What can be put in place to try to bring about peace solutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u55	Minister, this conflict is far from the spotlight of the European media. Yet it is a dirty war that is happening in the Tigray Region of Ethiopia. Several sources, including Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, have confirmed that Eritrean troops have been involved since the beginning in operations in Tigray and have killed hundreds of civilians, including women and children. Attacks also target health centres. Many cases of violence and other sexual assault have also been reported. The United Nations estimates that three quarters of the population are in need of humanitarian assistance. The ICRC is talking about more than a million displaced people. Minister, what is the federal government's response to reports of war crimes and even crimes against humanity? Antony Blinken spoke of ethnic cleansing of civilian populations in Tigray. What concrete actions does Belgium envisage to put an end to these violations of international humanitarian law? For several weeks, the Ethiopian Prime Minister has announced that Eritrean troops will leave the territory. Unless we're mistaken, these troops have still not withdrawn. How can we press for the withdrawal of these troops, who seem to be responsible for the most serious abuses? Does Belgium support sanctions? I have the impression that, for the time being, no additional political or financial measures have been taken by the Foreign Affairs Council at European level and that the only sanction imposed is a visa and assets freeze ban for the head of Eritrean national security, General Abraha Kassa. Are other sanctions planned or could they be taken to put pressure on the Ethiopian Government, but also on the Eritrean Government, with the aim of improving access to humanitarian aid in Tigré? Finally, Madam Minister, could you give us information about the content of the report by the Finnish Foreign Minister, Pekka Haavisto, who returned from her second mission to the region on behalf of the European Union and who reported very recently to the Foreign Affairs Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u56	Mr President, you are right to say that this conflict is largely forgotten. Yet, Madam Minister, there is a large-scale massacre in camera. Unfortunately, there have been other crises in this country. He suffered the war from 1974 to 1991, starvation from 1984 to 1985. At the time, I was a young doctor and I was in Mekele, Tigray, for Médecins sans frontières. So I know the area well. The Tigray then benefited from a peace which unfortunately did not last but during which it was able to develop and which allowed an increase of 20 years in the life expectancy of its inhabitants. Since 4 November 2020, an extremely deadly war has again struck this people and a major tragedy has taken place. The humanitarian situation is disastrous. According to the latest bulletin issued by the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) on 13 April, 4.5 million people would not be able to feed themselves without external assistance, 1.7 million Tigrayans would have left their homes and 62,000 would have fled their country to the Sudan, not to mention thousands of deaths. According to the UN, fighting continues between the federal army, the Eritrean army and the supplantive militias against the Tigray rebellion. In addition, forced displacement and denial of assistance to the Tigrayians by local authorities and armed groups are regrettable. High Representative Josep Borrell recently stated that: "There are reports of extensive destruction, mass looting, extrajudicial killings, systematic rape and gender-based violence, forced returns of refugees, allegations of ethnic cleansing and war crimes. This major crisis threatens to destabilize an already fragile region. For the European Union, helping to end human rights violations in the Tigray region and restoring peace in Ethiopia is a top priority." My questions, of course, are similar to those of my colleagues. What are the efforts of Belgian diplomacy and European diplomacy to try to put an end to this war and help this population better? What are the results of the visits by the Finnish Foreign Minister who has been mandated by the European Union to express European concerns and, above all, to try to resolve this major conflict in eastern Africa?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reports of violations and abuses of the most basic human rights in Tigray are indeed of great concern, in particular – as was mentioned at the last Foreign Affairs Council – the use of rape as a weapon of war, which, in addition to everything else, is particularly shocking. I am struck by the multiplicity and seriousness of allegations from recognized international sources as well as Ethiopian sources. We remain faithful to the position we have repeatedly expressed since the first allegations were made at the end of 2020, that is to say, that Belgium hopes that comprehensive independent investigations can shed full light on these tragic events, under the authority of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. In this regard, I welcome the commitment of the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission to collaborate with the services entrusted to Mrs Bachelet. It is now also necessary to start this work as soon as possible in order to establish the facts, the responsibilities, including what could constitute crimes against humanity. Once finalized, we will be able to use these surveys to determine the next steps. Although the situation must be taken into account, talking about sanctions at this stage would probably be counterproductive. I would also remind you that Eritrea was already targeted on 22 March by European sanctions for human rights violations. Our diplomatic commitment is twofold. On the one hand, we are increasing our contacts with the Ethiopian authorities, which gives us an opportunity to assert our position. For example, this was still the case in my office, on 22 March 2021, with the Ethiopian Ambassador in Brussels, where allegations of human rights violations were largely addressed. On the spot, I will report the mission of our ambassador to Mekele, capital of Tigray, on March 10, 2021. On the other hand, Belgium takes a position at European and multilateral level. I thus intervened before the UN Human Rights Council on 24 February 2021, calling specifically for the withdrawal of Eritrean troops. At the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union on 19 April 2021, in order to underline the seriousness of the situation, I called for the European Union and its Member States to invoke the principle of the responsibility to protect. This is the principle of the responsibility to protect (R2P) in the context of the Tigray crisis. This approach is specifically designed to prevent war crimes, ethnic cleansing and genocide. This principle, intended to protect the civilian population, applies primarily to national authorities, but also, where appropriate, to the international community. The ultimate role is reserved for the Security Council. Following regular meetings since last November, again under the leadership of our country, the country took a stand for the first time on 22 April. It expresses its concern about the humanitarian situation and human rights violations. It also affirms its support for regional peace initiatives. Belgium will remain vigilant with regard to the fulfilment of the most recent Ethiopian commitments concerning humanitarian access to all areas of Tigray, cooperation with the United Nations and the withdrawal of Eritrean troops. I remember that Ethiopia also made commitments in a bilateral discussion we had with its representatives. I'm telling you without naivety. Of his mission on the spot, my Finnish colleague, Haavisto, considers in particular the importance of maintaining dialogue. Furthermore, in line with Belgian positions, he called on the European Union to continue to stress that better humanitarian access was essential, that hostilities must cease, that civilians must be protected and that there was no military solution to the conflict. We must regret to note that, so far, African regional organizations have also struggled to make their voices heard in this conflict. However, it remains of the utmost importance that a solution also takes into account the regional dimension of this conflict if it is to be sustainable. I mentioned this again this week with Mr Biruta, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Rwanda. We know that Rwanda, as part of the African Union, could perhaps have a position that would make use of the levers. He told me of his fears about the humanitarian situation and his desire to be able to access it as quickly as possible; but also of those convictions, repeated by the Ethiopian representatives at our meeting, that it is in their eyes – and you will understand that we do not share this analysis – an internal conflict. A €4 million humanitarian grant was granted by Minister Kitir to the ICRC for its operation in Ethiopia, for its protection and prevention activities. ICRC is an actor who can respond adequately and rapidly to the needs of those affected by the conflict, including victims of sexual violence. I would also point out that the European Union has allocated €63.2 million to humanitarian projects in Ethiopia for the year 2020 and that an additional €53.7 million has just been released for the most vulnerable population. I still answer Mrs Van Hoof's question, which was not there, because it concerns the fate of women, children and young people, and in particular the defence of their rights in conflict situations. It is also a major concern, and I systematically call for attention to be paid to it. That is why we insisted that this should be explicitly mentioned in the conclusions of the Council of the European Union of 11 March. All refugees and displaced persons within and beyond Tigray must, of course, be effectively protected, including against any act of resettlement or forced return. The behaviour of Eritrean troops prompted Belgium to request their immediate departure. I have already had the opportunity to say that ethnic targeting is likely to lead the country on a dangerous slope. A change in the country's internal borders would require a revision of the Constitution. Finally, there was also a question about the impact of this conflict on refugee flows to Belgium or Europe. This is a question that cannot be answered precisely at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u58	Mr President, I would be angry to say that this answer was no more than complete. Perhaps I don't hear very well anymore, but it seems to me that there is sometimes a hearing problem in the response. That's a small point about the technique. We can only reiterate what my colleague Cogolati said. This is a very low-profile subject and war, with some strategic and geostrategic consequences, including for the European Union. The steps taken, whether by Belgium at bilateral level, as you have done, or through the European Union, to make its voice heard in the United Nations, must of course be taken on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u59	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer without a language of wood. I was reading this morning a dossier from the newspaper Le Soir, which referred to the syndrome of an African Yugoslavia. I believe that we all have a moral but also a legal responsibility in international law to prevent and punish these crimes against humanity. You have actually used this term as well. I will keep two things from your intervention. First, your call for independent United Nations investigations. I believe that it is important to put an end to these atrocities and, in order to put an end to them, we must also put an end to impunity. You also referred to the R2P concept. I believe that, indeed, we are talking here not about a purely internal conflict, which would be confined to the borders of the Tigray region of Ethiopia, but about atrocities, massacres against civilian populations and violations of women's rights, among other things. Mrs Van Hoof could go back to that in her reply. Again, we really have obligations erga omnes, as they say in international law, to put an end to these atrocities. Parliament will support you in this approach vis-à-vis the Eritrean and Ethiopian governments, in order to stop the horror on the spot. I now give the floor to President Van Hoof and give her this heavy task of animating our debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u60	Madam Secretary, I will not replicate, as I have not heard your answer. I will certainly read your answer. I agree with what my colleague has said.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u61	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply and to congratulate you on the humanitarian aid provided by Belgium and the European Union – as well as on the other steps that are being taken. However, let me be less appreciative of the diplomatic response. We remain essentially in the incantatory register. Indeed, we express our desire for dialogue, hoping – without believing too much, as you have acknowledged – that the Ethiopian government will change its policy. For my part, I believe that it is time to act on other levers. In view of the gravity of the crimes, it was necessary to have recourse to the International Criminal Court. The Nobel Prize awarded to this Ethiopian leader is totally scandalous. I don't know what measures to take to take it away from him, but it no longer makes any sense and terribly devalues this prestigious reward. And then, although my colleague Cogolati did not mention this in his reply, we did not hear much about sanctions against the government in question. We have to stop this massacre. Unfortunately, the incantations and diplomatic procedures have shown little value in this case. Therefore, we will most certainly have to move on to other measures, to try to save the lives of these people and to stop the practice of rape as a weapon of war. This is totally intolerable, and it is our responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u62	Madam Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the problem of the company currently handling visa applications for Belgium from Beijing. This issue has already been widely publicized by Canada, Australia and New Zealand. In fact, it is now known that this company, under the direction of the government office in charge of public security, police and social order of the municipality of Beijing, is the same service which provides, for example, extracts of criminal records to Chinese citizens who request it. It seems to me essential to question the potential implications of this use of this private company for the integrity of the personal data processed in connection with applications for immigration and asylum of Chinese citizens in Belgium, at a time when human rights in China are being undermined more than ever, in Xinjiang, inner Mongolia, Hong Kong or Tibet. Are personal information, biometrics of people's passports, e.g. of Uyghur origin applying for a visa for Belgium, really protected? Can we trust this private company as the Chinese government is apparently able to access it? Could you, like Australia and Canada, ask for an investigation into the consequences of such subcontracting on the confidentiality of the personal data of Chinese applicants for a Belgian visa?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u63	Minister, visa applications for Belgium in Beijing have been managed by the Beijing Shuangxiong Foreign Service Company (BSFSC) for the past 15 years through Visa Applications Reception Centres which directly collect personal information, biometric data, and passports of persons applying for a visa for Belgium, and which are then transmitted to the Belgian consular authorities. However, it turns out that the BSFSC is under the direction of the government office in charge of public security, police and social order in the municipality of Beijing. The BSFSC, working hand in hand with the Beijing government, can therefore have a very precise view of the cases accepted or rejected by Belgium. Such practices directly threaten the security of sensitive information and the independence of the Belgian migration system, and in my view constitute unacceptable interference on the part of Beijing. Knowing that China operates extremely precise and sophisticated social surveillance, supported by state-of-the-art technology (including biometric data), it seems essential to consider the potential implications for the integrity and security of personal data processed in connection with applications for immigration and asylum of Chinese citizens wishing to travel to Belgium. This company, BSFSC, manages visa applications for countries other than ours. Canada and Australia have initiated investigations into the operation of their visa application centres in China that use the same company. What is their information on this worrying issue? Are you considering, like Canada and Australia, an in-depth examination of Belgium's collaboration with this company? The contract of the parent company, which manages BSFSC, expires in June 2021. It's a company called VFS Global. Is there any review or renegotiation of this contract? What guarantees do we have that data transiting from this Chinese company to the Belgian consulate is not passed on to the Chinese police who work directly with this company? What are the exact protection mechanisms in place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u64	Colleagues, Belgium has been working with the external VFS service provider in China since 2007 to receive visa applications. Beijing Shuangxiong Foreign Service Company, better known by its acronym BSFSC - and I will call it that from now on - is the local partner of VFS in Beijing. VFS, like other foreign companies operating in China, is requested to work with a local licensed partner. VFS works in China with so-called facility management companies, for services such as office rental, administrative personnel management, Visa Reception Centres. VFS identifies these facilities as part of its service delivery. Some 20 other States, including many other countries in the Schengen area, such as Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Italy and Sweden, use the services of VFS China with the same Visa Applications Centres. The contract with VFS contains provisions on the protection of personal data of visa applicants, and this contract has been amended with an addendum on compliance with the European GDPR Directive. Belgium attaches great importance to the fulfilment of this obligation, as you may expect. When asked by FPS Foreign Affairs, VFS confirms its commitments and obligations with regard to data protection and security of processing and management of visa applications and reception centres. It further recalls that, prior to their appointment, all employees are subject to a thorough verification of their identity, honourability and criminal record. All visa application data is fully encrypted at their point of entry and securely transferred directly to secure servers. Finally, Belgian consular posts, which work with an external service provider such as VFS for the reception of visa applications, conduct inspection visits, also unannounced, to the Visa Applications Reception Centres, as provided for in European legislation. The last inspection visit to Beijing was conducted in February by our embassy on the spot with a few colleagues from other Western embassies. The contract with VFS Global expiring in June 2021, a new public procurement was launched. The various offers for China are currently under review. It should be noted that passage through the external service provider is not mandatory. A limited number of slots are still reserved for visa applicants wishing to apply directly to the consular post. Having said that, we know that the Chinese authorities are in any case exercising strict control, including over the issuance of passports, as well as over the entry and exit of the territory. Visa issuance activity is obviously essential in our relationship with China. The use of an external service provider by many countries greatly facilitates the receipt of a large number of visa applications, particularly in cities where a consular mission is not available. Foreign affairs will therefore remain vigilant and will continue to focus, together with the other states concerned, on this issue, which is part of the broader context of the deployment of advanced technologies for social surveillance purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u65	Madam Minister, thank you. I call on us here not to be naive. It is true that this service provider has direct reports of subordination. As you said, it is under the strict control of the Chinese authorities, the Chinese authoritarian regime, the police. I believe that it is not an exaggeration to say that there is a risk for data protection and even for the respect of the human rights of persons applying for a visa for Belgium. If I understood you correctly, there is no remedy that is necessary for such a claimant. I really invite us to see to what extent, together with other concerned states such as Canada and Australia, we cannot move towards human rights investigations in the leadership of this service provider.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm still extremely worried. I don't know if this monitoring visit to Beijing included cybersecurity specialists. It is known that Chinese intrusions are very sophisticated and not necessarily easy to detect. It would have been interesting to know a little more about this control held in Beijing in February. Generally speaking, it is unacceptable to work with a partner who himself outsources to a company that is under the direction of the government office in charge of public security, the police and the social order of the municipality of Beijing. That seems unacceptable to me. I would like this contract to be broken anyway because there is a conflict of interest and a clear risk to the safety of people applying for visas. It is these people who alert the parliamentarians who are calling you today because these people are extremely worried. I therefore ask that this contract be stopped and that a real cybersecurity investigation be carried out because I would not be surprised to learn that there are data that are used by the Chinese authorities, as they generally do, to be able to control and possibly to exert pressure on people who would apply for visas for Belgium. Madam Minister, I ask you to be extremely vigilant in this matter and to stop this contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u67	Colleagues, I want to make some arrangements. Because this committee is taking place in the plenary room, we have a more lively and prolonged physical debate. I have examined with the Minister how we will proceed. We would conclude today around 7 p.m., but with the additional condition that we conclude this fate of questions next Tuesday morning. There will then be no additional questions and new questions will have to be submitted after Tuesday unless, of course, something big happens in between. Anybody mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u68	Question No 55014963C by Mr Samuel Cogolati is transformed into a written question. Questions Nos 55014975C and 55016768C by Mrs Anneleen Van Bossuyt are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u69	I can assure you that Belgium is following human rights developments in China with the utmost attention. We share the concerns of the international community about the situation in Tibet, the forced labour and the conditions in which some people are being held. The situation in Tibet is one of the issues that we raise with the Chinese authorities, both bilaterally and in the context of EU-China relations. In this context, we regret that the European dialogue on human rights did not take place in 2020. Belgium expresses its concern about the situation in Tibet also in multilateral fora. On human rights, Belgium and its European partners supported the statements by the High Representative Josep Borrell calling on China to grant unrestricted access to independent observers, including High Commissioner Michelle Bachelet. Such unhindered access is essential to enable an independent, impartial and transparent assessment of the serious concerns expressed by the international community towards China. With regard to the global human rights sanctions regime, as you know, together with my European colleagues, on 22 March we decided to introduce restrictive measures against several individuals and entities responsible for serious human rights violations and violations in various countries of the world. In this context, four prominent figures and one Chinese entity were subject to sanctions in view of their involvement in the repression of the Uighur minority in Xinjiang. I would point out, however, that sanctions are not an end in themselves: they are intended to induce a change in behaviour. Unfortunately, they alone will not put an end to serious human rights violations. That is why we must continue, in our bilateral contacts and in the multilateral fora, to defend human rights firmly and unambiguously. I would add that we had a meeting with Mrs Bachelet at which she expressed her wish to visit this province. She told us that if she went there, it was to do her job and not to find herself in a situation where she could not see things as she should see them, in which she was fully supported by all the participants at the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u70	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u71	Madam Minister, thank you. The Tibet problem is an old one. The repression of Tibetan culture and Tibetans is not new. But it is true that there is a new impetus from the Chinese authorities who intend to carry out a programme quite similar to that carried out in Xinjiang since their intention is to send a million policemen to ten million homes. It is indeed a matter of putting a step forward and preventing the expression of a particular culture that would be contrary to the dogma of the Chinese leaders. I hope that Europe will be so attentive and vigilant there. China intends to have real domination not only economic, but also political and ideological over a range of countries. It is worrying to see how highly sophisticated social control is and any cultural or religious expression that runs counter to today's brutally repressed dogma. Europe must make its voice in this area even more strongly heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u72	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. There is indeed an evolution when it comes to Tibet and Xinjiang. In the nineties I happened to make my thesis in political science about Tibet. There was already talk back then that many practices in that region, which is disputed by China, simply create assimilation. They're just gonna go on. Belgium is now advocating an international investigation. There is therefore an evolution in our country's attitude towards China in terms of respect for human rights. People no longer want to talk about it. I welcome the fact that the dialogue in this area is stronger and less restrained. The European Union and the UN make it clearer that it is a bridge too far. If we become complicit in forced labour through the purchase of products from those regions, that is unacceptable. I only welcome the Belgian attitude you have expressed today. We need to move on from that momentum.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u73	Mr Cogolati, the international community continues to monitor developments in Algeria closely. The growing concern about the deterioration of human rights in that country had recently been reflected in a statement by the spokesman for the High Commissioner for Human Rights calling not to prevent peaceful protests. Political activist Rachid Nekkaz was released on 19 February, along with other journalists and opinion prisoners, following a presidential pardon. It is a decision that both the European Union and Belgium have openly welcomed. With regard to the conviction of Said Djabelkhir, it is true that on Thursday, 22 April, an Algiers court sentenced the Algerian Islamologist to three years in prison and a fine of 50,000 dinars for "damaging religion, the precepts of Islam and Koranic verses". Mr. Djabelkhir was not incarcerated immediately and has eight days to appeal the decision. We did not comment specifically on the arrest of Mr. Nekkaz and the conviction of Mr. Djabelkhir. But we will continue to stress the importance of respect for human rights in our bilateral contacts at European Union level and in multilateral forums such as the United Nations. It is important that the various parties in Algeria work to restore confidence so that a constructive, inclusive and broad dialogue can take place to respond to the grievances of the Algerian people. It is a political process that is in their hands. It goes without saying that the European Union will continue to engage in an open and constructive dialogue with the Algerian authorities on this matter. Algeria is an important partner of the European Union, particularly in the context of the European Neighbourhood Policy. It is based on cooperation based on good governance, respect for the rule of law and human rights. This was further confirmed recently in the Joint Communication from the European Commission and the High Representative on a new agenda for the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u74	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. I think it is essential that our country and the European Union can support the democratic transition in Algeria and free the other victims of arbitrary arrests. The right to protest is increasingly being violated. It is really important that we can maintain the pressure on the Algerian state to stop repression.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u75	Madam President, the US intelligence services released a report on 26 February in which they accused Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salmane of approving the operation against journalist Jamal Khashoggi in Turkey to capture or kill him. In 2018, the Washington Post journalist went to the Saudi Arabian consulate in Istanbul to pick up the documents he needed for his marriage. He never came out of it. Inside the consulate, a team was waiting for him to kill him with the necessary tools to ensure that his body was never seen again. For the past two years, the Saudi Crown Prince, accused of sponsoring the murder, has escaped any form of trial. The disclosure of this report is the first step in establishing the Crown Prince's responsibility and preventing him from getting away with it. These revelations must be followed by decisive action and sanctions at the international level commensurate with this crime. With the evidence accumulating, this heinous crime must now be punished. Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions on this subject. What information do you have from our diplomatic posts on site? What position has Belgium taken in this context and has it taken at European level? What measures have been taken at European level in relation to this case? What about the request, contained in the resolution adopted by the House in 2015, to conduct an in-depth reflection on Belgium's relations with Saudi Arabia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u76	From the investigation to the declassification of the U.S. report on the assassination of Jamal Khashoggi, my services followed this case closely. The death of a dissident Saudi journalist was another blow to freedom of expression, media freedom and human rights in Saudi Arabia. From the beginning, Belgium, like the European Union, had been very clear. A credible, transparent, independent investigation had to be conducted in order to shed light on the circumstances of his death. We strongly condemned this act aimed at reducing freedom of expression. In this case, Belgium has consistently advocated for a common and supportive European position. In 2019, the European Union suggested to the Saudi authorities the establishment of a human rights dialogue. Belgium supports this European proposal. It is positive that the European Union and Saudi Arabia have been able to agree on the modalities of this dialogue. Finally, at the international level, Belgium has also participated in several joint statements concerning the murder of Jamal Khashoggi in the Human Rights Council. In March 2019 and September 2020, Belgium condemned the murder and expressed its greatest concern about the fate of journalists and human rights defenders in the world. On the basis of the conclusions of the Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions and on the murder of Mr. Jamal Khashoggi, Belgium reiterated its call for transparency and prosecution of all those responsible. During the universal periodic review of Saudi Arabia in November 2018, Belgium recommended that Saudi Arabia release anyone imprisoned solely for exercising their rights to freedom of expression and association and to freedom of peaceful assembly, including human rights defenders and journalists. In accordance with the resolution you are referring to, the Foreign Affairs Department and I will continue to advocate for respect for human rights in Saudi Arabia at bilateral meetings as well as in multilateral institutions. Some of the progress being made must be encouraged, but it must be kept in mind that many human rights challenges remain unabated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u77	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As far as your last sentence is concerned, that is the least we can say about this country. I believe that there is a need to continue, if not intensify, the dialogue with this country in order to advance the human rights issue there. It is also necessary to pay attention, on the geopolitical level, to alliances around Saudi Arabia, which are called "illiberal", in a context marked by the latent conflict and, at times, patently opposing that country and its allies with Iran. There is therefore a geostrategic framework that determines us but must not distract us from the question of respect for human rights in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u78	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Lacroix's 55015163C has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55015209C) by Mr Lacroix and No. 55015282C by Mrs Van Bossuyt, who is not present, have also been postponed. I put my question No. 55016886C out of solidarity as well. A chairman must show solidarity from time to time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u79	Madam Secretary, in September 2020 an arrest warrant was issued in the Philippines against Windel Bolinget, president of the Cordillera Peoples Alliance. In my former capacity as governor of the province of East Flanders, in 2016 I had the honour to meet him during a visit to the Cordillera in the context of the partnership between the province, the Belgian NGO Solidario and the Filipino Centre for Development Programs in the Cordillera. Meanwhile, Mr Bolinget is accused of murdering an indigenous leader on the island of Mindanao, in a place he allegedly never visited. In early 2021, he turned himself in for protection and also to be able to defend himself. On 19 March 2021, he was released from his pre-trial custody, following a court decision to re-examine and suspend the arrest warrant. The charge against Mr Bolinget was condemned internationally in the Philippines, including by the United Nations human rights experts in a statement of 28 January 2021. Organisations defending the rights of the poor people are often victims of violations of their basic rights to organisation and freedom of expression. Their employees were the victims of extrajudicial murders, unjustified accusations and imprisonment and public rescue, linking them without any evidence to the New Peoples Army, the armed wing of the Communist Party. Recently, on 17 March 2021, nine leaders of peaceful social movements were killed elsewhere in the Philippines in a house, two days after President Duterte's appeal to kill them all and forget about human rights. The threats and restrictions on civil society in the Philippines affect the Belgian NGOs, which, among other things, implement development programmes using federal means. Your predecessors and the Belgian embassy in Manila regularly came into contact with them and the local partners. What are the steps you can and will take to put pressure on the Filipino government, to respect the right of people like Mr Bolinget to a fair trial and the basic rights of civil society organisations? How can you stop the threats to our partner organisations? In what way will you cooperate with the Belgian organisations involved so that they can continue to support their Filipino partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u80	Madam President, the FPS Foreign Affairs regularly receives information on the informal accusation of membership of the Communist rebel organization, red tagging, and on death threats and extrajudicial executions of activists. Much of the political violence in the Philippines originates from the internal armed conflict which has been holding back its development for decades and leads to a series of events which indeed seriously restrict the area of civil society. As in the case of Windel Bolinget, legitimate organisations that are indirect beneficiaries of Belgian development cooperation may themselves become the target of such threats and accusations of ties with the forbidden terrorist movement Communist Party of the Philippines. In 2020, a report by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights stressed the serious threat to the once lively and open tradition of civil society activism in the Philippines. The report also shows that the Philippine government is currently failing to investigate attacks on activists and journalists and to follow up on criminal law. The Investigative report to which you refer concludes that these violations are going to worsen. The death of nine trade union activists who represented minorities during police operations in the Calabarzon region on 7 March 2021 is clearly part of this wave of police violence against activists. However, the Philippine authorities have announced that these deaths will be investigated by the Committee on Extrajudicial Murders. The local delegation of the European Union issued a communication welcoming the initiation of this investigation, reminding the authorities of their commitment to protect human rights defenders and to ensure that human rights violations are investigated and prosecuted before the courts, in accordance with international obligations in this regard. Belgium continues to monitor the human rights situation in the Philippines and regularly raises the issue bilaterally, but also in European and multilateral forums. At multilateral level, for example, during the Universal Periodic Review of the Philippines in 2017, Belgium urged the Filipino government to receive the UN Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial executions. In 2019, Belgium supported a resolution on the human rights situation in the Philippines in the Human Rights Council. Our post is in constant contact with stakeholders in the field, partners of Belgian Development Cooperation, Filipino civil society, the Philippine Human Rights Commission and the government. At European level, we regularly discuss how to bring the deterioration of the human rights situation in the Philippines to the attention of the international community and remind the country of its international obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u81	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I note that you will continue to pay attention to the situation of the poor people and that you will continue to support the Belgian and local NGOs, as the province of East Flanders is and will continue to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u82	Thank you very much, minister, for your answer. A few months ago, I asked you about the situation in the Philippines and you shared the fact that you were relatively optimistic about a constructive stance by the Philippine authorities. Since then, their president has publicly said, "Kill them, don't mind human rights." I think that a president like that does not deserve our confidence or our optimism in any way. This is really the exemplary country of shrinking place for civil society. We have active Belgian NGOs who pay for this situation every day. This is really the exemplary country with which we have to step up to the diplomatic level. I'm not saying you're not. But we're obviously facing a president who doesn't listen to anything or anyone. I'm bored. I hear you say the authorities on the spot are announcing that they are going to investigate the latest murders. I used to work in the NGO sector. Mr. Ben Ramos, with whom we worked for years, was murdered in November 2018. There's still no record of any investigation. This is a real concern; I really encourage you to continue the monitoring work you do, with your diplomacy, and to apply sanctions if necessary. We also have trade relations with the Philippines. At some point, we're gonna have to change our strategy. In any case, you have our support in everything you can put in place to make Mr. Duterte hear you. Merci beaucoup.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u83	Madam President, Minister, at the NATO meeting on 18 February 2021, Member States expressed their relief at the departure of President Trump and the arrival of President Biden, who promised to restore diplomacy, but despite the joy of the announced policy change, Member States immediately agreed to Trump's request, repeated by Biden, to send more NATO troops to Iraq. In the U.S. Senate, the Democrats, together with the Republicans, voted for the preservation of the American Embassy in Jerusalem. It is now clear that these are not the only elements of Trump's policy that Biden simply continues. Especially in the US Middle East policy, there is not really a trend break. Thus, contrary to his frequent promises during the election campaign, President Biden still refuses to respect the JCPOA, the nuclear agreement with Iran, again. Long after returning to the World Health Organisation and the Paris climate agreements on his first day as President of the United States, he still lays down conditions for Iran and also demands new negotiations. Belgium, like France and Germany, has rightly protested strongly when Trump unilaterally withdrew the United States from the nuclear agreement with Iran, which was also an infringement of UN Security Council Resolution 2331, which the US itself voted for when Biden was Vice President. It is therefore clear to the US to correct their mistake without imposing conditions, but instead Biden announces new sanctions against Iran and escalates tensions in the region with 22 deaths in Syria, another flagrant violation of international law. In addition, Biden continues Trump's provocative flights across the Persian Gulf with nuclear B-52 bombers, accompanied by Israeli and Saudi military aircraft. Biden clearly does not opt for diplomacy, but for further military escalation. Madam Secretary, how do you react to the fact that the United States' foreign policy in the Middle East under Biden continues the aggressive military escalation and the maximum pressure policy of President Trump unchanged? President Macron has joined Biden's demand for new negotiations on the nuclear agreement with Iran, prior to a possible reconnection of the United States to that agreement. What position does our government currently take on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u84	Madam President, Mr De Vuyst, we are only three months away from the presidency of Joe Biden, so it seems premature to draw definitive conclusions on the direction that his foreign policy in the Middle East will take. Where he has already given a clear message and has broken a trend with his predecessor, he wants to give a place to diplomacy in that foreign policy. That is a change that I can only welcome. In the Iranian nuclear dossier, this translates into the concrete offer to sit around the table with all the parties concerned in order to find a solution to that important geostrategic dossier. Since the American withdrawal from the JCPOA in 2018, a step which, as you know, we have deeply and repeatedly regretted, Iran has also taken steps that violate the provisions of the nuclear agreement. However, both sides have repeatedly expressed their support for a return to that agreement. It is now important to draw up a roadmap that allows all parties, especially the United States and Iran, to make their policies consistent with the JCPOA. In order to achieve this, international diplomacy is of great importance. The European Union has a special role to play as chairman of the JCPOA Joint Committee. The other parties of the JCPOA, such as the so-called E3, Germany, France and the United Kingdom, can also facilitate negotiations between the United States and Iran. Moreover, negotiations are still ongoing in Vienna. I hope, of course, that these discussions will have a positive outcome. The first signals are positive, but there is still a long way to go. Belgium remains convinced that the JCPOA is the best guarantee to avoid a nuclear arms race in that region. A well-functioning nuclear agreement will undoubtedly also be a precondition for discussing the other aspects of Iranian policy in the region, such as Iran's role in various conflicts in the region, including Syria, Yemen and Iraq.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u85	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. You have said that it is too early to draw conclusions on President Biden's foreign policy, but since I submitted this question, we cannot ignore the fact that the US has increased tensions in various parts of the world. I am also thinking of tensions around the South China Sea and the summit in Alaska where the foreign minister has agitated China in an unmistakeable, rather staggering and provocative language. New sanctions have already been imposed on Russia and Iran. The US is now even threatening to impose sanctions on its self-declared allies, including a number of German companies cooperating in Nord Stream 2. In the meantime, they have also further armed their proxies in Ukraine and also provoked provocative violations of the Minsk agreement. Rather than giving priority to diplomacy, we believe that the Biden Government is already taking a distinctly different, more aggressive and dangerous war tour. Meanwhile, China and Russia have, not surprisingly, provoked reaction, strategic, military and economic cooperation agreements with Iran and concluded with each other. It becomes clear that Belgium, but especially Europe, must vote against it, independently of the US, before we are dragged into a new cold war or perhaps eventually a hot war that also has a great chance of getting a nuclear extension, which no one wants, especially in the time of crisis we are in today. We have every interest in working together in a multipolar environment to tackle the pandemic and the climate crisis, because those are the real threats we are now facing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u86	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Lacroix's 55015303C and 55015305C were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u87	Minister, at the beginning of March, Senegal was the scene of numerous demonstrations that most often led to clashes with the police. The trigger for these disturbances was the arrest on 3 March of Ousmane Sonko, third in the 2019 presidential election, likely to be a candidate in 2024. The clashes that burned the country for several days reportedly killed five, according to the official record, and eleven, according to the opposition. Tensions were then reduced as a result of Mr. Sonko's judicial release on 8 March and the words of appeasement delivered on the same day by President Macky Sall. Senegal is generally seen as a symbol of stability in the heart of Africa. We must note, unfortunately, that, here too, the accumulated socio-economic and political frustrations, especially by young people, were waiting only for the right catalyst, the right trigger to be able to express themselves. A year of covid-19 and the introduction of many drastic measures have impoverished entire households and created an unprecedented economic crisis. We don't even need to probe the crisis, which's on the stomach. Minister, what information do you have from our diplomatic representation on the spot about the evolution of the situation? Could you take stock of the state of our bilateral relations with this country? Has the subject been discussed at European level? Has a common position been reached?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u88	For the time being, the Belgian community does not seem to be in danger, but it is clear that if a threat were to be felt again, our embassy would immediately reactivate measures for the protection of our compatriots, as it did during the tensions you mentioned in your questions. The SPF Foreign Affairs contacted the Ambassador of Senegal in Belgium about the development of the situation during the month of March. Local events led President Sall to postulate his visit here on April 12, which was originally scheduled for early March. During this visit, he met with the Prime Minister and the European authorities. It was reported that, while Senegal has a long history of the rule of law, participatory democracy, tolerance, respect for human rights, the internal crisis and violent incidents had been observed with concern by Belgium and Senegal's other European partners. The political and social situation, although currently calmed, is closely followed by the European heads of post present on the spot, including the Belgian ambassador. In addition, a local European declaration to this effect was issued in Dakar on 8 March. In the light of past events and in close dialogue with the Senegalese authorities, I believe that the European Union will have to look closely at the possibility of sending an election observation mission to Senegal in the context of the presidential elections of 2024. Finally, the establishment of an international investigation is not on the agenda at this stage. In general, bilateral relations with Senegal are very good. Many Belgians live there, including a large number of temporary residents. The Belgian-Senegal cooperation programmes have not been suspended. A princely economic mission is, moreover, planned next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u89	Minister, since my question was drafted, the local situation has indeed calmed down. However, information has also been provided, including through Amnesty International's work, on possible torture in some areas. We can welcome the announcement by the government of the establishment of an independent commission of inquiry, which – in the interests of appeasement – was tasked with addressing all these events. We therefore remain attentive to the situation, hoping that Senegal will return to its usual stability.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u90	Minister, thank you for your answers. We can see that things have calmed down, even though it remains worrying that one of the last countries in this Sahelian band, which goes from Senegal to the Horn of Africa, is being subjected to violence. It is a matter of new concern and I thank our diplomacy for being extremely attentive to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u91	Minister, in October, India and South Africa submitted a request to the World Trade Organization for a temporary exemption from intellectual property rules for covid vaccines and essential medical equipment for the duration of the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) pandemic. This would allow for a rapid increase in production and a reduction in manufacturing costs. The request is supported by more than 100 countries. European civil society also largely relays this legitimate request, in particular in the letter sent to the European Commission by 78 organisations a few days ago. On April 15, again, an open letter to President Biden signed by 175 world leaders (including Yves Leterme and Herman De Croo) and Nobel laureates called for the lifting of patents. It should be stressed that, for the time being, the distribution of vaccines is very uneven worldwide, with the richest countries taking the doses and the poorest countries waiting for the availability of the remaining doses. Experts also point out that as long as the virus circulates, the risk of mutation poses a very serious risk to global health. And in the meantime, pharmaceutical companies are increasing the price of doses in new contracts. Minister, what is the status of the dialogue between the supporters of a waiver of the TRIPS Agreement and the European Union? Is the European Union prepared to call unambiguously for the lifting of patents and to weigh in this direction at the WTO? What position does Belgium hold in intra-European dialogues on this subject? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u92	Mrs de Laveleye, first of all, a word on the substance of the question. It is clear that access to medicines and vaccines for all is a real priority that we share. Of course, we want them to be produced and distributed around the world. They are indeed our way out of this pandemic. It is also in our interest - but it is also our duty - for the whole world to have access to it. In any event, this is a question of international solidarity, which goes far beyond the question of the lifting of patents. All partners, whether public or private, must work together to ensure equal and affordable access to HIV vaccines. In this context, the European Union plays an important role in the global distribution of vaccines and is making major efforts, both at European and bilateral multilateral level, including under the Covax Facility, which allows for global collaboration between governments and pharmaceutical companies. I turn now to the proposal originally made by South Africa and India on 2 October, which calls for a derogation to be granted to all WTO members from certain provisions of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, with regard to the prevention, containment or treatment of covid-19. As you mentioned, this proposal is indeed supported by a large number of developing countries, as well as a number of NGOs, and was indeed the subject of an open letter to President Biden on 15 April. The European Commission representing us in the TRIPS Council is currently opposed to this proposal for a derogation, considering, as well as a number of other countries, including the United Kingdom, the United States, Japan, Mexico, Chile and Ecuador, that it is not the right instrument to achieve our common objective. I make it clear that this is an opposition to the desired instrument, not an opposition to the fact that the objective must be international solidarity. The Commission considers that the global distribution of vaccines is, in the first place, a logistical challenge and a problem of lack of production infrastructure in several regions, rather than a problem of intellectual property rights. The suspension of these rights could, on the contrary, undermine the future innovation necessary for the design of new vaccines. The European Commission therefore considers that the intellectual property system currently in force in the WTO creates a sufficient framework for the cooperation and transfer of knowledge needed to increase production capacity. It therefore favours cooperation agreements with vaccine-producing companies, voluntary production licensing initiatives. If these initiatives were to prove not to have the desired effect and if sufficient evidence shows that intellectual property is a real barrier to access to vaccines, which has not been demonstrated so far, the European Commission has expressed its readiness to assist the countries concerned in implementing the flexibilities already existing under the TRIPS Agreement, such as the possibility of using compulsory licences. It is Articles 31 and 31bis of the TRIPS Agreements that have been created for this purpose. At the intra-Belgian level, there is currently no agreement on the precise issue of patent waiver. On the other hand, there is a consensus, as agreed at the DGE consultation last December, to call on the Commission, in the Council groups or at the WTO, to take seriously the concerns expressed by the countries concerned. Belgium therefore actively supports the Commission in the WTO dialogue in order to better understand the obstacles these countries face in making use of the flexibilities already existing in the TRIPS Agreement and in trying to find practical answers to them. With this in mind, Belgium and the European Union are following with great attention the work carried out in Geneva under the leadership of the new Director General, Dr Ngozi, who organised a first webinar on 15 April, bringing together a very broad and important representation of industry, governments, NGOs and international organisations. The Director General will continue her work in this direction with the idea of reaching more concrete solutions by the December WTO Ministerial Conference. It is important to encourage such initiatives that link producers and licensees, as this is probably the key to substantially increasing production. Belgium will continue to actively support this dialogue. Indeed, the SPF Foreign Affairs took the initiative, in March, to organise a first technical dialogue with representatives of the Belgian pharmaceutical sector, in consultation with the experts of the SPF Economy and Public Health. Other such meetings will have to be held in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u93	Madam Minister, I do not claim to be right on my own against the European Commission, but I would nevertheless like to go back to two or three points that you share. The answer is that the issue of accessibility goes beyond the lifting of patents. If the obstacle is proven, then it can be reviewed. The problem is how long it will take to prove it, and by then the number of disasters will have increased. It is known that, for the time being, covid kills heavily in the poorest countries (Brazil, India, etc.) There are others where the variants will eventually arrive. Waiting for proof seems to me a little late to react. Provisions for the lifting of patents have been made for HIV. I do not understand why, today, we are not already at this stage. The Covax system is a good system of solidarity, but it does not meet all the needs at the moment. I am very proud that Belgium is contributing to this and that is a very good signal, but it must also be accompanied by a wider production capacity. I also think that the 174 signatories are not just funny people, but big people. We cannot say that our Belgian politicians who are part of it are from the radical left. These people have an experience and they think they have a good idea. I think we need to be able to listen to them. A parliamentary resolution had been unanimously adopted here in May and called for vaccines to be treated as a common good. I'd like to remind you. We cannot take strong measures that impact our economy and cost us very much (I think our government is up to it, but it costs us a lot) and at the same time we cannot afford to fight the spread of this virus as effectively as possible at the international level. As you said, it is a matter of efficiency and solidarity. I still ask the Belgian Government to keep an eye on this option and not to wait until it is really too late for us. I don't think it's worth anything. It's really expected. Keep an eye on it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u94	Madam Minister, the International Criminal Court has recently announced that it is launching an investigation into the war crimes and crimes against humanity committed by the Israeli occupying forces in Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem since June 2014. As is the case with the investigation of American war crimes and crimes against humanity in Afghanistan by the same criminal court, this investigation is being openly and by all means opposed by the United States. But in this case it does not sound very loud protest from Belgium or the European Union, quite the contrary. Among other things, Germany and Hungary, like NATO Member State Canada and NATO ally Australia, are actively contributing to the undermining of the International Criminal Court, which apparently exists only to condemn war criminals who are not members or allies of NATO, with a clear preference for African war criminals. Firstly, what is the Belgian position regarding the open politicisation and undermining of the International Criminal Court? Do you intend to condemn this clear sabotage of a war crimes investigation by a number of EU Member States and NATO? Secondly, the Israeli Government is currently exerting great pressure on the Palestinian Authority to refuse its cooperation in the investigation of the Criminal Court. What is the Belgian position in this bad case? Will the government have implications for Israel and at European level, or in cooperation with like-minded countries, for a strict condemnation of this and for taking appropriate measures? Thirdly, if the government does not consider it necessary or appropriate, what effect will that have on the credibility of the International Criminal Court as an impartial organisation and on the credibility of Belgium and the European Union as the self-declared defenders of human rights around the world? On 21 March, The times of Israel reported that your fellow Foreign Minister of the Palestinian Authority Riyadh al-Maliki was stopped by the Israeli occupying forces on the border between the West Bank and Jordan, taking the special travel pass that Palestinian authorities need to get through the many Israeli checkpoints on their territory. Al-Maliki came back from a visit to the International Criminal Court in The Hague, where he advocated the Palestinians' case before the court, which opened an investigation into these crimes. Al-Maliki stresses to the President of the Court, Fatou Bensouda, the importance of carrying out the investigation without delay, so that the Palestinian victims of the occupation and their families finally get justice. Israel reacted rather furiously to the opening of the investigation and had announced that Palestinians participating in the investigation would have serious consequences. Al-Maliki and his associates were also questioned for hours by the notorious Israeli intelligence agency Shin Bet. Madam Secretary, do you intend to condemn the umpteenth obstruction of an investigation into war crimes by the Israeli occupying forces? Will Belgium, whether within the EU or with the like-minded states, have the appropriate consequences for that flagrant lack of respect for international law?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u95	Madam President, Minister, on April 2, the U.S. President lifted the sanctions imposed on the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court (ICC). If the latter, based in The Hague, welcomed this decision, it would be illusory to believe that it would inaugurate a new approach by the United States in its relations with the institution. Joe Biden hastened to point out that his country continues to oppose the ICC's ambitions to investigate acts accused of "staff of States not signatories to the Rome Statute such as the United States and its allies in the absence of a referral to the United Nations Security Council". This is an obvious allusion to the ongoing investigations into possible war crimes committed by the United States in Afghanistan and to the recent accusations against Israel's actions in the occupied territories. As far as this matter is concerned, the statements of the Hebrew State are constant and unsurprising. Indeed, Israel will not cooperate with the Court. This is what Benjamin Netanyahu, in a press release, once again stated on 8 April last that this Court "has no legitimacy to open an investigation". Recall that on 5 February last the ICC declared itself competent for the acts that took place in the occupied Palestinian territories. Minister, have you been aware of this American decision? If so, as I assume, how do you analyze it? Has the United States' relationship with the ICC been discussed during your recent meeting with Secretary of State Antony Blinken? What came out of it? In the light of the latest Israeli statements, does Belgium intend to take steps, within the bilateral and/or European framework, to ensure the good work of the investigators?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u96	Minister, that was my only question today and I come from a remote province called the Walloon Brabant. I think my colleagues have already said everything, so I am referring to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u97	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the courage of the one who crossed the most arid steppes to join us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u98	It is to live in Walloon Brabant that you need courage, not to cross it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u99	I came from the Walloon Brabant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u100	I invite you to the Walloon Brabant, where there's more than just Lake Genval.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u101	I'm defending you, because it's still my land of origin. Belgium is a strong supporter of the Court and of respect for its independence and integrity. Belgium is very active in the defence of the Court, both bilaterally and multilaterally. The fight against impunity in which the International Criminal Court occupies a central place is one of the priorities of Belgian foreign policy. Belgium has always ruled when the United States authorities took a decision which was contrary to the principles of independence and impartiality of the Court. During the two years in the Security Council, Belgium has assumed the role of ICC focal point and, as such, has mobilized States parties and members of the Council to respect the Court's independence, including through press briefings by members of the Security Council in the context of United States sanctions decisions against the Prosecutor and one of her deputies. In my statement during the general debate of the 19th session of the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, I called upon States parties to assume their responsibilities and to provide the Court with the necessary support to respond to measures that threaten its integrity and independence and impede its proper functioning. I was also one of the first to call upon the new President Biden to withdraw the presidential decree on the International Criminal Court as soon as possible after the American elections. I also had the opportunity to repeat this message to Secretary of State Blinken at a recent meeting with the EU Foreign Affairs Council. The Sanction Executive Order was revoked on April 2, and I publicly welcomed it. At European level, the EU is actively committed to the universalisation of the Rome Statute and its integrity. In this context, the Union shall take numerous steps towards States which are not yet Parties, as well as States which are already Parties, to remind them, if necessary, of their obligations under the Statute, in particular as regards cooperation with the Court. Belgium will continue to monitor closely the further development of such steps. We will ensure that any other measures that undermine the independence and integrity of the International Criminal Court are included on the agenda, so that the European Union reacts in a proportionate manner. I would also remind you that I had organized a meeting for Benelux with the ICC, ahead of a General Affairs Council. It is to tell you how much we care about this independence. Belgium has not reacted to the ICC's decision of jurisdiction over the territories, precisely in full respect of this principle of independence that we are defending. It expects States parties to facilitate its implementation. As you know, Israel is not a party to the Rome Statute, while Palestine is. Furthermore, our country, of course, condemns the Israeli treatment handed down by the Palestinian Foreign Minister Ryad al-Maliki following his return from the International Criminal Court in The Hague on 21 March 2021. Israel's withdrawal of its VIP travel authorisation was linked to the trip in the framework of the Palestinian case before the Criminal Court and can be seen as a retaliatory measure. We deeply regret this. On 19 April I had a long talk with my Palestinian colleague in Brussels. Sunday night he returned to his own country. His VIP status remains revoked, which means that he has travelled to the country as an ordinary Palestinian and under the corresponding circumstances. Belgium is also working with other Member States to strengthen the EU presence in The Hague by opening the EU delegation. Belgium will continue to actively defend this dossier. We are convinced that it would be an essential concrete step towards better integrating the fight against impunity into the EU's foreign policy. With regard to the financing of the Court, the annual budget 2021 was adopted at the 19th meeting of the Assembly of States Parties in December 2020. Belgium is contributing to a solution to the cash flow problem encountered by the Court for several years by making an advance payment of its contribution to the 2021 budget. I also called on States parties to shoulder their responsibilities and unite to find a lasting solution. We also contribute repeatedly and voluntarily to the Victims Trust Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u102	Madam Minister, it is a good thing that President Biden has lifted sanctions against officials of the International Criminal Court and their families, but that is, of course, a very low bar to go over. Those sanctions were actually pure harassment. Like all other unilateral sanctions imposed by the US and, unfortunately, by the EU, they are a flagrant violation of international law. However, despite attempts to convince him, Biden still refuses to recognise the Criminal Court and join the US. Like Israel and a number of EU Member States, he is exerting pressure to stop investigations against the US and Israel. At the initiative of several Israeli lobby groups, the US Congress has also recently adopted a resolution to "protect Israel from the politicised investigation of the International Criminal Court." Moreover, Israel continues to pressure the Palestinian Authority not to cooperate with the Criminal Court. Activists of Palestinian human rights organisations are threatened with death in order to prevent them from cooperating with the investigation. Meanwhile, Israel continues to oppose the Palestinian elections in East Jerusalem and bomb the civilian population in Gaza. We even see outright pogroms against Palestinian residents of East Jerusalem, with the intention of further cleansing the Arab district. With all due respect, Belgium and the EU are looking at it and doing little more than expressing some lukewarm convictions. As far as the elections are concerned, of course, we appreciate the declaration signed by Belgium in the Security Council together with Ireland, France, Germany and Estonia. Unfortunately, however, it remains with words again and there are no real consequences for the Israeli actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u103	Madam Minister, I thank you for the answer and for the work that our services are doing to promote universalization of the Rome Statute. This is an important work that needs to be continued. In the field of law and especially in the field of international law, the worst thing is double standards. I think there is reason to be concerned about the statements made by Hungary, Canada, Australia and Great Britain, as Boris Johnson recently claimed to be disassociating. In a letter addressed to Israel's Conservative Friends, he confirmed that the United Kingdom was opposed to the ICC's investigation because, in his view, it gave the impression of being a biased and damaging attack on a friend and ally of the United Kingdom. Indeed, the execution of the law and a fortiori of international law cannot have a variable geometry, depending on whether it is an ally, a warlord or an African leader, for example, with far fewer states of mind to execute the law. Madam Minister, I invite you to continue to be very careful to ensure that these principles are strictly respected, regardless of the persons in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u104	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I agree with what has just been said. The right cannot be variable geometry. The credibility of international law is at stake. I will never pretend to compare myself to the people who were sanctioned by the Israeli government, but I was appointed to be an observer in the Palestinian elections that are due to take place very soon. I hope that, in the event that the Israeli authorities do not allow us to return, which is currently being discussed in some European diplomacy, we will have your support in denouncing this new oppression, the new baroud of honour that the Israeli government would do. As for the ICC, its role is to investigate facts and facts alone. We know that the institution must be supported so that it can do its job without any pressure, as it has done and, unfortunately, this will still be the case with the Israeli government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u105	Madam Secretary, the war in Syria has taken ten years, a sad birthday. The war originated in the context of the Arab Spring and began as a legitimate, democratic rebellion against Assad, but was then hijacked internationally by several great powers, all of whom sought to achieve a geopolitical agenda. In the meantime, it is also clear that the conflict will not be resolved militarily, because all the conflicts end at the negotiating table. What is also clear is that the Syrian people are living in a more difficult situation than ever before. The UN states that 13.4 million Syrians need a form of humanitarian aid. Unicef says 2.4 million children are not going to school at the moment. 80% live in poverty and 12.4 million people are starving, the highest since the beginning of the war, according to the World Food Programme. In their interests, a peaceful resolution of the conflict must be achieved. To this end, the Irish Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence recently sent us a letter calling for, in addition to providing and ensuring humanitarian aid, at European level, the launching of an inclusive political process led by Syrians, a commendable initiative that we can all endorse. At the same time, however, the European Union and the United States are still imposing economic sanctions against Syria, despite the fact that on 31 March 2020, more than a year ago, the Secretary-General of the United Nations asked for unilateral economic sanctions to be lifted at least during the pandemic. Moreover, the sanctions not only lead to hardship, they ironically also strengthen the regime's position, just as the infamous sanctions against Iraq did earlier. Belgium and Europe are therefore investing millions of euros in humanitarian aid to Syria, while maintaining sanctions that are currently the main reason why the Syrians need humanitarian aid. We must look at this approach in terms of policy coherence. Unfortunately, the letter from our Irish colleagues does not mention this contradiction. Do you agree with the call made by our Irish colleagues? Are you also prepared to argue at European level for an inclusive political process, led by the Syrians, to end the conflict rather than continue to take military action? Are you also prepared to argue in the EU for the lifting of sanctions, which only exacerbate the hardship of the Syrian people?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u106	Belgium has always supported the political process by and for Syrians supported by the UN. Our country fully supports the political process led by UN Envoy Pedersen. That political process is facilitated by the UN, but its content is fully determined by the Syrians. There are three delegations from the regime in Damascus, from the Syrian opposition and from a third independent group of civil society. However, since the last session of the Constitutional Committee to draft the new constitution for Syria, the political process has been at an impasse. After all, the delegation of the regime in Damascus shows insufficient willingness to engage constructively in the debate. For the time being, therefore, UN Envoy Pedersen has not planned a new session of the Constitutional Committee. Together with the European Union, I therefore call on the allies of the regime in Moscow and Tehran to increase the pressure on Damascus to cooperate with Mr Pedersen. Over the last few months, at the fifth Brussels conference on Syria, I have supported the break-up of the deadlock and the resumption of a credible political process, in a new international format if necessary. Belgium will support any initiative that breaks the current deadlock on which the regime and its allies are based. Only through a political process will there be a lasting end to the conflict in Syria. The European sanctions against supporters of the Damascus regime are an important means of exerting pressure to convince them of the usefulness of that political process. These sanctions are also very specific to the regime in Damascus. There are also exceptions for humanitarian reasons to minimise the impact of these sanctions on the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u107	Madam Minister, you say that sanctions are being taken as specifically as possible to avoid human suffering, but I have just quoted the figures. At present, 12 million Syrians live in food insecurity. That is 60% of all Syrians and that number has increased by 4.5 million in the last year, since the Caesar Syrian Civil Protection Act came into force. It was unilaterally imposed by the United States and imposes sanctions on every person and company trading with the agreement of the Syrian Government. A few years of brutal war is not possible, so it is now enforced with sanctions and, not insignificantly, with an American occupation de facto of the Syrian grain fields and oil wells. Food prices in Syria are currently 29 times higher than in 2011. The sanctions, allegedly the strictest and worst ever, are even more inhuman than the sanctions that caused 500,000 victims in Iraq in the 1990s. Once again, a full population is collectively punished to so-called overthrow the regime. Once again, the position of the endorsed regime is only strengthened, while the most vulnerable of the population, in particular women, children and the poorest, are hit hardest. Once again, it is the United States and also Europe, which constantly lectures other countries on respect for human rights, which are forcing the brutal blockade against one of their former colonies in the South. Madam Minister, one of my next questions, which I probably will not be able to ask this evening, concerns the resolution adopted on 23 March 2021 in the United Nations Human Rights Council. It condemns once again unilateral economic sanctions as flagrant violations of international law, the Charter of the United Nations and human rights. For decades, there has been a clear contradiction between the vast majority of the United Nations Member States condemning sanctions and the minority of Member States persistently defending those crimes against humanity, even during the global pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u108	Mr Lacroix is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I will first respond generally and then more specifically to certain points that have been raised. Like you, I have learned from open sources that opponents in Belgium, as well as in other European countries, are being intimidated and threatened by representatives of the Turkish authorities. It is clear that the Turkish State has a bad view of the presence in our territory of persons suspected of belonging to terrorist organizations such as the PKK or the DHKPC. Ankara also regards the Gülen movement as a terrorist organization. The Turkish State has, over the years, issued Interpol reports and submitted requests for extradition in respect of some of these persons. These applications, which are submitted to the FPS Foreign Affairs, will be referred to the courts for their independent and objective consideration. Beyond these legal channels, we can reasonably believe that the Turkish intelligence services are closely interested in the activities of these people. I would like to refer you to the reply of my colleague, the Minister of Justice, who is in charge of State Security, to the question put by Mr Cogolati on 17 March. On the other hand, I have no objective evidence to conclude that the Turkish State is guilty, on Belgian territory, of intimidation, threats or even less of attacks on opponents. That is why my services have not so far raised this issue with the Turkish Ambassador in Brussels. I myself have not raised this issue with my Turkish counterpart since I took office. Mrs Samyn, in reply to your question, I have indeed taken note of the statements made by the former head of the intelligence service of the Turkish general staff, Mr Ismail Hakki Pekin. He made that statement during a broadcast on CNN Türk on February 16, 2021, following a report on the latest Turkish military operation in northern Iraq. During that broadcast, Mr Pekin defended that operation and earlier military operations of the Turkish army in the border areas of neighbouring Syria and Iraq and stated explicitly that he was in favour of targeted liquidations of PKK leaders in Iraq and Syria. He also made it clear that he was in favour of doing something similar against leaders in Europe, referring to Paris. Indeed, in 2013, three Kurdish women were murdered in Paris. However, the Turkish authorities have always denied their involvement in this attack. Moreover, the French court did not take into account the link between the attacker and the Turkish authorities. The statements made by the former responsible Turkish military intelligence service on Syria and Iraq were very explicit. However, they remain much more blurred and unclear as far as Europe is concerned. I am aware of the other allegations made against Turkey which you mention in your question and which are based on open sources. I do not have any information that would indicate that Turkey would plan assassinations in Western European countries. Turkey is a NATO ally. A liquidation in Europe would be unacceptable, and it would not be possible to see the consequences. With regard to the level of threat, I would refer you to my colleague, the Minister for the Interior, who is responsible for this matter. In response to the specific question concerning Mr Kimyongür's case and in addition to the reply provided by the Minister of Justice, I consider that the recent threats made to Mr Kimyongür from Syria which have been reported in the press are indeed unacceptable. But I also do not have any information that would allow me to attribute the origin of these threats to the Turkish authorities. As far as the role of the Turkish Embassy in Brussels is concerned, there is also no evidence at this time that the Embassy has set up, I quote, "a system of surveillance and/or repression".
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u110	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your long answer. Thank you also for keeping cautious about possible intimidation or threats to people living in our territory, whether they are refugees or others. As for Mr Kimyongür's case, what led me to ask the question, and what really struck me was that his head was publicly priced in Turkey, whereas he is now a legal resident in Belgium. Again, in these cases, only respect for human rights must guide us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u111	Madam Minister, whether it is a question of human rights violations in Turkey, and I am thinking of the many journalists and opponents of the Erdogan regime in Turkish prisons, the permanent occupation of part of Cyprus, the illegal gas drilling in the territorial waters of an EU Member State, the outright blackmail policy at the European external borders, the war crimes against the Kurds, or again the open statements of that regime on the murder of Kurds in European territory, Belgium and the European Union continue to treat Turkey, the so-called loyal NATO ally, with velvet gloves. It is incomprehensible that the European Union has not yet learned any lessons from this. I therefore urge you to take the necessary steps in this matter. In any case, the security of the State should be instructed to carry out an in-depth investigation into the murders and acts of violence against the Kurds in that country and against the Kurds on European territory. At the European level, you could perhaps call for a European condemnation of the facts. These atrocities on European territory are unacceptable. In the meantime, however, you also know our opinion on the Turkish state. As far as we are concerned, such a country can never be part of the European Union. The accession negotiations have been blocked, but it does not go far enough for us. At the European level, all steps must be taken to complete the accession negotiations with Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u112	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Ellen Samyn and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and of the Federal Cultural Institutions, - referring to the statements and confessions of a former head of the Turkish intelligence services on the'murdering of Kurds in Europe'; - having regard to the fact that 'encouraging premiums' are awarded by the Turkish intelligence service to capture or even kill someone on the blacklist; - having regard to Turkey's aggressive attitude towards Kurds, - having regard to the frequent human rights violations by the Turkish authorities in respect of critical voices, opponents, journalists, academics and human rights defenders within and outside Turkish territory; asks the government - call upon the Turkish Ambassador in this country to take responsibility for these crimes carried out, ordered or facilitated by the Turkish regime; - instruct the security of the State to carry out an in-depth investigation into murders and acts of violence against Kurds in that country; - strongly condemn the assassinations of Kurds in Europe; - take steps at European level to achieve a European condemnation of these facts; - take steps at European level to bring the accession negotiations with Turkey to a definitive end to the EU." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms Ellen Samyn and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and the Federal Cultural Institutions, - having regard to the statements and confessions of a former head of the Turkish intelligence services concerning the 'killing of Kurds in Europe'; - in view of the fact that "incitement" is offered by the Turkish intelligence services in the event of the capture or even murder of a person on the blacklist; - in view of Turkey's aggressive attitude towards the Kurds; - in view of the numerous human rights violations committed by the Turkish authorities against critical voices, opponents, journalists, academics and human rights defenders inside and outside Turkish territory; asks the government - to call to order the Turkish Ambassador in that country and to demand that accounts be made of those crimes which have been committed, sponsored or facilitated by the Turkish regime; - instruct the State Security to initiate a thorough investigation into the murders and acts of violence against the Kurds in that country; - strongly condemn the assassinations of Kurds in Europe; - to take steps at European level with a view to achieving a European condemnation of these facts; - to take steps at European level to put a definitive end to Turkey's accession negotiations with the European Union." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katrin Jadin. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katrin Jadin. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Questions Nos 55015451C by Mr Sander Loones and 55015470C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u113	Minister, the United Nations Security Council has just launched a new appeal against the foreign forces still present in Libya. Do you have any information about these foreign forces in Libya? Will the presence of foreign forces influence the elections scheduled for December 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u114	Mrs Jadin, the information that comes to us from the panel of experts and from the United Nations for Libya confirms in a worrying way the continued presence of foreign fighters and mercenaries on Libyan soil, in clear contradiction with the Security Council resolutions and the commitments made at the signing of a ceasefire agreement between the Libyan parties on 23 October last in Geneva. The adoption on 16 April of resolution 2571 by the United Nations Security Council, which calls inter alia for compliance with the arms embargo and the withdrawal of all foreign combat forces, leads us to question collectively the support that the European Union could give to the ceasefire monitoring mechanism in Libya. As we have repeatedly stated, the solution to the Libyan crisis is political and any foreign military intervention is unacceptable. We welcome the appointment of a national unity government in Libya last February. It must indeed prepare the important electoral deadlines for the end of this year. In this regard, cautious optimism will be required. Together with my colleagues in the European Union, we are currently examining the diplomatic, economic and security means at our disposal to support this transitional government so that this process led by Libyans and for Libyans can succeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u115	Minister, thank you for your answers. We are at the heart of what we live in other regions, particularly in Syria. There is a will and a need to speak and to act in a united manner which is evident and which is confirmed in the face of this situation in Libya which is very worrying and which calls more than ever for us to be able to act with the necessary means in relation to the efforts that the European Union wants to pursue and the opportunities that we have to impose our views in these peace and democratisation processes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u116	Madam Secretary, on 14 March, in the city of Nantes in France, an attack was made on an Azerbaijani blogger, Mohammed Mirzali, who, through his YouTube channel, was very critical of the regime and policy of Azerbaijani President Aliyev. On March 14th, a stranger brutally attacked the blogger and cut off his tongue. Mirzali was transferred to the hospital in a critical condition and is now in intensive care. Madam Secretary, I suspect you are aware of these facts. Have the unsubs been known by now? It is reported that the Azerbaijani authorities have tried to silence this blogger many times. Are these allegations true? Will you raise this matter with the Azerbaijani ambassador in Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u117	Mohammed Mirzali has been living in France as a political refugee since 2016. As you said, he runs a YouTube channel called Made in Azerbaijan. There he criticized President Aliyev and the Azerbaijani authorities. Mr Mirzali stated that on Sunday 14 March, when he left his home, six men followed him in a suspicious manner. He contacted the police immediately before he was attacked by those six men. Mirzali received several beatings, stabbings and threats that would happen to him even more. He was left for dead by his attackers. Later he was transferred to a hospital. Despite the brutality of the attack, he was able to leave the hospital a few days after his admission. He filed a complaint with the French police and the investigation is still ongoing. In his own words, the blogger was repeatedly threatened and was shot at in March 2020. His family, who stayed in the country, was reported to have been intimidated repeatedly in recent years. As regards the precise circumstances of this violent incident and the reasons for the attack, I do not have any information at the moment, since the French authorities are still investigating and are obliged to respect the secret of the investigation. I condemn any form of violence, including the attack on the blogger. As you know, respect for human rights and the promotion of democratic values are at the heart of Belgium's diplomatic action. The importance of this is regularly recalled in our bilateral contacts, including with Azerbaijan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u118	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Currently, the condition of Mirzali is good, but he still has a long rehabilitation to undergo. Unfortunately, this attack on the critical blogger does not come as a surprise. I refer to previous facts in Berlin and Brussels, where the Azerbaijani authorities are reported to have their hands in it. I would like to stress here that we must not be blind to what such dictatorial regimes are capable of.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u119	Mr Cogolati and Mr Lacroix are no longer present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u120	Madam Secretary, on 1 July 1968 the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) for nuclear weapons was signed with the aim of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, the eventual elimination of all nuclear weapons and international cooperation for the peaceful use of nuclear energy. In 1975, Belgium approved that treaty. Since then, the NPT has been the cornerstone of the global nuclear non-proliferation regime for our country, as stated in the coalition agreement. On 16 March, Prime Minister Boris Johnson presented his external and defence policy 2030 in the UK Parliament. There he announced that the UK would increase its nuclear arsenal from 180 to 260 nuclear warheads, an increase of 40%. He wants to make the UK stronger, safer and more prosperous, and thinks that this is how to achieve it. That decision is completely contrary to Article 6 of the NPT, a treaty co-signed and ratified by the UK. It is also a blow to the non-nuclear states that signed it and, moreover, a particularly bad signal on the eve of the review conference which is supposed to take place next summer, there are rumors that it will be postponed until next year. In addition, UN Secretary General Guterres strongly rejected the decision in a declaration. What is the government's position on the UK's decision? Has the government sent a strong signal on this? Have you been in contact with the UK about this? Will the UK's decision have an impact on the NPT review conference, which will take place later this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u121	The United Kingdom has informed Belgium of the adjustment of its nuclear policy. Several discussions have taken place at administrative level. The issue was also discussed at NATO level. Technically, it is not a question of increasing nuclear capacity, but of adjusting the reduction targets. On every occasion, Belgium has reiterated its commitment to nuclear disarmament and its desire for progress at the Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference to be held in New York in August. It is clear that we would have preferred that the United Kingdom had complied with its previous objective of reducing the nuclear arsenal. In recent decades, the United Kingdom has reduced the number of nuclear warheads in its arsenal and has confined itself to one launch facility, namely submarines. The British decision reflects a complex situation. China's emerging nuclear power, increasing tensions with Russia and developments in Iran and North Korea confronted us with a deteriorating global security situation. However, it is clear that our objective of a gradual, irreversible and verifiable process of nuclear disarmament must be maintained and given fresh impetus at the NPT Review Conference. You will undoubtedly agree with me that all nuclear States must make an effort if we are to make progress towards a world without nuclear weapons. Therefore, at the NPT Review Conference, Belgium will call for common criteria for nuclear weapons states to address the current imbalance between nuclear weapons states, for example in terms of transparency or the formal termination of nuclear fuel production. These points will be integrated into our general plea for progress on nuclear disarmament, which is currently being countered by the absence of dialogue between most of the states concerned, the increasing tension between the major powers and the introduction of destabilising nuclear capabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u122	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is worrying that several states now believe that nuclear weapons are the answer to increasing security threats. We have already talked about Ukraine today, but the United Kingdom is also coming up again. So there is a new nuclear arms race. This undermines and eliminates all efforts made multilaterally. After all, there are already countries that simply no longer believe in the NPT process. The Treaty becomes meaningless by actions by states such as the United Kingdom. However, the nuclear multilateral treaties are the most important means of breaking the arms race. We therefore certainly encourage the government to stick its necks out, to put this on the table and to find partners at European and international level to continue to raise the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u123	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to bring to your attention the situation of Ahmed Samir Santawy, a 29-year-old Egyptian student who came to study in Europe and was planning to settle in Ghent soon with her girlfriend. Since 1 January 2021, Ahmed Samir has been arbitrarily detained in Egyptian prisons allegedly because of his academic work on women's rights and the history of reproductive rights in Egypt. He is accused of threatening the security of the State and of disseminating false information. On 14 April, 74 organizations, including Amnesty International, issued a statement calling for his immediate and unconditional release. Apart from this particular case, more and more associations are sounding alarms about the human rights situation in Egypt in general. Today, several tens of thousands of people would be imprisoned for their opinions or for what they are. As a result, Minister, what initiatives have your services undertaken to release Ahmed Samir? Have you ever talked to Egyptian diplomacy on the subject? Has our embassy in Cairo made contact with the Egyptian authorities? Have you received any news about the treatment of Ahmed Samir? More broadly, what place does the human rights situation in Egypt take in your discussions with your European counterparts? Have you been able to address this issue at the latest Council of the European Union devoted to external relations? If so, what did he get out of it? Does the Union intend to take action on Egypt? What means of pressure do we have to push Egypt to respect human rights since its increasingly authoritarian drift?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u124	Madam President, Mr De Smet, thank you for your question. We share your concern about the human rights situation in Egypt following the report of increasing restrictions on fundamental freedoms, democratic space and increased repression. With regard to Mr Santawy's detention, I confirm that the services in Brussels such as the Belgian Embassy in Cairo are closely following the situation. Foreign affairs are also in contact with Austrian colleagues and are following Mr Santawy's situation with them. On the ground too, the situation is discussed by our post with Austrian colleagues. We had already referred to Mr Santawy's situation on 2 March 2021 in a question session such as this one. In my reply, I confirmed that the Belgian diplomatic network maintains contacts with representatives of civil society and that our country makes the protection of human rights defenders, the natural and indispensable allies in the promotion of these rights and democratisation, a priority in Belgian foreign policy in this field. This is why Belgium is contributing to the implementation of the EU guidelines on human rights defenders. I had also indicated that, in the context of relations between the European Union and Egypt, Belgium would ensure that this topic remained a priority. Within the framework of the European Neighbourhood Policy, the Association Council also defines the priorities of the partnership, of which human rights are also a part. Within the UN Human Rights Council, Belgium expressed its deep concern about the situation of human rights defenders in Egypt. Belgium also supports the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of defenders, in particular by participating in the interactive dialogue with its independent experts. In particular, during the last universal periodic review of Egypt, Belgium recommended that Egypt repeal all laws and policies that restrict the rights and activities of human rights defenders. It goes without saying that Belgian diplomacy will continue to work, both in bilateral contacts and in multilateral forums, to respect these human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u125	I simply thank the minister and encourage her to continue along this path. We'll support her.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u126	Debates of the European Parliament 55015602C by Mr Loones and 55015633C by Mr Piedboeuf, as they are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u127	Madam President, Minister, a number of major fires have recently been set in motion in the Rohingya refugee camp in Bangladesh. On the affected site, approximately 860,000 refugees belonging to the persecuted Muslim minority in Myanmar are buried. At least 15 people lost their lives there. Thousands of homes were destroyed or damaged, resulting in the displacement of nearly 45,000 refugees. Two clinics and two nutrition points were also destroyed. The camp is largely overcrowded and, given the current situation in Myanmar, the prospect of a return to the country of origin is unlikely. Madam Minister, before I ask you my questions, I would like to ask you to excuse my colleague Michel De Maegd, who would have wanted to be able to question you, but who unfortunately has other obligations. Minister, after the huge fire in the Rohingya refugee camp in Bangladesh, are European aid for reconstruction planned? Are there NGOs or even Belgian citizens? Is the source of the fire already known?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u128	Madam Minister, on Thursday we will vote in plenary for a resolution which strongly condemns the international human rights violations against the Rohingya in Myanmar, as well as the military coup that took place in Myanmar at the end of January, and the lethal violence that followed. This resolution calls on the Government to intervene on the part of Gambia in the case brought by that country against Myanmar in respect of human rights violations against the Rohingya minority, to advocate the establishment of a hybrid criminal tribunal to give concrete effect to the decision of the International Court of Justice in the same case, but also to call for additional sanctions within the Council of the EU and an arms embargo within the UN. That resolution was discussed in the Committee on External Relations just before the Easter holiday, but will be in plenary next Thursday. Meanwhile, a number of MPs in Myanmar have formed a shadow government. However, they are not recognised by the ASEAN countries, which held a summit last Saturday with the military junta on the situation in Myanmar. My questions to you are the following. On 19 April 2021, the EU Foreign Affairs Council imposed further sanctions on Myanmar. How did Belgium intervene in the Council meeting? What message did you give? What is Belgium's position on the alternative government in Myanmar? What message did Belgium or the EU send to ASEAN about the meeting between the ASEAN countries and the military junta?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Myanmar is getting worse and repression is intensifying. Police and military brutality against demonstrators is completely unacceptable. Seven hundred deaths have occurred since then. Three thousand people were arrested. The situation in the country is explosive. This results in significant population displacements. The economic situation is also deteriorating. We are facing alarming developments. These require international reactions beyond mere condemnation. At the last three Foreign Affairs Councils of the European Union, my colleagues and I decided to give a clear signal to the military. In March, the Council imposed sanctions against eleven persons responsible for the coup d'état and the military and police repression against peaceful demonstrators. They are aimed, among other things, at the commander-in-chief of the army and his deputy. The European Union has also decided to suspend all its assistance programmes that could now benefit the military. In addition, the existing sanctions regime relating to the arms embargo and equipment that could be used for internal repression has been extended. On 19 April, we decided to impose additional sanctions against ten new individuals and two army-controlled companies. We will continue to examine all policy options available to us. At the same time, it is important to ensure that measures do not affect the general population. The involvement of the countries in the region could be of decisive importance in this matter, such as the ASEAN countries, the Association of South-East Asian States of which Myanmar is a member. This organisation shall be bound by the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of a Member State. However, some states are determined to find a solution to this crisis. The deteriorating humanitarian situation in Myanmar and the possible repercussions on neighbouring countries could encourage most reluctant countries to react. On 24 April an ASEAN summit was held in Jakarta in the presence of the head of the junta. In the Presidency statement ASEAN recognised the role it could play in finding a solution and agreed on a five-step plan. Firstly, the immediate cessation of violence, secondly, the initiation of a dialogue between all the parties, thirdly, the appointment of an ASEAN Special Envoy to try to facilitate dialogue, fourthly, the provision of humanitarian assistance and, fifthly, a mission of the Special Envoy and a delegation to Myanmar to meet with all the parties. The five-point plan is an encouraging step forward. Of course, we support the commitments to enter into a constructive dialogue involving all parties to seek a peaceful solution. The pursuit of dialogue thus also implies ad hoc contacts with the alternative government. It is essential that the UN authorities continue to exert pressure. Since the coup d'état on 1 February, the Security Council has examined this issue on several occasions. On 10 March, following several amendments by China and Russia, the Council adopted a resolution strongly condemning violence and reaffirming its support for democratic transition. The Secretary-General of the United Nations also closely monitors the situation, including through his Special Envoy for Myanmar, whose efforts must continue to be supported. This international pressure is necessary in the face of a junta that seems determined. Belgium will continue to support all initiatives that will help to resolve this crisis. The coup d'état cannot, moreover, make us forget the humanitarian crisis suffered by the Rohingya. The conclusions adopted by the European Union on 22 February stressed the need for a lasting solution to this crisis and for unlimited humanitarian access to the affected territories. The burning of one of the camps in Cox's Bazar district on 22 March reminded the international community of the sad reality of the Rohingya situation. The origin of the sinister, which caused fifteen deaths and four hundred missing, could not be immediately identified. However, on 22 March, the Bangladeshi authorities appointed a special committee to investigate within three days. On 26 March the committee submitted a report on the incident containing recommendations on safety. However, at this stage no official information has yet been provided on the results of the investigation. The precarious living conditions and overpopulation in Cox's Bazar camps, where more than 900,000 Rohingya refugees live, are, in any case, aggravating factors for the fires that unfortunately occur quite frequently in these camps. In January 2021, two large fires had already broken out in which thousands of Rohingyas became homeless and four schools managed by UNICEF were destroyed. In cooperation with the Bengal authorities, international aid organisations and NGOs are currently relocating around 45,000 refugees who have lost their homes. On 22 March 2021, the European Commission released an initial emergency aid of EUR 500 000 used by the International Organisation for Migration to address the housing problem of around 10,000 families. ECHO then granted EUR 150 000 to the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies to cover part of the health and food needs. Further support is also envisaged. They are in addition to an emergency humanitarian assistance of EUR 24.5 million already provided by the European Union to humanitarian actors present in Bangladesh for the year 2021. According to our information, there are no Belgian NGOs present in Cox's Bazar, and only one Belgian national, a former collaborator of a now retired Belgian humanitarian organization, is officially registered in this city. I can assure you that the Department will continue, in collaboration with our embassies in New Delhi and Bangkok, to follow closely developments in the situation of Rohingya refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u130	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your reply. It is good to hear that Belgium will actively support European initiatives on the situation in Myanmar. The Rohingya are threatened with genocide. It is important in this matter that we do not state that fact, but that it is referred to by an independent international body and that it is also confirmed by the decisions of an international court. The importance of Thursday's resolution is that, on the basis of the data collected by that international body, our country plays a leading role in a very concrete case, in which a minority, being the Rohingya, is threatened with genocide. The resolution therefore calls for action to be taken on the part of the Gambia. We would therefore take that lead role together with the Netherlands and Canada. I therefore hope that you will be able to work quickly on our resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u131	Minister, following the announcement of the withdrawal of the Western armed forces, the so-called "progressive" Afghan women suffered massive attacks against them. A dozen women who were deemed too Westernized were shot dead. A climate of fear has re-established in the country. For example, almost 18 per cent of women working in the media have had to leave their posts in the past six months. The Taliban with their fundamentalist ideology believe that the place of women is simply at home. Advances in women's rights in Afghanistan could go back centuries if the international coalition did not remain vigilant. Together with my colleagues in the MR group in the House, we will table a resolution on the protection of women and the participation of women in the peace process in Afghanistan. Minister, I would like to know your level of knowledge of this issue. In fact, things have changed dramatically in recent weeks. Similarly, is this issue being considered at the level of the international coalition? What path is it taking in relation to what is a fundamental right and a basis for any possibility of democratisation in this country for a self?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u132	Ms Jadin, over the past 20 years, Afghanistan has seen progress in terms of human rights and the rule of law. This is particularly the case for women's rights. This issue is systematically raised by Western partners, particularly Belgium, in the framework of intra-Afghan negotiations. During our mandate to the United Nations Security Council in 2019-2020, Belgium had taken a systematic and strong stand to increase the presence of women at the talks table. In addition, Belgium provided various funding to UN Women in Afghanistan between 2014 and 2017, as well as funding in 2019-2020 for the Women, Peace and Security programme. The fight for Afghan women's rights is obviously far from over. In this new context of uncertainty, I can assure you that the protection of women's physical integrity and respect for their rights will receive special attention. Attention, moreover, which has also been mentioned in the security context in terms of the presence of troops on the ground. It's a question that goes back to every floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u133	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. If this resolution were to be adopted, which I call for, you will still have an additional instrument with, I hope, additional possibilities to be able to defend this issue at international level. I wish you a lot of courage - but I know you have some.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u134	Madam Minister, following the visit of the Azerbaijani President to an exhibition of helmets and uniforms of possibly deceased Armenian soldiers, the emotions of Armenia and Azerbaijan are raging again. It is reported that Azerbaijani President Aliyev, dressed in military uniform, has visited a new open-air museum in which hundreds of helmets captured, uniforms of possibly killed Armenian soldiers are exhibited as trophies. Madam Secretary, are you aware of these facts? What does the government think of this action by the Azerbaijani president? Have you raised the facts with, for example, the Azerbaijani ambassador? If no, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u135	Madam President, Mrs Samyn, developments in Nagorno-Karabakh continue to attract the attention of the international community and the various actors involved. The situation has evolved since our last meeting on 2 March. On the diplomatic front, the OSCE Minsk Group and its co-chairs Russia, France and the United States continue their efforts to negotiate a lasting peace. The President-in-Office of the OSCE, the Swedish Foreign Minister, Mrs Ann Linde, visited Baku and Jerevan in mid-March. It met with the President of Azerbaijan and his Foreign Minister, the Prime Minister of Armenia, his Foreign Minister and the President of Armenia. On behalf of the OSCE countries, it stressed the importance of respecting the principles of the OSCE and international law, including international humanitarian law and human rights. It also urged the full implementation of the ceasefire on 10 November 2020 and called on both parties to grant various international actors access to the region of Nagorno-Karabakh and the area controlled by Azerbaijan around Nagorno-Karabakh. On 13 April, the co-chairs of the Minsk Group, in a joint declaration, welcomed progress on the exchange of material surpluses, humanitarian assistance and discussions on the inclusion of new communication channels. They also stressed the need to continue efforts in four areas. Firstly, this is necessary for the return of the remaining prisoners, in accordance with international law. This issue is particularly important for Azerbaijan. Secondly, further efforts are needed in connection with the exchange of information on minefields, an issue which is particularly important for Armenia. Thirdly, the removal of restrictions on access to Nagorno-Karabakh and the surrounding areas should be further pursued in order to enable the organisation of a joint UN mission to assess humanitarian, medical and infrastructure needs. Fourthly, a UNESCO mission should be deployed to identify the needs to preserve and possibly restore the region's important religious and cultural heritage, both Christian and Islamic. As regards the reconciliation process, despite the efforts of the OSCE and the co-chairmen of the Minsk Group, the only international forum authorised by the international community to negotiate a solution to the conflict, it should be noted that Russia, the architect of the 10 November 2020 ceasefire, is still in control. This is evident from the visit of Prime Minister Nikol Pashinian to Moscow on 7 April, the telephone conversation between Presidents Putin and Aliyev on the same day and the continuation of the activities of the trilateral working group Russia-Armenia-Azerbaijan at the level of the Deputy Prime Ministers. At humanitarian level, much of the emergency aid is covered by the International Committee of the Red Cross, which has been working in Nargorno-Karabakh for almost 30 years, and by humanitarian aid from Russia. Belgium also contributes loyally to the ICRC. The Belgian contribution to the ICRC has therefore been increased from 8.5 million euros in 2020 to 12 million euros in 2021 for all operations, given the numerous crises and commitment of Belgian diplomacy. In addition, in February last year, the European Commission decided to allocate an additional budget of EUR 3.9 million to Nagorno-Karabakh. However, the involvement of a specialised UN agency still depends on the on-site visit, which in turn will depend on an agreement between the Armenian and Azerbaijani authorities on the practical arrangements for access to Nagorno-Karabakh and neighbouring areas. This extremely political issue, in the absence of a mission, is an obstacle to the involvement of the UN and also of the European Commission and Belgium in addressing specific humanitarian needs and in any contribution to the reconstruction of the region. Without an inventory and identification of humanitarian and socio-economic needs in the former combat zone in and around Nagorno-Karabakh, it is difficult for the European Union and Belgium to commit themselves to reconstruction and development projects. In its contacts, Belgium always calls on the parties to be flexible and to seek a pragmatic solution. I was just talking about the thorny issue of Armenian prisoners and the handing over to the Azerbaijani authorities of the map of minefields created by Armenian troops at various times during the conflict. According to our information, at least 62 Armenian civilians are still being held in Azerbaijan and, according to the Armenian authorities, almost 180 people are still trapped in Azerbaijani prisons. As the search for missing persons is complicated and time-consuming, it seems difficult to give an accurate estimate of the number of Armenian citizens still in prison. We're waiting for more clarification from Jerevan. It is important that Azerbaijan abides by international law, strictly respects the ceasefire of 10 November 2020 and immediately returns Armenian prisoners. My answer is still two pages, Madam President, but a lot of questions have been asked and it is important to give a full state of affairs. There is also uncertainty about the mapping of the minefields created during the various confrontations. This is an important issue for the Belgian diplomatic action. As a reminder, in 1995, Belgium was the first country to adopt national legislation banning anti-personnel mines. Together with Canada, we were also the driving force behind the Ottawa Convention, which prohibited the production and use of anti-personnel mines. Since the signing of this treaty, we have continued to work for its universalisation and we have supported each other in the various mine-mining projects. Since the end of hostilities, approximately 60 anti-personnel mines have occurred in the areas controlled by Azerbaijan, including in and around Nagorno-Karabakh. Many civilian victims were involved who had travelled to these areas to visit the houses from which they and/or their relatives had been expelled in the early 1990s. It is essential that Armenia provide through the ICRC or the Russian peace contingent any information that may facilitate the mine-mining operation in Nagorno-Karabakh and the neighbouring areas under its control until recently. Finally, the preservation of religious and cultural heritage, both in Nagorno-Karabakh and in the surrounding region, is also a central element in the process of rapprochement and the establishment of lasting peace. In order to take stock of heritage destroyed or threatened by one protagonist or another, it is necessary and in the interest of the various parties to organise a UNESCO mission on the ground. However, the organisation of this mission, as well as a mission of the subsidised UN agency, is still awaited, as has already been said. Mrs Samyn, I have two more pages to answer. Especially at this advanced hour, that's a bit annoying. What am I doing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u136	You may also look diagonally until you come to my questions or else you may deliver it to me in writing or put it in the report, if that is easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u137	I stopped just before your answer, but that didn't happen on purpose. I would also like to focus on actions that can further promote enemy thinking and hatred. In this context, I refer to one of the questions about the recent opening of a museum dedicated to the second war in Karabach in Baku on 12 April by President Aliyev, in his capacity as commander-in-chief of the Azerbaijani armed forces. The museum exhibits a large amount of military equipment taken from the Armenian armed forces during the war. These include tanks, combat vehicles, transport equipment, rocket launchers, helmets and uniforms. Everyone is of course free to set up a museum to commemorate an important military feat, we think of the Bastogne Memorial in our country. However, what hits the chest in the museum in Baku is the unnecessary caricature and humiliating representation of the Armenian military. This can only stir up hatred and feed the enemy's mind. In the post-conflict situation in which we are now faced, we must avoid any further provocation, in order not to hypothesize the efforts of the international community to bring about an extremely difficult rapprochement between the two countries and peoples. Mrs Samyn, thank you for your patience. I would also like to thank the services. They know how important this story is for everyone in Parliament and they have done their best to be as complete as possible in the answers that have been drawn up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u138	Madam Minister, thank you for always staying in committee for a very long time to answer questions. That cannot be said of every minister in the committee. So thank you for staying until seven o'clock anyway. I have taken note of your very comprehensive answer. I also got answers to questions I hadn't even asked, which is nicely taken. This act, the public humiliation of war victims, missing persons and prisoners of war by President Aliyev, is yet another blow to the face of the Armenian people. The Armenian Ministry of Foreign Affairs rightly claims that this exhibition violates the rights and dignity of the deceased military and their family members. Moreover, the Azerbaijani president also felt it necessary to report in a video message that anyone visiting the military trophy park will experience the power of his army. It is understandable that the anger in Armenia is great. Not only did Azerbaijan destroy cultural heritage in the conflict, such as churches, and damaged cemeteries, but now the relatives are also confronted with such distasteful acts. I hope that, if you see the opportunity, you will raise this at another European summit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic449x.u139	Madam Secretary, thank you, your services and, in particular, the services of the Chamber for this sitting. We'll start next Tuesday at 9:00 a.m. with question No. 55016880C.
