ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u1	Madam President, Madam Minister, since 28 April last, the day of a national strike against Ivan Duque's government's tax reform project, large-scale demonstrations have taken place in Colombia. Despite the withdrawal of the bill on 2 May, following the massive popular uprisings and pressures in that country, the demands of the population have turned into a general protest against the right-wing government, denouncing the country's serious social, economic and political crisis. The aim of the reform was to balance public finances by, inter alia, increasing taxes for individuals and businesses, resulting in an impoverishment of the middle and working classes already heavily and severely affected by the health crisis. Indeed, Colombia is the third country in Latin America most affected by the Covid-19 pandemic – after Brazil and Mexico – with, unfortunately, more than 2.8 million cases and nearly 74,000 deaths. The government deployed no fewer than 47,500 law enforcement officers to the country to deal with the protests. According to Colombian civil society organisations – gathered under the campaign "Defendering freedom is everyone's business" – on the only day of 28 April, 286 people were reportedly arrested in several cities in the country. According to the latest Human Rights Watch report, since the protests began on 28 April, 68 deaths have been recorded by Colombian organizations Temblores and Defender la Libertad. On 6 June, Colombian President Ivan Duque made a commitment to the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, which was visiting Colombia, to reform the police, investigate 21 deaths during the demonstrations and prosecute and punish the police officers involved. Five years after the signing of the peace agreements in Colombia, it must be noted that it is the citizens who continue to suffer. What information do you have from our diplomacy on the spot? Has Belgium taken a position within the European Union on this matter, and if so, what position has it taken? In one of your replies sent by mail to certain Belgian civil society organisations on 25 May 2021, you would have indicated that the Belgian government would relay the message that the European Union trusts the Colombian authorities to investigate and bring to justice those responsible for abuses and violations of human rights. I hope that this response – which would imply that the fate of Colombians on the streets must remain in the hands of a government that has so far been unable to deliver on its promises to enable the country to build a lasting peace based on dialogue and social justice – to send the Colombian population back to a government that has made the choice of all security, is not Belgium's only response lever. So what have you actually done in this direction for almost two months now?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u2	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I am not going to repeat the description of the facts made by our excellent colleague Lacroix. I shall confine myself to a very specific question which seems to me to be a potential lever of action. It was raised by the Minister-President of the Walloon Region very recently. This is the famous investment agreement we have made with Colombia. We would like to see how far it would be possible to initiate the planned suspension in the event of massive repression of civilian populations and massive violations of human rights, as is unfortunately the case here since the start of the tumult, strikes and repression in April.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u3	Madam Vice Prime Minister, the situation was indeed given by Mr Lacroix. The social unrest that has broken out in Colombia as a result of the reform of the tax law certainly has a huge impact on a large part of the population. That law has led to a great protest in the country. The reform of the tax law was particularly difficult in the severe economic context of the corona pandemic in which thousands of companies went bankrupt and led to an increase in poverty from 37% to 45%. The street protest that resulted from this has also caused the Colombian security forces to react very harshly. The violence killed a student from secondary education, a teenager, and put a bullet in the head for a student of Arts. The images of those scenes went viral. Of course, the protests cannot be separated from the forthcoming parliamentary and presidential elections and the associated electoral fever. Looks like the left-wing former mayor of Bogota Petro spins into it politically. The political consequences must of course remain to be seen, but I would like to ask you a number of questions. Have you been in contact with the Colombian ambassador or the Foreign Minister? How do you estimate the consequences of this street and police violence on the political situation in Colombia? Is this, in your opinion, a possible starting point for an escalation to civil war? What impact could this have on Belgian-Colombian relations? Do you or the government take initiatives in international and European fora to condemn the extreme police violence against demonstrators in Colombia and encourage dialogue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u4	Madam Minister, the direct cause of the current uprising in Colombia, as just outlined, was the intention of the United States-supported government to impose a number of unfair taxes on a population already severely affected by the failing approach to the covid pandemic and the resulting economic crisis. The fact that the rebellion continues to continue, despite an incredibly brutal and violent repression by both order forces and paramilitary organisations, even after President Duque soon withdrew that proposal, shows that the protest, like the general strike, is about much more. For example, the protesting population is demanding not only the immediate withdrawal of the army from the cities, an end to repression and an investigation into the culprits of the many murders, disappearances, rapes and injuries of the last few weeks, but also an end to the violent repression of every opposition and social protest that has been going on for decades. The people also demand that the government respect the peace agreements it has concluded with the FARC but has never complied with. She also demands that the many paramilitary organisations be wound up and that what she calls the genocide on social movements cease. For 60 years, successive conservative governments have been treating social movements and the left-wing opposition in their country as war enemies. During President Uribe's term alone, the Colombian government received millions of military and other aid from the United States for the so-called Plan Colombia, which ostentatiously waged the fight against 'drugs and terror', but in reality led to the disappearance of 20,000 human rights defenders, indigenous activists, environmental activists, trade union activists, politicians and journalists. Colombia has been known for years as the most dangerous country in the world for activists. Madam Secretary, will the government, in its bilateral contacts with the Colombian and American governments, insist that the legitimate demands of the people be met? Will Belgium, as champion of universal human rights in the world, also advocate this with the European Union and the United Nations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the riots, the Belgian Embassy in Bogota has very regularly informed my services of the progress of the demonstrations and the reactions and the decisions of the government. At the request of many of you, I therefore come back to the facts. As early as November 2019, Colombia experienced a period of protests against the government's considered too austere policy and the national dialogue that was launched and was due to end in March 2020 did not produce any results. The fear of a general increase in taxes through the tax reform announced in April 2021 and the increase in poverty also due to the pandemic have given rise to new manifestations. The purpose of this tax reform was to address the shortcomings identified by the OECD. The 2019 OECD Economic Report highlights the shortcomings of the current tax system and highlights the small share of individual contributions that the OECD believes should be increased. In addition, additional social assistance programmes were planned. Many demonstrations took place without problems, but particularly serious events with excessive violence by the security forces were recorded in some areas. This repressive approach of the government has itself become a major source of protest in the conflict. On 25 May, a provisional agreement was reached between the government and the strike committee guaranteeing the peaceful nature of the demonstration. The signing of that agreement was postponed at the request of the President, whose party is divided on the issue. The situation in Cali is most problematic perhaps because of the destabilising infiltration of criminal groups. Eleven people were killed and several wounded, after civilians had shot unarmed demonstrators. This led the President to issue Decree 575 which allows military assistance to local authorities. The decree contains no reference to respect for human rights and could be used by the government as a basis for repressive interventions. Several academic analyses point to the unconstitutional nature of the decree: neither parliament nor local authorities are consulted beforehand and the army has no powers to act during the demonstration of citizens. In the case of the opposition, the decree means that the state of emergency is imposed, without complying with the constitutional requirements laid down for that purpose. Supporters of the government point out that the constitutional article is part of the government's legitimate legal arsenal. The negotiations are now in full swing, and it is clear that the tensions will not diminish as long as the government and the strike committee do not reach a political compromise. Under pressure from his party, the president continues to emphasise the security issue with a prominent role for the army, alongside a highly militarised police force. The needs and demands expressed by the many groups during the protests are now largely in line with the objectives of the peace agreement signed with the FARC in 2016. A solution to the current crisis requires answers to this effect, including a more committed implementation of the peace agreement led by the President. With regard to our reaction and the response of the international community, on every occasion, at European, UN and bilateral level, Belgium calls for the full implementation of the 2016 peace agreement. The situation in Colombia was discussed on 18 May and 1 June in the relevant working group of the Council of the European Union. Colombia remains an important partner for the EU. The Member States, including Belgium, expressed concern about the latest socio-political developments and stressed the importance of dialogue in response to the crisis and of the accelerated implementation of the peace agreement, which meets many social requirements. This is also the message of the HR/VP sent during a telephone call with President Duque. In Bogota too, the EU is trying to engage with all stakeholders in order to encourage this dialogue and ease tensions. Belgium is part of this approach and our embassy in Bogota has publicly encouraged a resumption of dialogue on several occasions. Belgium has good bilateral relations with Colombia, but this crisis is indeed mobilizing our attention. In addition to our contacts on the ground, Foreign Affairs also met with representatives of civil society to keep abreast of the events. Our country deplores the loss of life and condemns the use of violence by law enforcement officials and demonstrators. It is the Colombian State, in the first place, that must provide a judicial response to the dramatic events that have taken place. We therefore support the appeal to the Government of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights to address human rights violations in a transparent manner and to seek a peaceful and negotiated solution to the social unrest. The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights visited Colombia from 8 to 10 June to observe the situation after the protests started on 28 April. The extension and extension of the mandate of the UN verification mission in Colombia should also allow full implementation of the peace agreement, creating a more serene environment for the resolution of the current crisis. The issue of Colombia is discussed quarterly in the UN Security Council so that developments on the ground can be monitored. The free trade agreement between the EU and Colombia contains a human rights clause which is an essential element of the agreement. This clause allows each Contracting Party to take action in the event of a breach of these principles, including in the final instance the suspension of the Agreement. This agreement must be seen as one of the instruments in the hands of the European Union to evoke respect for human rights with our partners. It seems to me preferable to seek dialogue rather than to suspend a trade agreement at all costs. To activate the essential clause of a trade agreement in order to request the suspension of the trade agreement must be a means of last resort in case of manifest and continuous bad will of the trading partner. In the meantime, it seems appropriate for the EU to encourage the Colombian government with a combination of means, to support it if necessary to put an end to the vicious circle of violence and impunity. Two main reasons prompt me to point out this. On the one hand, the European Union is only Colombia's third largest trading partner, far behind the United States and China. Therefore, to hope that human rights violations will cease because the EU suspends or threatens to suspend the agreement is, I think, not realistic. Suspending the agreement amounts in a way to skipping all stages and depriving the EU of an important means of pressure. On the other hand, we have several levers which must be applied successively and gradually both bilaterally and Europeanly and multilaterally. The trade agreement may be one such means, in particular to promote workers' rights. It includes commitments in this area as well as a mechanism for consultation with civil society. The implementation of the provisions of this chapter is closely monitored by the Commission, civil society and the FPS Foreign Affairs, including our embassy on the spot. Finally, as I have said in the past, Belgium is the only Member State in the European Union that has not yet ratified this trade agreement in view of blockages at the level of certain federated entities. It therefore seems difficult to rely on clauses of an agreement that we are the only ones that have not yet ratified. I would like to take this opportunity to stress that in order to take full advantage of the clauses that are important to us, such as those on human rights, it is preferable to be involved in the agreements. I'm talking in general. It is precisely because Belgium has not concluded its ratification procedure that our voice is objectively less audible or less legitimate in this debate. Mrs Reynaert, the travel advice on the FPS Foreign Affairs website has been modified. The travel advice will be reviewed on a very regular basis, in order to provide our compatriots with adequate and comprehensive safety advice. However, the opinion is not binding. According to our information, the United States is also very concerned about developments in Colombia, although it does not intend to appoint a special envoy for Colombia and the peace process at the moment. I must add a little more detail to the reading of the answer I have given you. When I say that our voice is less strong in the European forum as to the application of the agreement, whether it has been signed or not, that obviously does not prevent us - do not make me say what I did not say! - to express ourselves vigorously and formally and to follow the situation on the spot, foot on foot, as our services do both at the embassy and here. Mr President, I am absolutely sorry, but if I do not leave now, I will face a serious problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u6	... A serious diplomatic incident which we also wish to avoid, as parliamentarians!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u7	Mr President, thank you. Forgive me once again. I'll be back as soon as I can to listen to the lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u8	Thank you, Minister. Please convey the greetings of our commission to His Excellency President Joe Biden and His Majesty the King.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u9	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for coming back from the Royal Palace. I hope you've had a fruitful meeting with President Biden and Secretary of State Blinken. In any case, it was an honor for you to have been able to do so. It's great. We will now proceed with the replies to your replies on the situation in Colombia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u10	Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor for a reply which is certainly somewhat delayed. I understand, of course, the constraints of your office, Madam Minister, and the important meetings that you often have – especially today. I would like to thank you for your answer, but by adding that it must not overshadow the urgency of implementing the commitments made by the Colombian Government in the framework of the peace agreement. This requires structural reforms to address the political, social and economic crisis the country is currently experiencing, which has worsened the covid epidemic, pushing thousands of Colombians down the street. You condemned the violence. In comparison with the message you sent to non-governmental organisations asking them to trust the Colombian government in the follow-up to the crisis, you have shown a major development in your position, which is that of Belgium and the European Union. It should be recalled that the Commission has granted EUR 96 million in aid for the peace agreement - apart from trade agreements - so that the Colombian government can commit itself to a lasting peace for its citizens. It is in this sense that I have tabled a motion for a resolution which I hope I will be able to develop very soon in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u11	Minister, I also thank you for your answer. In my view, our assembly must send two messages. First of all, the inacceptable police repression must stop. We are talking about fundamental freedoms: the right to express oneself, to assemble peacefully, to protest and to defend the most essential trade union freedoms. Secondly, we must show our solidarity with the Colombian people in their absolutely legitimate aspiration for fairer public policies. It seems to me essential to recall that the economic impact of the covid-19 pandemic has plunged nearly half of the country's 50 million people into extreme poverty. Therefore, an extremely firm message must be sent to the President of Colombia in order to respect human rights, as well as the need for perspectives on education, health care and social justice. We must remember that these are not privileges, but simply social and economic rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u12	Madam Secretary, I would like to say two things. The right to peaceful protest is a basic right, and it should be right everywhere in the world, whether in Colombia, Hong Kong or Belgium. I would like to stress once again that irresponsible police violence should be condemned. The police brutality we witnessed in Colombia, of course, was only intended to stop the protests and had nothing to do with law enforcement. I would like to stress that. I would ask you to monitor the situation very closely and, through international fora, to contribute to or at least steer towards a structural solution on the ground. That must be the main concern at the moment. We will continue to follow up the file, hopefully with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u13	Madam Minister, my group believes that it must be clear that Belgium strongly condemns this excessive violence by the government. The Colombian Government must respect human rights and trade union rights as well as freedom of demonstration. That's very important. It must also guarantee respect for the peace agreements. We therefore ask you to interpeal with the Colombian ambassador in Belgium. I understand you sent a signal, but it hasn't happened yet. We are very pleased, however, that you support the request of civil society organisations for an international investigation into the events. As you yourself have pointed out, there is indeed an EU trade agreement with Colombia which includes a human rights clause, even though it has not yet been fully ratified. It is important that the signal is given that we can also act by this route. Before the clause enters into force, certain steps are taken in any case. It is important that that signal is given from Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u14	Madam Secretary, it is not illogical that Colombia is still the advanced front of the United States in South America. At present, the US unreservedly protects the corrupt regime in Colombia and gives it the free hand for the repression of its own population, in exchange for the role it plays in countering, sabotaging and suppressing the sovereignty of other South American states that want to pursue a more independent course and cast off the yoke of American interference. It is therefore no surprise that the Colombian security services work closely with the Israeli apartheid regime and apply the same tactics to the indigenous people of Colombia. Here again we see a flagrant example of double standards and two weights, especially of the United States, when the so-called family of democracies applies its so-called values. Human rights are being instrumentalized to demonize opponents and the liberation movement and to impose devastating sanctions on them while the allies get away with a friendly, purely verbal touch. If I have heard correctly, the United States does not even want to send a peace envoy. When it comes to the FARC or Venezuela, there are, of course, immediate sanctions, but Colombia is a loyal ally and the human rights discourse of course weighs less heavily. In any case, we will continue to follow up on this issue and we hope that you will continue to argue within the European Union and the UN in favour of respecting the 2016 agreement. You must also continue to strongly condemn repression against social activists, trade unionists and movements in Colombia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u15	Madam President, Minister, I thank you for your very clear, very detailed and absolutely constructed answer. With regard to the message, I can only support you with regard to this firm condemnation of violence and human rights violations in Colombia. To draw on the instruments available to us, in an international way, with our Belgian diplomacy in order to convey this message is essential. I also welcome the fact that you recognize the need for a Commissioner-General of the United Nations to inquire into the subject. It is very important that we can continue to follow closely what is happening in Colombia, so that I hope, from Belgium, we can contribute to a pacification and full democratic restoration in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u16	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. Like some of my colleagues, I cannot overemphasize the overwhelming responsibility of the Colombian government in this matter. He's the one who's criminalizing demonstrations. It is he who militarizes his regime as the only answer. We know how sensitive it is to international opinion. It is really essential to maintain the pressure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u17	Minister, my questions address three distinct themes. The first relates to the analysis of a series of NGOs of the situation in the Palestinian territories and Israel. Human Rights Watch and B'Tselem are now talking about apartheid crimes, crimes against humanity and persecution in the head of the Israeli authorities. According to the Israeli Minister for Foreign Affairs, they were sweeping these accusations with a back of their hands and talking about "propaganda letters". Minister, how do you integrate these analyses into your reading of the conflict and its evolution? On 19 January, you informed us that B'Tselem's work on this issue had not been discussed at European level. Since then, has that been the case? The second theme concerns the follow-up to the 19 May Kern, which had set a first course by deciding to engage further in measures to differentiate products from the occupied territories and, above all, to make them effective. Moreover, this was part of your policy brief. At the plenary session on 20 May, you made a series of other announcements. As far as differentiation is concerned, a technical meeting should be held in order to improve the application of European Community law and case law. In addition, the issue needed to be addressed at European level. Could you tell me what the result of these consultations was? Similarly, you would say that at the European Foreign Affairs Council you advocated the drafting of a road map for indicative and/or binding levers. How has progress been made on this point? The third theme concerns the new session of the Human Rights Council, which will open on 21 June. A significant part of the debate will undoubtedly be devoted to the situation in the Middle East. On 27 May, the Council decided to establish a commission of inquiry to address violations of international humanitarian and human rights law. These violations were committed in the occupied territories, including East Jerusalem and Israel, during the recent clashes between Hamas and the Hebrew State. But that's not all. It will also be, and I repeat the words of the United Nations, to study all the root and underlying causes of recurrent tensions, instability and prolongation of conflicts, including discrimination and systematic repression based on national, ethnic, racial or religious identity. At this meeting, the issue of the database of economic actors related to Israeli colonization will probably also be raised. At the February-March session, High Commissioner Michelle Bachelet had, it is recalled, flouted the lack of resources at her disposal to update the list on an annual basis. Minister, how will Belgium support this request to update the list? Similarly, how will we support the committee of inquiry in its work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u18	Madam President, Madam Minister, the situation in Palestine and Israel has changed considerably. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict had taken a dramatic turn in recent weeks. After many calls for calm and cessation of hostilities, including yours, the hostilities finally ended on 21 May, which I welcome. In the aftermath, Yair Lapid announced that he had formed a coalition. Indeed, the leaders of eight Israeli parties validated the agreement, which had been under discussion for several months. It will benefit from a short parliamentary majority with 61 out of 120 MPs. The consequence is important since the accession to power of Naftali Bennett puts an end to a twelve-year reign without interruption of Benyamin Netanyahu. Minister, as regards the situation between the two countries, what information do you have on the observance of the cease-fire in force? Have there been any new tensions? Are there any new tensions in the region? With regard to the new coalition in Israel, what is your reaction? How do you analyze this alliance between parties that everything seems to oppose? In concrete terms, what changes could this change bring in our bilateral and multilateral relations with Israel?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u19	Mr. Dallemagne is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u20	Madam Minister, we have all witnessed the horrific images from Palestine over the past month. In Gaza, dozens of children were killed by ruthless and massive air strikes at the open air prison in which they reside. Palestinian citizens were also attacked and lynched in Israel. Palestinian businesses were also attacked and ruined. These groups were eventually protected by the police forces and by occupying forces from the West Bank. The Belgian Government's response can only be described as unsatisfactory. You still do not consider it necessary to condemn the Israeli apartheid system, nor the inhuman blockade of Gaza, which has been going on for 14 years, nor the brutal massacres of the Israeli army on the citizens of Gaza. All of this seems to fall within the very stretchy understanding of the Israeli right to self-defense. However, you explicitly condemn the resistance of the Palestinian people. However, international law, as provided for in the Geneva Convention, gives every occupied or colonised people the clear right to defend themselves against the violence of the occupier or coloniser, and that by all means, also military. While you have condemned the expulsions of Palestinians in East Jerusalem, you still do not apply any measures for the time being. In doing so, you follow the policy of the European Union and the United States in general, which selectively condemns flagrant violations of universal human rights, which they so fervently claim to defend, according to whether they serve or harm Western economic and political interests. The Palestinian community in Israel and the occupied territories have long been calling for concrete measures against the Israeli apartheid regime. Since you have made it clear that you are refusing to consider sanctions against this self-declared ally, my question is whether you would like to advocate the following requests from the Palestinian community in Israel yourself to the European Union and the United Nations. Firstly, it calls on the United Nations to carry out an investigation into the Israeli apartheid system, as requested by inter alia 11.11.11. Secondly, it calls for a United Nations peacekeeping force to be sent to Israel to protect the Palestinian community from the violence perpetrated by the Israeli state. I also wonder what the Israeli state still has to do before the sanctions policy of the European Union and Belgium is also engaged against that self-proclaimed ally, who has been in violation of international law for more than 70 years. I'll put together the rest of my questions. Since the Palestinians also revolted in Israel and in the occupied territories last month, and in the meantime also held a general strike on 18 May, a wave of state repression has started against them. More than 1,000 Palestinian citizens of Israel have been arrested in what the Israeli human rights organisation Adalah calls a militarised revenge action. Thirty Palestinian demonstrators were also murdered in the West Bank since 10 May. Sheikh Jarrah and other neighborhoods in East Jerusalem are hermetically sealed and terrorized with tear gas and stink bombs that engulf the districts in toxic clouds. A minor Palestinian was murdered in Jerusalem and another child was shot in the head in Hebron. Reporters Without Borders also reported that the Israeli occupiers arrested at least 13 journalists for reporting on this brutal and violent repression. Do you also believe that this kind of repression can still be called a truce? What will you do to stop this massive human rights violation? Will you charge the Israeli occupying forces with the continued attacks on the freedom of the press?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u21	Madam President, Minister, several of my colleagues have already mentioned certain elements, including episodes of tension. I would like to return to the first questions I asked you a few weeks or even months ago concerning the situation of the inhabitants of Sheikh Jarrah and Silwan, two neighbourhoods in East Jerusalem, that is, recognized under international law as Palestinian and where citizens are very frequently subjected to expulsions and repression from extremist settlers. Minister, what are Belgium's actions for these Palestinians? Another element that set fire to the powders is the demonstrations of Israeli far-right organizations, such as Lehava, who departs from West Jerusalem to head towards the Damascus Gate in East Jerusalem, shouting, in particular, "Death to the Arabs! Let their villages burn!" A new demonstration of this type is scheduled for tomorrow. What is Belgium's position with regard to these demonstrations? There is much talk of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, including in this commission, when there are episodes of violence. But violence is systemic and general. The day before yesterday, at the Qalandiya checkpoint, a young woman was killed by the Israeli police. Another Palestinian was killed on the margins of a demonstration against illegal settlements near Nablus. Last Thursday, three Palestinians were killed in the West Bank during exchanges of fire with Israeli forces conducting an operation in the city of Jenin. This violence is in reality daily. What is Belgium doing, outside the general framework, to combat this violence? I come back to East Jerusalem where a series of evictions took place. But there are not only evictions. There are also revocations of residence permits, houses destroyed for archaeological reasons in Silwan but also to create areas of tourist interest, as the Israeli authorities mention them. What are Belgium's actions to combat this attempt at demographic expulsion of Palestinians? As my colleague De Maegd said, a new Israeli government is being set up. We have to name things. The current Israeli Prime Minister is a prime minister of an assumed far-right party, homophobic, misogynist, racist. I'm not going back to the statements he was able to make. The government agreement between Benny Gantz and Naftali Bennett included the annexation of 70 per cent of the West Bank, largely the Jordan Valley. What preventive measures will be put in place? I welcome the sanctions that you called for against Belarus a few weeks ago following the hijacking of aircraft and the sanctions that are being discussed today with Mr Biden against China. I question the fact that the word "sanction" cannot be pronounced with regard to Israel. One of the previous speakers spoke of "relevance" and called on you not to make variable geometry in the approach to international law. Unfortunately, I think that his political formation is not particularly well placed to make such remarks. Having said that, I encourage you to have, in fact, an international policy that is not of variable geometry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u22	Madam Minister, with regard to the escalation of the conflict between Israel and Palestine, we have all seen that this escalation has become widespread in recent times. There were attacks on the Al-Aqsamoskee in Jerusalem, Israeli orders responded hard to Palestinians throwing stones at them, a fire was started, and several deaths were also killed on both sides. Hamas responded by firing missiles at various Israeli cities and villages, including Tel Aviv and even West Jerusalem. Tensions have also escalated in the mixed Jewish-Palestinian city of Lod. There's been a fire in synagogues. Meanwhile, the bombings continued and the missiles went back and forth between Gaza and Israel. The United Nations had already warned of a large-scale conflict between Israel and the Palestinians. There was a joint statement by the UN Security Council, but it was blocked by the US. Meanwhile, it seems that Islamic and Jewish communities are importing the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians into our territory. The polarization also increases between Arab and Jewish populations. In Germany, for example, there were already large pro-Palestinian parades. In our country, too, we have been able to see it. My questions to you are the following. Have you been in contact with the Israeli Ambassador or the Foreign Minister, respectively, and a Palestinian envoy? How do you see this conflict evolve further? Is there potential for escalation to a large-scale regional conflict in which Iran and the US, for example, continue to clash directly? Is there any danger that this Middle Eastern conflict on our territory will continue to escalate tensions between Jewish and Islamic communities? How do you respond to that? Are you in agreement with the Minister of the Interior about this? I would like to hear your views on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u23	Madam President, Minister, I have a specific question on the report by Human Rights Watch. This organisation has published a comprehensive report in which it concludes that Israel is guilty of apartheid and of persecution against the Palestinian people. Apartheid is a legal term that involves severe discriminatory repression. She's also a crime against humanity. The human rights organisation writes very carefully in the report how Israel benefits Jewish citizens in all aspects of life, such as access to land, access to water, and freedom of movement over the territory, as well as in how the country deprives Palestinians of rights, such as the right to return to their own territory and the right to nationality. Israel does so in order to maintain the geographical Jewish dominance over the Palestinian citizens. It is not the first time that a human rights organisation has come to that conclusion. As Mr Ben Achor pointed out, the Israeli organisation B'Tselem already used that term in January 2021 in one of its reports. I have the following specific questions for you. Have you taken note of the report of Human Rights Watch published on 27 April 2021? What's your response to the report? The report makes a whole series of recommendations specifically aimed at the European Union and the Member States. What is Belgium's position on these specific recommendations? Are you prepared to instruct your services to start a reflection on the issue in the short term, with the accusations being examined in detail and to share and discuss with Parliament the reflection of those findings? Did you have a conversation with the Israeli ambassador about this? What was the message? Will you discuss this further on the European and international stage? Several civil society organisations are calling on our country to support a UN Commission of Inquiry by the Human Rights Council in Geneva. Do you like that proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u24	Madam President, Minister, the reason for my questions is the escalation we have seen in recent weeks in the attacks on Gaza, which have caused a disproportionate number of civilian casualties on the Palestinian side. There were also many thousands of rocket attacks by Hamas on Israeli targets. It is clear that we need to focus on the structural causes of what has happened in recent weeks. In particular, an illegal occupation policy in the Palestinian territories, violations of human rights, violations of international law, has been condemned many times. We are in a context where we need to increase the pressure on Israel. The government agreement also stated that we must formulate counter-measures, preferably with as many other countries as possible, so that we can respect international law and human rights on the Israeli side. Otherwise, I fear that we will face a similar escalation in a considerable time. We must therefore take account of the structural causes. I therefore have two brief questions with which I would like to raise the Belgian position. Firstly, can you update the UN database of companies active in illegal Israeli settlements? It's necessary to update that list. Will Belgium be in favour of a quick update and update of the list? When and in what fora will our country deliver this message in the coming weeks? Secondly, on 27 May, the UN Human Rights Council set up a UN Committee of Inquiry into the situation in occupied Palestinian territory. That is important, because that committee of inquiry is explicitly investigating the causes of what is going on there. To what extent does Belgium welcome this Committee of Inquiry? It is important for our country to support the independent functioning of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u25	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this problem is characterised by the fact that most of the questions are based on a very one-sided approach to the problem. I do not believe that this will provide a basis for progress. Apparently one has a bad and a good one here, as in a second-class western, according to very simplistic lines. The new element of recent weeks is, of course, the formation of a noted coalition in Israel. Netanyahu is at least gone for a while, but that does not mean that there is another policy on the West Bank or Gaza. However, the participation of the Ra'am party of Mr Abbas, representing the Arab population in Israel, can bring about certain changes for the Arab population in Israel itself. Madam Minister, you have sent your congratulations to the new Prime Minister Bennett and Mr Lapid. What's your vision on this new government? Do you think it offers more opportunities than the Netanyahu Government to find solutions? We know the attitude Mr Bennett has taken in the past, but everyone knows that we sometimes have to swallow his old statements in broad coalitions. What expectations do you have in that regard? Furthermore, we have Mr Abbas's party, which offers certain guarantees to Arab voters, which means a change of policy if they are realised. However, there was a lot of criticism of the Palestinian Authority, Hamas and the Unified List. How do you assess this participation for internal peace in Israel? The Israeli ambassador, Mr Nahshon, made very sharp statements in La Libre Belgique. He thinks he's witnessing an outburst of anti-Semitic remarks. Those are sharp words for an ambassador. Did you talk to him about that? Did you have the opportunity to discuss that concern immediately? Are the rumours that Mrs Kitir, or perhaps other colleagues from the governments, is refusing to talk to him? What has the government already done about the announced entanglements in the field of differentiation policy that our country would implement? Does the government or yourself still intend to take the initiative in the coming weeks or months at the European stage or in consultation with similar European countries in order to take certain steps in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u26	A lot of questions were asked, so I suggest that we give the Minister some time to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u27	Madam President, thank you for the time we have had to respond as fully as possible. First of all, I will make a comment before answering your various questions about the expression of a "geopolitics with variable geometry" that I heard from one of the colleagues. Whether we are part of the opposition or the majority, I think there is something that we cannot do, namely, intentional trials about the policy that is being conducted. The policy that is being pursued has been the subject of a very clear agreement from Kern. These are decisions and discussions that we have had on several occasions. I'm this kern accord to the letter. It's lace, to the point! I sincerely do not think that working as hard as Belgium does in the European Union and in other international fora for lasting peace, this is called a policy of variable geometry! I register falsely in relation to this statement. I almost raised my finger for a personal fact, but since we were in the middle of a moment, I thought I'd wait to be able to answer and mention it in the debate. Indeed, many questions relate to the situation on the ground, which illustrates the importance of the case for Belgium, for the European Union, for the world as well. Indeed, when there are difficulties — and we have seen them — on the spot, it is clear that there are very serious repercussions for the people, be they Palestinian or Israeli. There are also implications for regional stability. There are repercussions too, unfortunately, but that is how it is, in Belgium but also in other capitals, some of them just thinking of having to import the conflict into our countries. Does that mean that we should not take care of it? Far from it! We have to take care of it. Besides, that's what I'm doing. I hope I can again, as I do every time I meet you, demonstrate it if not the update. As you know, Belgium has taken several initiatives within the European Union. Our country has advocated the European Union's active commitment to the cessation of hostilities and the resumption of the peace process. Belgium had proposed High Representative Borrell to hold an extraordinary EU Foreign Ministers' Council on 18 May, which also happened. The hostilities have now ceased. We welcomed this development, which the international community pursued with its efforts. We are now calling for stabilisation and a permanent cessation of hostilities between the parties. In this context, we welcome the constructive role played by Egypt. With a view to the Gymnic meeting, the EU's informal Council of Foreign Ministers, on 27 May, Belgium again demonstrated leadership and, with the support of other Member States, asked Mr Borrell to review the latest developments. The ambition is to make the EU play a greater role in re-launching the peace process, something we support. The EU can and should contribute to the resumption of the diplomatic process, in close consultation with international and regional partners. In this context, Belgium supports the role of the quartet and advocates close contacts with the actors in the region, such as Egypt and Jordan. For the time of crisis diplomacy has passed and that of a revival of a political horizon has therefore come. The developments of recent weeks in Jerusalem, Israel and the occupied Palestinian territories more than ever demonstrate the need to address the underlying causes of the conflict and to re-establish a credible two-State solution. How can we contribute to the relaunch of a political process? I took the initiative, at the Foreign Affairs Council on 18 May, to propose that the European Union carry out a review of our relations with the two parties to the conflict in order to push them on the path of dialogue. This assessment must clearly identify the incentives and dissuasive measures that we can put on the table for both sides, Israeli and Palestinian, in order to support the resumption of peace negotiations. Contacts with several partners, I note that this proposal receives support from some – not yet everywhere – and I therefore continue to work in this direction. As you know, the government agreement provides that we will take "new steps towards a policy of bilateral and multilateral differentiation towards Israeli settlements". I am committed to further implementing differentiation under European and international law, already in my policy statement and in my policy note presented to the House in November 2020. Following a discussion in Kern on 19 May, an intercabinets working group met on 26 May to take stock of the situation. The FPS Foreign Affairs then initiated an exercise to review the implementation of this policy of differentiation at the federal government level. Our posts have been instructed to learn about the implementation of the policy of differentiation in certain like-minded countries. These exercises are currently under way. With regard to the resolution proposed by France in the UN Security Council in mid-May, it goes without saying that Belgium supports any initiative for a ceasefire. Belgium has not been a member of the UN Security Council since 1 January, but has expressed its full support for this initiative in particular at EU level. This resolution was not finally put to the vote because a ceasefire had been achieved. At the Human Rights Council, Belgium supported the organisation of the special session on 27 May, where a resolution setting up a committee of inquiry was adopted. Belgium is not currently a member of the Human Rights Council, but will support the appropriate funding of this Committee of Inquiry within the framework of the United Nations Budget Committee. Our country will respect the independence of the Committee of Inquiry and our Permanent Representation in Geneva will closely monitor its work. Belgium has no objection in principle to updating the United Nations database on companies operating in Israeli settlements. However, as far as we know, this update of the database is not on the agenda and there are currently no specific requests to that effect from members of the Human Rights Council. Indeed, Resolution 3136 of 2016 did not provide for an update. At present there is no mechanism for this and there is no financial or human resources for this either. This could mean that the initiative in the Human Rights Council would be with the Palestinians. The new coalition that is taking place in Israel brings together parties that cover the entire political spectrum, from left to right, which is always a challenge, there as elsewhere. The Israeli government coalition is also historic because, for the first time, an Arab-Israeli party supports the majority. We hope that the new government will live up to the economic and social ambitions expressed by Prime Minister Bennett at the Knesset on Sunday. The objective of increasing the inclusion of the Arab-Israeli minority through investment in various policy areas can only be welcomed. During the presentation of the new Israeli government and the main thrusts of its policy, little mention was made of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. In any event, our country calls for the avoidance of unilateral actions that undermine the two-State solution. The peace process must be reinvigorated. The latest war between Israel and Hamas has once again demonstrated that the status quo is no option for anyone. In all cases, Belgium will be calling for a sustained and constructive dialogue on both the peace process and a bilateral relationship. For the time being, the internal political developments in Israel and the situation on the ground have not allowed contact with my Israeli counterpart to materialize. Now that the new government has been invested by the Knesset, I will resume contact with my counterpart as soon as possible. With regard to the recognition of Palestine, a just and lasting solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict will require the resumption of credible negotiations with a view to achieving a two-State solution, with the State of Israel and an independent, sovereign, democratic and viable State of Palestine, which coexist in peace and security. In principle, it is clear that the recognition of a State of Palestine is the corollary to our support for the two-State solution. The question, therefore, is not about the principle of recognition but about the most appropriate time to do so and the configuration to be preferred in order to make this historic gesture. It is useless and counterproductive for Belgium to recognise Palestine if our country is not accompanied by a significant number of European partners. No unilateral recognition, which would in fact have no impact on the PPMO, but recognition in good time, with a significant number of European partners. That is what is provided for in the government agreement. For the time being, we note that the issue is not on the agenda. The two-state solution also requires support for a future Palestinian state based on respect for the rule of law and human rights and promoting an inclusive society with a government with full democratic legitimacy. The solution to the political and democratic crisis resulting from the actual separation between Gaza and the West Bank and the absence of elections since 2006 requires the following matters: the return of the Palestinian Authority to Gaza, the holding of free democratic elections and an intra-Palestinian reconciliation. That is why we strongly urged the parties to allow the elections to take place throughout the occupied Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem, as expressly provided for in the Oslo Agreement. I regret, firstly, that the elections were cancelled on the initiative of President Abbas who called for the lack of guarantee for the organisation of the elections in East Jerusalem. It is up to us to continue to plead with the Palestinian Authority for the strengthening of its democratic legitimacy, which I will indeed do. Several of you have come back to the events of Sheikh Jarrah. In this context, we have repeatedly condemned the settlement policy and its related measures of demolition, confiscation of infrastructure and evictions in East Jerusalem or the West Bank. These measures are illegal under international law and seriously undermine the possibility of a two-State solution with Jerusalem as the future capital of the two States. These measures also affect the human rights of the civilian population. This position of Belgium is fully in line with that of the European Union in this respect. I have had the opportunity to discuss this with my counterparts at recent meetings of the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union. Belgium also reiterated its positions at the multilateral level, particularly in New York, in a statement on the sidelines of a meeting of the Security Council on 22 April. Threats of deportation of Palestinian families to East Jerusalem in the Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood and other neighbourhoods, as well as the tensions and violence they have generated, have again demonstrated the sensitivity of this issue. These threats of expulsion obviously fuel the intense tensions in Jerusalem. It is recalled that the march to the flag, the monthly march of Israeli nationalists in Palestinian neighbourhoods, in which they celebrated the capture of East Jerusalem in 1967, held on 10 May, had participated in the harmful climate in Jerusalem. As seen last month, violent incidents in Jerusalem have a high potential for spread in Israel, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. It is therefore with some concern that I was aware last week of the organisation of a new flag march that will take place this day. Our country calls on stakeholders to refrain from incitement to violence and provocation. As you mentioned, on 5 February 2021, the International Criminal Court decided that its territorial competence extends to the territories occupied by Israel since 1967, namely Gaza and the West Bank, including East Jerusalem. Since then, the prosecutor announced on 3 March that he would investigate the situation in Palestine. That investigation will focus on the crimes allegedly committed since 13 June 2014 by both members of the Israeli armed forces and the Israeli authorities, as well as members of Hamas and armed Palestinian groups. I would also like to recall that, following this declaration and certain international declarations, Belgium, still the President of Benelux, decided to organise, on its initiative, a meeting where the International Criminal Court and its representative were invited to come and explain its work to the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee as a sign of support. You are also asking me about the Human Rights Watch report that I have heard of. It is difficult to determine how the International Criminal Court would assess the situation in Palestine with regard to the apartheid test. You will note that the International Criminal Court has not yet ruled on these elements in the context of its jurisprudence. It is not for Belgium or the European Union to decide on this qualification, which is in the hands of the International Criminal Court. However, regardless of this qualification, Belgium and the European Union intend to continue their commitment to respect international law, human rights and international humanitarian law. That is why Belgium sponsored the holding of a special session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva on 27 May. Our commitment to human rights also manifests itself on the ground. Our diplomats in Jerusalem bear witness, through their presence with families threatened with expulsion in Sheikh Jarrah, to our grave concern at the ongoing events in Jerusalem. Finally, I would like to add a final word on the risks of import of tensions in Belgium. Oh, my God! There are many things to say but I will limit myself to this. In today's globalized world, what is happening in other parts of the world can be felt more strongly in our own country than in the past. Our citizens have the right to express their opinion, to meet, to go down the street. Of course, I am not talking about covid measures which, despite everything, also have their place. But this must always be done within the framework of the rule of law and respect for public order. Freedom of expression is a freedom guaranteed by the Constitution of which we are proud. We are also defending this freedom of expression. However, it is a right that stops with hate speech and calls for violence. This is the red line of our democracy and our rule of law. And that is a line that we will continue to follow. As far as the ambassador's statement on anti-Semitism in Belgium is concerned, my cabinet has, of course, contacted him. It is not the first time that the ambassador has made such a statement. We have said that we do not agree at all with that statement. In our view, that is not the job of a bilateral ambassador.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u28	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. Ladies and gentlemen, you certainly want to replicate, but the services of the Chamber have asked me to respect the timing. We must clear the Chamber for the next committee meeting. I propose that we keep the replies for the next time the Minister comes to the committee. In the meantime, you can analyze the comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u29	I am sorry, but I find it difficult to imagine what the next sitting will be, which will begin with replies, to which may be added new questions on the situation in the light of developments. I hear and understand that it is necessary to free the room, but to postpone the lines in this way does not seem to me to be the right way to function, as this will create confusion due to the integration of new issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u30	We have ten minutes before the replies. There are 10 or 11 speakers, so everyone has to be very brief. Everyone gets one minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u31	Madam President, I will do it very quickly, trying to pick up my reply by saying this: on the reports of Human Rights Watch and B'Tselem, Belgium does not stand, and I hear the argument. The recognition of the State of Palestine is not on the agenda. Finally, on the update of the data bank on companies that would be complicit in the settlement process, we are not seeing anything new either. On the other hand, the principles that are recalled are always the right ones, but I have the impression that we are in a form of inability to turn these positions of principle into political measures and, therefore, to get out of the declaratory. I'm a little worried about that. I think our concern must be to always be on the right side of history. Human rights must be defended everywhere and all the time. In this respect, the positions taken by other political groups are challenging. Systematic human rights violations can no longer be ignored. As for the notion or idea of a conflict that would be imported: when we speak of famine or the Amazon that burns, we do not import famine, we do not import forest fires, we are simply solidarity and we indignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u32	Madam Chair, I will stick to the minute out of respect for House staff and colleagues. Minister, I am pleased to see that you have completed your work. There is no policy with variable geometry. Some colleagues may need to talk more to their ministers or to their deputy prime minister in the government to better understand the current Belgian policy in this area. You have always had, here and in plenary, a constant discourse on the conflict: the diplomacy of crisis during the conflict, the call heard for the cessation of hostilities and now, a bilateral and multilateral approach to moving towards the revival of the peace process – far from the ambitions of some to take the risk of importing here a conflict that was born there. You are right, the role of the Quartet and that of Jordan and Egypt are crucial for this revival of the peace process. I hear that evaluations of differentiation policy are under way, which I am pleased to hear. I also hear your call for more democracy from the Palestinian high level. I believe that this will be necessary for a peaceful resolution of the conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u33	Madam Secretary, you are constantly talking about the peace process. However, the peace process is dead because Israel continues to violate and colonise international law. In the past, the new Prime Minister Bennett has already expressed his pride in killing Palestinians. It does not look good for the peace process, especially if we continue to adopt the same attitude towards the status quo. Like your predecessors and all the other EU Member States and NATO members, you are constantly paying lip service to the two-state solution. You also express rhetorical condemnations of colonisation, but in the meantime the government still refuses even to recognise a Palestinian state, let alone to take any concrete and effective action against the increasing illegal colonisation and the de facto annexation of Palestinian territory. The mere difference between your words and your actions says more than I have to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u34	Madam President, I think there is a misunderstanding when I hear my colleague De Maegd and the Deputy Prime Minister. When I spoke of "variable geometry", I took up the words of my predecessor who spoke of variable geometry in our policy, even though there is an abstention on a text which would have proved the absence of variable geometry. That's not what I was aiming at. It is Belgium that invites DCI to the United Nations and asks for reparations when Belgian and European projects are destroyed. I therefore know how fundamental Belgium plays a role. I apologize if in my speech I was able to accuse the government of variable geometry. That said, collectively and at European level, we must ask ourselves why a ban on Crimean products is easy to put in place and why it is more complicated for others. But it's a collective issue. Minister, I had no intention of pointing a finger at you at all, far from it. I am well aware of your work and your commitment in this regard. I want to make that clear. Finally, I think we should have a debate on the import of the conflict with Secretary of State Schlitz and yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u35	I will, of course, analyse your answer in detail. It was very extensive, thank you for that. The final subject of my question was indeed about the import of the conflict to Belgium. I would ask you to remain vigilant about this in consultation with the Minister for the Interior. The last thing we want is for the conflict to spread to our parts. I would like to continue to warn against this, even though some people are questioning it here in committee. It seems clear to me that this is indeed happening in Brussels and other Belgian cities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u36	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your reply. Belgium attaches great importance to respect for human rights in international law and rightly has the habit of responding very strongly to human rights violations. In this conflict we refer to the EU, but it is very difficult to reach unanimity or agreement at Union level. The seriousness of the situation was shown by the questions. Human rights organisations indicate that there is, among other things, apartheid, crimes against humanity and illegal annexations. The list is long and continues to grow. It is therefore important to consider what Belgium can do, including in the European context. Together with colleagues from the PS, we have tabled a motion for a resolution which contains a list of measures that can be taken in this area. We welcome the support for the Committee of Inquiry set up by the UN and look forward to the measures on differentiation policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic513x.u37	Madam Secretary, your diplomatic (...) within the coalition on this matter many times. You have tried to avoid the one-sidedness... entirely in line with the resolution that we had before (...) That is the correct line. As far as importing the conflict is concerned, the statements made by the Israeli ambassador were indeed remarkable. However, I hope you do not underestimate the concern about the rise in anti-Semitism, which is justified. I think that everyone bears a responsibility for the import of these contradictions, if one does not pay attention to polarizing language and one-sidedness in this matter, because that is perhaps translated by certain groups as a free-conducting means of importing the conflict.
