ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u1	Good morning, everyone. We are again meeting for a topical debate on covid-19. Nonante-four questions were addressed to Minister Vandenbroucke, who tells me that he can stay until about 5:45 p.m. This gives us time to conduct our debate according to the tried and tested formula. I draw the attention of Members to the fact that, in addition to their questions, other Members have tabled them, even if they are not part of our committee. It is therefore appropriate to warn them at the appropriate time, so that their question is then considered as having been asked. I would also like to remind you that you can refer to the text of your question by specifying the number, if you wish it to be reproduced in the transcript. The N-VA Group will have the floor for 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u2	I would like to address a number of issues specifically and ask a number of additional questions. How is the British version of the coronavirus monitored? How many checks have already been carried out? How many of these controls were positive for the new variant? Some kind of pilot project has been set up. Of course, we need as much information as possible as soon as possible. What's the status of the wastewater screening project? This could help to quickly detect new clusters. This is already being applied in several countries. It would also be an early warning and could be an indication for the positive tests in which areas new clusters occur. How many returners from red zones are tested? I have also tabled this question. Are the returners' tests even linked to the PLFs? Some returners let you know that their code is not being used. Do you have a visual on that? Before Christmas, you promised that we would receive the advice on the non-medical contact professions. Where can we find that data? I didn't find them right away. Recently, we heard from the press that there would have been a cyber attack on several clinical labs. What was the problem there? Have all precautions been taken to properly protect the data? Any sensitive patient records leaked? I'm glad you've been pleading for more tests lately. The positivity ratio should evolve to 5 %. In most provinces, that seems to be working. A number of provinces have to do something about this. In what way do you want to further stimulate this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I just have a brief question about the nurse's commitment. I understand that the organisation of vaccination centres is primarily the responsibility of the Länder. But last Friday 8 January 2021 we also discussed it in the strategic team, and they referred to retired healthcare professionals who spontaneously volunteered and wanted to be involved. That's why I wanted to go over the federal aspects with you about the nurses for the vaccination centers. Do you lead this in good jobs from the Federal Task Force? What are the exact conditions to start in the vaccination centres? Is it just about nurses? What other professions can benefit from this, under what modalities? How is it going to be dealt with in concrete terms? Is there a list of nurses today who volunteered and can be used for this purpose? Were those lists transferred to the local authorities? Could you clarify that a little bit? Has it been fully clarified at the level of the health care providers themselves under which modalities they can enter into a contract to carry out vaccinations? Is everything okay with the reward?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I would like to go into more detail about the European proportionality of the distribution of vaccines. In September 2020 it was announced that our country would purchase 5 million European Pfizer vaccines from the total purchase of 200 million doses. The contract also had an additional option of 100 million additional vaccines. Now we note that Germany would receive 30 million of these 100 million extra vaccines. This is not proportional to the number of inhabitants of Germany. The European Commission spokesperson has indicated that not every country has subscribed to this 100 million. What did our country do when the 100 million vaccine option was taken? Did you order 2.5 million extra vaccines or not? You also stated in the press on Sunday that 10 million Pfizer vaccines would come to our country. Today I read that it would still be 7.5 million. That brings the total to 12.5 million and not 15 million, as you have stated and as proportional our share would be. Can you explain that to me? Well, let's talk about the timeline. How come our country has not taken steps to ensure that more vaccines will come to our country more quickly? That is something Professor Ramaekers said: we did not take any steps, because we still had to practice. How come we had to practice? How come we could not start vaccination immediately and we did not advocate bringing more vaccines to our country? I have asked you several times about the contracts, but I would now like to see the order forms for the different vaccines. I was right to do so from the Committee on Public Participation. I would like to see it today, and not, as you have stated, at a later date when it suits you. Also, I would have liked to know what's going on with the shots. Last week, the task force indicated that there would be another problem if we were to vaccinate faster and then get enough syringes. Furthermore, I would have liked to know why the FAGG does not want to release how many vaccines have come from Moderna to our country. I think that's special. That lack of transparency is a real difficulty. The fact is that we are dangling the European tail. There are European Member States that have already vaccinated 2% of people. What's your ambition? You know that time is an ally of the virus and that it is up to us, or rather to you with the federal government, to ensure that people are vaccinated quickly. I would also like to ask what criteria were used for selecting Medista nv and who made that decision. Finally, as far as the quick tests are concerned, what steps have you already taken for the self-tests? Were any violations reported of the sale of quick tests? When can the doctors expect their 20 euros for the GMD? That didn't come before December 20th. I note that it hasn't been deposited today either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u5	Mr. Chair, Minister, we would like to come back to a few points following last Friday's presentation of the operationalization of the vaccination campaign. I will allow my colleague to speak about non-Belgian nationals and the possibility of vaccinating persons legally residing on Belgian territory. Personally, I would like to come back to issues relating to vulnerable groups. The aim was to target those affected by the appropriate vaccination period among these groups. Our concern is about the approach to information, identification or second-dose switching. What support will we offer to people who are relatively not visible in our territory? As such, we wondered if you were planning to work in collaboration with the "Vulnerable Publics" working group recently set up by Minister Lalieux. The idea would of course be to call on all these social workers to help and accompany those responsible for the vaccination of these more vulnerable groups. We also had a question about access to open information and data. At the time of writing my question, an article was sent to us stating that the greatest possible transparency would be guaranteed in terms of data and the number of vaccinations, and that we would have very clear information. Are they open data? In addition, should any side effects be identified and all this information made available to the general public? In addition, trained doctors and nurses could be solicited during this vaccination period. Therefore, are legal provisions and valorisation provided for students, as was the case during the test period? Finally, the evolution of the surveys on vaccination intentions shows us that these intentions have increased dramatically in recent months and reflect a sincere and greater demand than expected, which we can welcome. This good news must be managed in order to avoid squalls and frustrations. Indeed, we have received information on the receipt of doses in nursing homes. For example, while 90 doses had been ordered, only 70 doses would have been provided on the grounds that a change had been made to six injections per vial rather than five and that in doing so, the number of doses provided corresponded to 120% of the number of residents. Minister, can you confirm this information so that we can reassure the people in charge of the orders?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u6	Mr. Moutquin, you have four minutes left to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u7	Mr President, apparently we can present our wishes until 15 January. I would therefore like to present my best wishes to you and to the Minister. Minister, as my colleague has said – and you know better than everyone else – this crisis has shown some shortcomings in our political system and in our society that forget some people. I have also asked the Secretary of State, Sammy Mahdi, a question about a particular audience, namely the undocumented people who do not have a legal residence permit. We know that we will only be able to get out of the health crisis that we are dealing with today by taking into account the entire population residing in our territory. Whether it is testing, tracing or vaccination, we cannot afford to exclude 10% of the Brussels population scientifically – you certainly know better than I do. It is estimated that there are 100,000 undocumented people in Brussels. I would like to recall that these people live in an important promiscuity, in particular because they occupy fairly small premises. They are, moreover, often more vulnerable due to certain pathologies related to their journey. Minister, is there a mechanism in place not to exclude populations without a residence permit from testing, tracing and vaccination? Will emergency medical assistance, which is accessible to undocumented people, be better explained and integrated into the vaccination system that will be put in place? It is known that only 10% of undocumented people seek urgent medical assistance while they are entitled to it. Is possession of a valid residence permit a condition for vaccination? Finally, in my question to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, I asked him whether there would be any consultation between you, but I do not think there should be any problem with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u8	Very briefly, I would like to return to the publication, a few days ago, of the decree on the delegation of nursing acts. We strongly insisted that the scope of the law be limited in time and in acts that could be delegated and that the law be activated only as a last resort. Mr. Minister, you were committed to consultation, which you did. At the end of this consultation, it appears that although most of the opinions of the Technical Commission of the Art Nurse have been followed, there is one that has not been followed, with regard to the administration of vaccines against covid-19 which you allow today the delegation to non-nurses. Why did you make this decision, which goes against the opinion? Is it a willingness on your part to prepare you to speed up vaccination, if necessary, and, if you do not have enough nurses, to make the choice of vaccination and to consider this ultimate measure? Secondly, I would like to address the issue of holiday returns. Unless I'm wrong, you said that about 40,000 people would have quarantined 160,000 returns, which is absolutely aberrant, scandalous and shocking. If these figures are correct, it is citizens' irresponsibility and a total lack of solidarity. What steps can be taken today? How can quarantine control measures be strengthened? How can we ensure that the testing and monitoring policy is stepped up, especially since today the threat of the covid variant is at our doorstep? Emmanuel André describes this threat as a very worrying one. It indicates that holiday returns are factors that can strongly influence the development of this covid variant and that it may have a faster spread. For Emmanuel André, two aspects must be accentuated in this fight: accelerating vaccination and curbing spread. We come to the heart of the problem. Do you have the opportunity to speed up vaccination if necessary? If so, now, with regard to the most vulnerable and caregivers? You mentioned last week the ability to be flexible and adapt to needs. Do we have that ability if we have to? What measures are you planning to curb the current spread of the covid variant? Are you considering new additional containment measures or other measures that are binding on citizens? Do you intend to limit movement outside the country or entry into the country by means of controls or access to the territory, and restrictions on travel within well-defined settings? Today, there is another problem: travel of less than 48 hours. Some make round trips, no doubt necessary professionally, which allow them to jump outside Belgium quickly, alongside many people, also risking being confronted with the covid, bringing it home and spreading it. These are the first questions I wanted to ask you. Undoubtedly, the main theme is the fear of these holiday returns and the fear of having to live a third vaca to which we cannot under any circumstances resolve, both for our citizens and for our caregivers who are exhausted today, we all know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u9	The members of the Flemish Interest are given the floor for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u10	Mr President, Minister, I have converted a number of questions into written questions, namely Nos. 55011791C, 55011796C and 55012103C. If you feel the irresistible urge to answer it today, of course, I will not stop you. One question, however, I should like to highlight explicitly, Question No 5, by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf The Royal Decree of 28 April 2017 provides, inter alia, that vaccinations against hepatitis B and tetanus are mandatory for the care staff, as well as the detection of tuberculosis with the tuberculin test. I would like to hear whether you will add the vaccination against COVID-19 to that list of mandatory vaccinations for the care staff. What arguments do you put forward for this? In the Netherlands, a vote will be taken to deny healthcare workers access to certain departments in a hospital without vaccination against COVID-19 in the future. Is this also a valid alternative for you to mandatory vaccination with the care staff? What arguments do you put forward for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u11	Mr President, I would like to turn two questions into written questions, namely Nos. 55012219C and 5501188C. Then I have two clusters of questions. One cluster is about the tests. Anyone returning to Belgium after a stay of at least 48 hours in a red zone abroad must now be required to be quarantined and tested on days 1 and 7. While the quarantine will soon be enforced by regional means, President Karine Moykens asks to be able to enforce this also for the tests. What plans are there to enforce these tests? Will a federal initiative be taken to do this? Can you agree with Mrs Moykens' reasoning that this is best achieved by a federal initiative? If there is no federal initiative, what is the reason for that? Epistat's figures and graphs show that in December the expected 100,000 tests per day were far from being carried out, while we have heard since the start of the corona crisis that by the end of 2020 up to 100,000 tests per day would be taken. However, it appears that at the end of December between 10,000 and 53.000 tests per day were taken. I have the following questions. What exactly is the maximum test capacity? Could it still be scaled up if we had an exponential increase here by, for example, a mutant? Why is the maximum test capacity not fully exploited? Will you discuss the wide-ranging testing of students at the IMC, among others? In the meantime, we have finished the fifth holiday in corona time. During the last Christmas vacation many people have been travelling. We saw all the masses of returning travellers packed together in the airports, which was certainly not coronaproof. I would also like to ask a few questions about this. According to Professor Molenberghs, 80,000 people filled out a Passenger Locator Form. Of those 80,000, only 11 % have been tested and 3.7 % of them have been infected. Why was only 11 % tested? Where's the limp? Are there any data on which types of travel cause most infections? I am thinking, for example, of the distinction between pleasure travel and business travel. They appear to be mainly returning travellers from Central and Eastern Europe. Which countries are the main sources of infection and how many of these 80,000 people come from red zones? That's a bit of a similar question. In Austria, 5 million simple corona tests are given to pupils and their parents as part of the re-opening of schools. It would be very simple self-tests. Do you know about such tests and, if so, what is their reliability? Do you see any benefit in introducing these tests into our test strategy? Do you therefore intend to buy such tests and thus adapt the test strategy on self-testing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u12	Mrs. Sneppe, would you like to finish? Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u13	Yeah, just a little bit longer. I have the following questions about the vaccination strategy, Minister. Will people who wish to travel to a country where vaccination certificates are requested be given priority over the identified priority groups? Will you possibly distinguish between a business trip and a pleasure trip? On the basis of what scientific or political insights will that decision be taken? Finally, I have a small question about releasing the data. I find it poignant that a citizen should take the initiative to collect and publish the figures on the vaccinations carried out, which could perfectly be done on the Sciensano website. This also shows that "a little bit of helping" does not apply to the weekends, so I would like to get some more information on that. As far as vaccination is concerned...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u14	Mrs. Sneppe, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u15	I'd like to finish my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u16	One last sentence, then.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u17	I hope that the vaccination barometer will be available in time and not too late, such as the coronabarometer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u18	Mrs Sneppe, you referred to written questions. However, this is a topical debate. It is not possible to convert the questions into written questions. You have taken the floor. All questions are considered asked. If, of course, you find the Minister's reply incomplete or if you do not like the answer or if the Minister does not answer it, I leave all those options in the middle, you will have to submit a new written question. You're free in there. However, it is not possible to convert a question into a written question in the context of a topical debate. That's the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u19	Mr President, may I ask that, for the questions I have asked for to be converted into written questions, the report refers to their written record?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u20	That's not a problem. It'll be noted. I have to go to another committee myself. Mrs Jiroflée will now take over the presidency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u21	Minister, I wish you first of all my best wishes for 2021 in your personal life, and of course in your daily work in the service of our citizens. In view of the time allotted, I turn into written questions some of my questions tabled: those on the return of the red zone, the variants and the setting up of the vaccination centres. I will mainly ask you about the impact and spread of the virus in schools and the role of pharmacists in the testing strategy and in the vaccination campaign. Less than a month ago, you told me that the impact of children should not be overlooked, that the situation should be looked at with greater vigilance and that perhaps more care should be taken with regard to the protective measures to be taken for children. However, you did not wish to go ahead with the forthcoming consultation committees. Since your response, several studies and expert statements confirm that there is probably a need to review the strategy at school level. Even yesterday, I heard a statement from a doctor in charge of a Parisian hospital: no problem in March at the level of children; then, there may be a problem; today, contamination among children is increasing and the number of children hospitalized is increasing. Already on 16 December, I relayed to your address the same type of information from a Belgian group of paediatricians. If your answer had reassured me somewhat, it should be noted that no additional protective measures have been taken outside the red code that we have been managing for several months, vague after wave. Studies are also under way. We are talking about results in June and it seems far too late. Could you then give me the precise points that were discussed at your last meetings on this issue of additional protections in basic schools, and the latest opinions of the experts on this subject? Can you also inform us of the results of the testing studies currently carried out in our secondary and basic schools? My second point concerns the role of official pharmacists. Last December, the law on rapid tests finally made it possible to integrate official pharmacists into the strategy, but not yet completely. The pharmacist network and the national territorial network of pharmacies are not yet integrated. We're hearing depressing evidence of land. Doctors contact pharmacists to order tests. Even yesterday, doctor Thomas Orban, president of the Belgian Société Scientifique de Médecine Générale, recalled: "If you vaccinate and your testing/tracing does not work, you will still be in trouble. For example, we still have a time problem between when people are symptomatic and when they contact their doctor. It's too long. You have to explain this to people again: as soon as there are symptoms, you have to do a test and quickly. Why, therefore, like France or other European countries, do we not yet ask pharmacists, even specifically for symptomatic people for less than five days? It is now known that these rapid tests work almost 100%, as well as PCRs, in these specific cases. Minister, why are pharmacists still not included in the list of distributors of these medical devices? What is being done to prepare access to the tracking platform for pharmacists to participate in testing? When exactly will pharmacists be included in the deployment of rapid tests? In this regard, in conclusion, in the context of vaccination and the next phases, when we receive vaccines that can be stored more easily, can you tell me what the preparation currently being implemented to integrate pharmacists into the vaccination campaign is? And, considering the legislation to delegate nursing acts in the context of this crisis, is it envisaged to take advantage of the expertise of pharmacists in vaccination centres? It seems essential to be able to count on all health professionals. It's obvious that officin pharmacists have the required experience.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u22	My question No. 55012141C is about long-term covid. Since many patients suffer from long-term covid symptoms, I would like to ask you if you will ensure that this disease is recognised. Will a separate RIZIV number be assigned to it? If yes, then that's good news. If not, can you tell me why not? Debates of the European Parliament 55012381C is about the antivaxers. There are more and more louder reactions from anti-vaxers and we lack a counter-reaction from the government. What actions have you planned to combat the anti-vaxers? I also hope, by saving time now and simply referring to question No. 55012384C on the genome sequence platform, which you will discuss in detail, Minister. Debates of the European Parliament 55012406C is about the conditions of the test strategy. There still appears to be a lot of capacity to test more. When will the conditions for getting a test be extended, as we still have sufficient capacity to do so and we should use the resources available to combat the virus in an efficient way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u23	Since last Friday, Sciensano's report has been slightly modified. After pressure has been carried out by journalists, among others, who got hold of the second report, it has become more open with more data. The comprehensive report did not contain any data on mobility, which could have been read in the report on which the journalists could have put their hands on. Why is that? When will Sciensano and you, Minister, opt for open dates? By this I mean all the data that scientists would like to get gross, such as the age of the persons tested, the exact place of death, the mortality rates per hospital, the source of infection and the number of people vaccinated on a vaccination barometer. We still don't know the latter either. Is it also possible to clarify and really be open about the deliveries of vaccines? One time it is said that less is being delivered, the other time more is being delivered. Can and do you want to publish the information on the content and the exact location of the deliveries? Before the holiday, I was also talking about the test strategy. Only 33% of the tests can be reduced to the indication, i.e. symptomatic, asymptomatic, high risk or return of travel due to insufficient use of electronic forms. The question then arises whether there is more testing today, or whether the third wave is in progress. In short, what exactly is going on? The result of 16 % of the tests still arrives only after 24 hours. How will you improve that? How much of the federal testing platform is now being used effectively? A lot has also been said about the respect of the quarantine obligation. How do you feel about the fact that the large loss of income is sometimes the reason why people do not comply with this obligation? Will you commit yourself to this and not just to repression? Finally, are we logistics ready for the vaccination campaign, now that the vaccines are delivered faster? Where are we on the number of vaccination centres to be built? Who will put the vaccines? What will be the burden on the general practitioners? It is stated that 4,000 full-time equivalents are required to administer all vaccines. Who's gonna do that? How will you ensure that the risk groups known to the general practitioners will receive their vaccine effectively in time? How will the flow of information be regulated?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u24	Mrs Merckx, I gave you a little more speaking time, as I had interrupted you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u25	My question, Mr President, is this: 55012336C is about the pilot project that was launched last weekend under the direction of Professor Goossens in Antwerp, following tested persons with different test results. Those people are contacted by a health inspector. They are asked to have a test carried out on day 10 and to remain in quarantine in the meantime. This is to delay the introduction here of the British variant of the virus. Because the British variant is much more contagious, there is a suspicion that people will continue to be contagious for a longer period, and that would affect the period of quarantine to be respected in the future. Is the health inspector asking for or imposing the sampling and longer quarantine under the pilot project? Is it considered to increase the period of quarantine to ten days in the light of the British variant?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u26	Madam President, Minister, I would like to make a number of points. The first concerns caregivers, and in particular the premium for caregivers that some of them have not yet received. I am referring to question No 55012342C. With regard to the evolution of the pandemic, I refer to my question No 55012343C on the importance of genome sequencing in the face of mutants. I also refer to my very specific questions about tracing, the number of isolations of positive people and their accompaniment. That is question No 55012345C. Minister, with regard to testing, I would like to come back to the situation of schools. Fortunately, in any case with current covid variants, children have little health risk. On the other hand, the evolution shows that it would be really fundamental to do a regular test with children and teachers. What about it? We have been talking about this for many weeks now. On the other hand, on testing, I think we are not testing enough; on this point, I hope we can agree. The question is to facilitate access to testing, so that it can be faster and ask for fewer steps; a rapid test would allow, if it is positive, a rapid quarantine of the person concerned. Finally, I would like to turn to the major aspect of vaccination and the vaccination strategy. First, I have an express request for transparency. All other countries are transparent about the precise orders, the number of vaccines that arrive and are available daily, and the number of vaccines that are administered daily. Today, we are among the very last, if not the last, in terms of the rate of vaccination. It is not a matter of running a race, but every day counts, since it is a real race against the clock that is engaged. I ask for full transparency and open data from you. You said, "I'll make a vaccine on the table." What I've seen for two weeks now is that it's anything but a vaccine on the table. Could we have the opinions of the vaccine allocation committee, a daily survey of the vaccines received and administered, the age of the vaccinated persons and their geographical distribution? This last criterion is important for collective immunity, but also for the pace of delivery of future vaccines during the year. These are theoretical projections, but we must have them at our disposal. The plan was presented Friday. What's the status of its operationalization? I saw that Flanders had announced that it could vaccinate everyone before the summer, so before the end of June. Is it also your line or do you maintain the one you indicated on Friday? In other words, do you intend to have more than 18 years of age vaccinated from Friday? It would also be high time to launch a call to mobilize as many vaccine providers as possible. In addition, vaccines are still blocked in freezers. I invite you once again to undertake vaccination of caregivers as well as people at risk outside nursing homes. I would also like to draw your attention to the most vulnerable groups in risk groups, such as patients with dialysis or cancer, who cannot be confined. Can I ask you again to involve the general practitioners in the task force? Finally, Moderna vaccine is approved from 16 years of age, based on clinical studies. What about it? Are we still in a vaccination strategy for citizens over 18 years of age or are we going to go down to 16 years, in any case for validated vaccines?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u27	Minister, like you, I think there is cause for concern when we see the numbers of the epidemic rising again. In any case, the experts warn you in this direction. We must be able to hear them – which was not the case in the first two waves. The question is how to prepare us for the Carnival holidays. Therefore, can you tell me if you have already developed a strategy on this subject? Is it reasonable to limit itself to not recommending travel abroad? On the other hand, Intersoc, the holiday organization of the Christian Mutuality, decided to cancel all classes of snow, as well as individual trips, until 3 April. I must also question you about the mutation of the British virus. We know – and thank you – that the government is funding a covid-19 genomic surveillance program from four of our universities. But what about the results? How does the exchange of information between universities, Sciensano and municipalities take place? Should not the mayors be automatically informed in case of detection of the variant on their territory so that they can take appropriate action? Today, the sick are called upon to respect even more scrupulously the quarantine. However, there is a lack of concrete guidance. Can you tell us what is the procedure to be followed in the head of the mayors and communes with regard to the control of this quarantine? Can you also tell us who is supposed to inform them? Is it the governor of their province? If so, is the latter clearly informed and by whom? I would also like to ask you about the clusters, since for the first time this Friday, January 8, Sciensano has published a data that many researchers have been asking for for a long time, namely the data on the monitoring of clusters and therefore the outbreaks of contamination. In particular, it emerges that during the week of 28 December to 3 January, 40% of the contamination – these figures must, of course, be considered with the utmost caution – would occur within companies. Minister, will this work to detect outbreaks of contamination be ongoing in the future with a view, in particular, to objecting to decisions and specifying the conditions under which certain activities may be resumed? Given the role of companies in contamination, will the controls on telework, which remain mandatory, be strengthened? Finally, like my colleagues, I would like to ask you about the issue of vaccines. My first question is about the personnel who should be in charge of vaccination. We know we're short of nurses and doctors. In these circumstances, how will we be able to ensure that people are vaccinated and monitored, since we have been promised that they will be monitored for 30 minutes after vaccination? I also hear that some experts, in particular from the University of Antwerp, estimate that 200 vaccination centres are too many because with such a number, all means, doses of vaccines, etc. would be scattered. I would like to hear from you about the comments made by these experts. Finally, I would like to mention two points made by my colleague, Mrs Fonck. Will all vaccination data be published on a permanent basis? How do you respond to the open letter sent to you on the vaccination of patients with dialysis, chronic and kidney transplanted?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u28	You have the floor, Minister. I hope you can shed some light.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u29	Madam President, I will try to respond synthetically to all the questions, there are many. I hope I'm making the right synthesis. With regard to the current situation, the evolution of the figures is indeed a cause for concern. We cannot say that we are at the beginning of a third wave, because the figures go in different directions. We see a sharp increase in the number of confirmed infections, but on the other hand we also see that the positivity ratio has decreased in the meantime compared to the situation during the Christmas holidays. There is an obvious explanation for this: we are testing many more people today than during the Christmas holidays and so we identify more infections, but in relation to the number of people we are testing, the rate of infection is less. If one looks back a little further, one can see that even with today's test figures, we are not testing more or even less than before Christmas holidays. That is a first important point. The increase in the number of infections is therefore clearly linked to the fact that we are testing more. We also need to test more. I want to make an appeal to the whole population. When people feel that they may have gained COOVID-19, they must be tested. That is extremely important. I also discuss this with my fellow health ministers. It's essential that people get tested. We also decided on Christmas holidays that residents returning from other countries should be quarantined unless they are not from a red zone, but that is extremely rare, or unless they were less than 48 hours away. They must therefore be quarantined and tested on day 1 and on day 7. Indeed, I have repeatedly said to the Commissioner Covid, the Task Force Testing and the members of the GEMS in recent days that we need to think about strategies to make stronger use of the testing capacity we have. At present, we have a surplus of test capacity. I am not going to anticipate that, because the task force testing and the GEMS are thinking about this. The first point is that the increase in the number of infections is a cause for concern and is linked to the fact that we are now testing more. However, it is useful and even necessary to test even more. The experts and scientists have been instructed to present proposals and ideas on this subject. I'm not expecting it tomorrow, but I think it's important. The appeal to my fellow ministers responsible for Health in the Regions and the Communities is that they are raising the awareness of the population in order to be tested more. The number of new recordings in hospitals is currently a more robust indicator. That number is falling, although slowly. I think that slow decline is a bit of a cause for concern. We would like that number to fall faster, because the number of hospital admissions due to COOVID-19 is still relatively high at the moment. This indicates a very real and robust way that the circulation of the virus is still large. The current situation is therefore not safe. On the one hand, thanks to vaccination, we have the prospect of liberation and, at the same time, we still have to be very strict on ourselves. Frankly, I hope that the prospect of freedom will contribute to the motivation that, in the coming period, we should still be very strict on ourselves and really follow the difficult and tedious measures. A particular cause for concern are mutants which we see in other countries and which cause very serious damage there, as in the United Kingdom and Ireland. A variant from the United Kingdom, named by the UK authorities VUI-202012/01, the first variant under investigation of December 2020, is an important one, because it contains 17 changes in the base pairs of the virus DNA and it is seen that this variant spreads extremely rapidly. The fact that there are mutations is not so special, but for some reason such mutations are much more dangerous. Of course, the mutations have already been discussed in the RAG and in the GEMS, by the people who advise us. What have we done? The policy towards incoming travellers, residents of our country returning from abroad, or non-residents arriving here, has been strengthened in successive steps. One does not enter our country since Christmas as a non-resident, unless one submits proof that one has tested negative. As a resident one enters the country, but one must go into quarantine and test on days 1 and 7, except for people who are less than 48 hours away. When it comes to people who have traveled for professional reasons, we work with a self assessment tool, in which people who have really behaved safely do not have to go into quarantine on the basis of self assessment. We have also increased our surveillance, as has already been said, let me repeat. If one really wants to know exactly which variants are circulating, one must sequence the genome. That's labour-intensive and expensive. Based on an objective of 4,300 genome analyses per month in the surveillance plan, one still has a cost of 100 euros per steel. This means that we already have 430,000 euros per month, if we want to analyse 10% of the samples genetically. There was actually not enough budget for this, but we have now allocated the necessary funds, up to EUR 5 million. The genome analyses are carried out by a consortium of different laboratories, in which the national reference centre Respiratory Diseases of the KULeuven plays an important role, together with the universities of Liège and Ghent. They currently scale their capacity from 0.5 % to at least 2 % and at least 1,000 genome sequencing per week. When one says'minimum 1,000' and one knows that we get about 12,000 positive cases a week today, one knows that we have the objective of sequencing 8% of positive samples. We also have the money and the organization for it. This brings us all the way to the UK, which has been given as a champion and as an example of intensive sequencing of the genome. Other labs from the federal platform and some labs from provinces where there is no federal platform lab are preparing to carry out similar analyses in the very short term. Genome analyses will also be carried out on samples of patients with specific clinical indications in order to detect early variants with significant clinical impact. Those indications are still recorded, but may include re-infections, unexpected outbreaks, return of a journey from defined areas, post-vaccination infections, infections in persons at increased risk of mutations and atypical PCR results. That way we know where and when variants appear. The problem is that genome analysis takes a lot of time. Which brings me to Herman Goossens' pilot experiment. We already know a few things, as has already been said in the press. We have seen six cases in Belgium with the UK variant: three persons from the same family with a link to the Netherlands, two persons with a link to the United Kingdom and one last person without a clear link. We have to hold wood, but fortunately it doesn't look like the variant is circulating strongly here. We haven't seen that in our observations. But maybe we're not observing things or not yet. This brings me to the pilot project that Herman Goossens is organising in Antwerp on my question and his suggestion. In fact, I have asked, together with Mrs Moykens of the interfederal task force Testing and Tracing and Frank Robben, to work out this in a systematic way for all the software aspects. After all, I think that if the pilot project is interesting, it should be extended to the other regions, and not just in Antwerp. There are two aspects to the pilot project. One of them makes me feel pretty sure it's okay. I believe that the experts, particularly the RAG, should think more about the other. What is certainly right is that by means of the PCR test it can already be established that a certain virus from a positive sample is very different and possibly an important and highly contagious variant. In this case, we can already say preventively, without genome sequencing, that double caution is needed. In Antwerp, a number of these cases had been identified. The health inspector immediately made a personal call to those concerned. That has the advantage of telling these people to double-watch. Of course, everyone must be quarantined in the event of an infection, but those involved can immediately be called upon to double-watch. I think that is a very good idea. The ball is played very briefly. The additional idea is that if there is a risk of a dangerous variant, there is additional testing. That aspect is still under discussion. It is also part of the Antwerp pilot project. I am still waiting for a formal opinion from the RAG as to whether it is appropriate or not. If that is an interesting pilot experiment, I am in favour of its roll-out, including to other regions in our country. After all, it is important to play hands on the ball very quickly, very practically, when a deviation is found. That doesn't rule out surveillance with genome analyses, but things are getting a little slower. In relation to the tests, I would like to talk about the question of control and obligation. Someone quoted figures from Professor Geert Molenberghs, who said that only 11 percent of the 80,000 travellers were tested. He said nothing wrong with that, but he based himself on the first available figures. In the meantime, they evolved strongly. During the period from 21 December to 1 January, returned travellers were more closely monitored for self-evaluation, but the quarantine was not yet generally mandatory and was subject to a test on day 7. We've changed that. As of January 2, a mandatory quarantine came for all entering, with a test on day 1 and day 7. From January 4 people who have been away for professional reasons can possibly escape the quarantine, provided the self assessment tool indicates that they had been really careful. Mrs. Depoorter, you're frowning the eyebrows. I'd do it in your place. This is all complicated, but it is also in order to reach an agreement in the Conciliation Committee. I have many people and opinions from many governments to take into account. There have been many long and difficult discussions about this. A number of people felt it was important that we should distinguish between travel for professional reasons and for non-professional reasons. For that we had to adapt the PLF. We make that distinction. Traveling for non-professional reasons simply means quarantine. In case of a journey for professional reasons, if one states with the self assessment tool oneself that one has behaved very carefully, one does not have to quarantine. We can check the distinction between professional and non-professional. You don't have to worry about that. We can check this on the basis of, among other things, the linking of databases with RSZ. That's not an issue. I come back to the heart of the matter: how many people have met the demand to be tested and quarantined. During the period from 28 December to 7 January, 64 percent of people with INSZ numbers were tested on this basis. Of these, 3.1 % tested positive. That's a bit different from one region to another. In Brussels, the test ratio is 61 %, with 3.5 % positive cases. In Flanders it is 67 % with 2.5 % positive and in Wallonia it is 65 % and 3.7 % positive. Additional analyses are now being carried out on the countries. So I can't give you that information right now. We already know which countries were important. Those were France, Spain, Poland, the Netherlands, Italy and Germany. There is a constant demand to close the borders. If I just follow my heart, I'd like to. Only for a small country like Belgium this is particularly complicated. We are very dependent on cross-border traffic and frontier workers and we also have a huge number of access routes to which we are connected abroad. Rather, we should focus on a policy of intercepting travellers in every possible way, including testing, quarantine measures, testing and sequencing of the genome when appropriate. The key to the whole story lies in the policy pursued by the Regions and Communities to support, monitor and control quarantine measures and isolation measures for infected people. That is entirely the competence of the Communities. In the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health and the Consultation Committee, of course, we are discussing this with each other. My explicit question to the colleagues of the Regions and the Communities is that they are really running the legislative, regulatory arsenal and the actual instruments for monitoring and monitoring quarantine. This is now possible in Flanders. The other regions are also working on this. That's crucial. We will not be safe in the coming months if the Regions and the Communities do not properly organise, support, supervise, monitor and, where necessary, monitor quarantine measures. Questions have also been asked about quick tests. This repeats previous debates, Madam President, in which I cannot report much news. I have said several times in committee that we do not think it is appropriate at the moment to develop self-tests as an element of our strategy. There is far too much uncertainty about that. Quick tests that someone else has taken are. We do not think it is yet the time to roll that out through the pharmacies, although this was advocated in the questions. Mrs Gijbels, you came back to the screening of the waste water. I have already replied to this on a number of occasions, so I am simply referring to what I have already said. That does not mean, however, that we should not try to make progress on all these aspects, but it is not that simple. There may be a misunderstanding about the rapid tests. It is already possible to register a quick test directly and have it carried out at reimbursement rates by general practitioners and by doctors in collections, such as schools and residential care centres. This scheme was implemented in 2020. Patients with only a positive serological test are not included in the confirmed case figures because a serological test investigates the presence of antibodies and does not indicate an acute infection. A positive serological test confirms a COVID-19 infection. In most cases it is older infections and those people are already cured. Therefore, those test results are not included in the reporting. The relevant procedure has not changed since 23 June 2020. Mrs Gijbels, Mrs Depoorter, Mrs Sneppe, the figures are what they are. Currently, up to 7,500 to 10,000 tests per day are analysed via the federal platform. That's basically only half the capacity. So one could really do more with the federal platform. That should be an incentive to test more, as well as to think about the test strategy. Mrs. Gijbels and Mrs. Sneppe, you asked questions about cyber attacks. An attack with malware took place on Sonic Healthcare Benelux's computer systems on December 17, gaining access to certain systems, shortly thereafter followed by a ransomware attack, which took place on December 27. The group Sonic Healthcare Belenux has eight branches, with headquarters in Antwerp and branches in Bruges, Ardooie, Ghent, Mouskroen, Lokeren, Genk and Brussels. The sites use the same system for laboratory analysis and its processing. The group was contacted. The group announced that all systems were disconnected on December 28th. The forensics are still in progress. To date, there is no indication of the detainment of personal data. The only goal seems to be financial gain. The group also reported to the Data Protection Authority on 18 December and 28 December. The police were informed, which in turn informed the Federal Computer Crime Unit. There have also been quite a few contacts with the federal prosecutor. The Group has proposed several improvement initiatives. On that basis, the restart will begin this week. Fortunately, the hacking has no impact on the fight against the coronavirus. That specific group has a capacity of a small 4,000 tests per day as a weekly average, with an average of 1,700 tests per day. The labs concerned have switched to a paper application procedure and have had tests carried out by other labs in the area. Labos could be new targets. Following a number of initial discussions with the sector, it will be examined how information and system security can be ensured and how incidents are best reported and addressed. Such agreements are already valid for hospitals. Now I come to the vaccination strategy, on which I first set out a number of main lines. What we are all going to experience constantly is that the vaccination strategy is constantly being readjusted. We are getting new reports on the possibility of deliveries, and this is how the strategy is constantly being adapted. These can also be important adjustments, for example in the amount of vaccines that are delivered and therefore need to be administered. In the coming months, it may also be a question of rethinking the target groups, for example if there are many more vaccines or vaccines of a particular type available. After all, we have hypotheses where, for example, AstraZeneca's vaccine is most effective, although we may not yet be sure. We also need to see if AstraZeneca is allowed to enter the market. Understanding the amount of vaccines, but also their exact qualities, will therefore evolve. That alone is a reason why the vaccination campaign will be constantly updated. I understand your demand for transparency and I urge the task force to have a system where everyone can follow what is happening very quickly. There is no such thing today or it is not yet operational. That is indeed a shortage, I admit that grif. And if it's there, it has to work well, of course. This is making our discussion difficult at the moment. A few precise data have been requested. First of all, what about Moderna? Here's what I can say. Yesterday, 8,000 doses of Moderna were delivered and 13,000 will be delivered next week. In the week of February 1st, 31,000 doses were promised and in the week of February 15th, 94,000. That's what I can tell you. I can't give you more transparency. That's just the data I got. This means that we can now start with a cautious roll-out of the Moderna vaccine. The intention of the Länder and the task force is to administer the Moderna vaccine in a few hospitals next week. Then there's a broader question about our share in Pfizer. The first question was what is our position there and how we negotiated. At the end of December, we took the position of wanting a global negotiation on what is to come. In this global negotiation we really want to have our full share. That is our share in the number of vaccines, but also to be served at the same time in terms of delivery rhythm, like the other Member States. That is very essential. That is also the express agreement with the European Commission. This leads to the iteration of negotiations. Hence the completed figures I have used. If Pfizer delivers 600 million doses, our share is 15 million. That's our right. Moreover, our right is to arrive at us as quickly as in France, Italy or Germany. Reference has been made to Germany. It would not be acceptable for Germany to receive more deliveries than other Member States, but that is not the case, Mrs Depooster. The result of a global negotiation is that we are guaranteed that we will get the same extra quantities in the same rhythm, in proportion to our population. The only thing that hasn't been knocked off is the last disc, especially the 100 million out of 600 million. That is why I have spoken about the final sum of EUR 7.5 million, which will be added to the 5 million. You'll have to project that against 500 million doses. Then there are another 100 million that have not yet been knocked off, in particular the last 100 out of 600 million. Of this, I say that our proportion is normally 2.5 million pro rata. From the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health, we asked the question of getting 15 million doses. Of these, 5 million have already been definitively knocked off; 7.5 million have been knocked off yesterday; 2.5 million must be sure if the European rules are to be correctly applied to the 100 million still to be discussed. That's 15 million together. These vaccines must also come in the same rhythm as for the other countries. I have no indication that it will be any different. But that is indeed essential. If we were to be deceived, we would not have been treated fairly. The same applies to the other vaccines. I am now making the calculation very simple for Pfizer, because that is how I have it in my head. But it also applies to Moderna and all others, unless we would indicate ourselves that we are not so interested. Assuming that additional options for Moderna are likely to come very late, that is something we are less interested in. There are also additional discs for Moderna, but they only come at the end, at the earliest in the fourth quarter. In fact, we would like our vaccination campaign to be over by then. So that interests us less, because speed is important in this. We're not gonna sign in on everything. For example, if there are additional discs from Moderna all the way to the end, we already have enough. It should be over by then. As far as Pfizer is concerned, however, we want our share. In order to be treated fairly with a view to the speed of delivery, we want to receive 4.4 million extra doses in the second quarter. We have been promised that. Mrs. Depoorter, before I forget, I want to bring in something that has nothing to do with it. I have noted here that the additional EUR 20 for the GMD will be paid before the end of January. Questions have also been asked about the syringes. I have to say that we really have a bottleneck here, which makes us look at a bottleneck. We certainly have enough shots and needles, that's not the problem. I can give you the details if you like, but at least we have enough. However, a vial of Pfizer can be removed from 6 doses for a short period of time instead of 5, but a 1 ml syringe is needed for this. That's a fairly recent fact. We've ordered some of those syringes, but we'll still be short at a certain point. At the moment we have enough 1 ml syringes, because we ordered 384,000 that were already delivered in December. We have further ordered 3.6 million that will arrive on 15 March. For the rest we have a lot of 2 ml syringes available and more will be delivered. Between the beginning of February and the middle of March, however, we may have a shortage of 1 ml syringes. We are now looking for additional availability of 1 ml syringes and that is a bottle neck. It does not prevent us from vaccinating, but it could prevent us from taking 6 doses out of a vial instead of 5. This has to do with the fact that, on the one hand, we do not find those 1 ml syringes easily and, on the other hand, that is an external provision that we have entered into a European contract which includes 1 ml syringes. We have already done this in December, but the common European purchase is clearly slowing down, and that is annoying. We are therefore looking at a delay in a common European purchase of 1 ml syringes. We have ordered 384.000 shots ourselves, which we already have, and 3.6 million to be delivered in mid-March, but in between we may have a bottleneck. We're trying to fix that. It's not like we're short of syringes; we've got enough 2 ml syringes, we've got enough needles, that's not the problem. The problem is that it has recently been said that 6 doses can be taken out with 1 ml syringes. On this last point, however, I would like to say that the last word has not yet been said. Can you always remove 6 doses with a 1 ml syringe? This is a complex discussion both at European level and between countries. I'll tell you as it is, Mrs Merckx. I know that it is an annoying discussion to say that the last word has not yet been said about whether this will always work, but it is being discussed. I hope you will understand that I am also fully informing you. Mrs. Fonck had a question about Moderna for young people from 16 years of age. Mrs. Fonck, I don't have an answer to that right now. I'll have to put the question to the task force. Questions were asked about who can administer the vaccine and who should be there. Essentially, we will of course call on nurses to support the vaccination. There will also be hotlines where people can sign up who want to volunteer. I am thinking, for example, of retired nurses or general practitioners, or other care staff. The law of 6 November has also been mentioned. Mr Rigot, you mentioned the law of 6 November 2020. We hope that we do not have to resort to the delegation provided for in this law. Every effort will be made to that end. However, in order not to have to act urgently if we were to face a third wave that would make vaccination by available nursing and medical forces impossible, we anticipated this by removing vaccination from the agreed list of acts excluded from that delegation. This list of acts has been negotiated. I recall that this law contains specific measures to deal with a crisis situation and that these measures are temporary and time-limited. The law itself will cease to be in force on 1 April. It may be extended, but not more than six months. I will not recall all the devices that this law contains, but it would allow, if necessary, to delegate the act of vaccination to non-nursing or unqualified nurses. Let's hope it won't be necessary. For the rest, it is obviously important that a doctor be present up to 30 minutes after the vaccine is given, with a view to reacting quickly and correctly to a serious allergic reaction (anaphylactic shock). We have data on anaphylactic shocks. The Centers for the Control and Prevention of American Diseases have identified 21 cases of anaphylactic shock out of a total of 1,893,000 injections of the vaccine, i.e. one in every 100,000 people. This is a study of cases of anaphylactic shock reported with Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. We do not have comparable data for Moderna, for example. A review of the cases taken from 7 January 2021 in the European database EudraVigilance reported 56 cases of anaphylaxis, three of which were duplicates. Six of these cases report anaphylactic shock itself. None of these cases have been reported in Belgium. This is a serious but fortunately very rare side effect. This is included in the summary of Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine characteristics. Both the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and the European Medicines Agency closely monitor the adverse reactions reported with this vaccine and will do the same in the future with the vaccines that will arrive on the market. Mrs Gijbels, the question of persons who have already been through COVID-19 was also raised last Friday 8 January 2021. After going through COVID-19, re-infection is rather rare. A recent study shows that the immune system remains on standby for up to eight months after infection, not only due to the presence of serological antibodies but also due to cellular immunity. For the blood donors study, 3,000 samples are collected every two weeks via the Red Cross/Croix-Rouge, namely 1,500 samples from Flanders and 1,500 samples from Wallonia and Brussels. From these 900 samples are selected for further antibody analysis. That's a representative sample. A study is also planned on humoral immunity by the Lifestyle and Chronic Diseases Department in collaboration with the services Viral Diseases and Immune Response. We will monitor the evolution of antibodies over a period of six months and examine the factors associated with seroconversion. The presence of antibodies will be detected in the saliva. Literature findings and a validation study carried out by Sciensano have shown that this is a valid alternative to assessing serological status in the general population, which includes populations, such as children and the elderly, for whom blood sampling is less likely. In this context, the decision for one vaccine dose or two vaccine doses has to do with the fact that most individuals have developed an adequate immune response following a COVID-19 infection. So they're, as it were, "primed." They have a first vaccine dose. A single dose of vaccine in these individuals could therefore be considered as a booster dose, with a very strong increase in immune response. A second dose of vaccine is more than likely not required in those individuals. This is currently being investigated in a planned vaccine study starting on 18 January 2021. However, until proven in clinical studies, a two-dose regimen is indicated for all vaccine recipients regardless of their history of a COVID-19 infection. The efficacy of the vaccine and its safety at one dose are still to be confirmed. Two doses are recommended by the EEA and Pfizer. We encourage clinical studies in this field. We are, of course, following the European Union on this point. To the question about the contracts, I can answer you that you know that the European Union finances part of the costs of purchasing the vaccines and that the European Union entered into contracts with the companies. The confidentiality of information contained in these contracts shall be binding on the Commission and on the Member States and their representatives. In doing so, everyone involved in these purchase files has also drawn up a confidentiality statement signed by the European Commission. If the contracts and all kinds of data are made public, there is a problem. We can't do that. This debate has already been held in plenary. As soon as it is possible, these documents may be made public, taking into account the exception set out in the Law of 11 April 1994 on public access to administrative information. Under that law, Article 6, § 1, 3°, which refers to interests in federal international relations, these contracts cannot now be delivered to you. The pharmaceutical companies will supply the vaccines directly to the vaccination centres or to hubs designated by each Member State. The FAGG has opted for one central hub because the entire territory can easily be operated from a single hub. This central hub has qualified staff and a spacious storage capacity. Orders from the vaccination centres will be centralised and deliveries will start from the central hub or from the firm, according to the instructions of the FAGG. These instructions will be part of the general vaccination strategy. In addition, the central hub will supply all necessary vaccination equipment to the vaccination centres, such as needles, syringes, sodium chloride and dry ice to store the vaccines at ultra low temperatures. The deliveries will be adapted to the orders of the vaccination centres according to their specific needs. As is well known, the transport and storage conditions of the Moderna vaccine are different from those of the Pfizer vaccine. The vaccine will be stored and transported at –20°C. Once thawed, it can be stored between 2 and 8°C for 30 days. The Belgian distributors designated by the State have an adequate fleet allowing active transport at –20°C. If it is necessary to transport vaccines from a large vaccination centre to other smaller vaccination points, such as rest homes, the FAGG will monitor the transport so that it is carried out by specialised and approved batches that guarantee the storage conditions during transport and perfect traceability. Once the vaccines have been delivered to the vaccination centres and smaller vaccination points, the federated entities will take over the implementation of the vaccination themselves. However, determining the transport budget - which was one of the questions - is quite difficult at the moment, because it is entirely dependent on the organisation and vaccination in the field and the strategy in this area still needs to be put to the fore. The storage and distribution of vaccines is covered by a contract between the State and the selected distributor, which runs until the end of March. A public tender will now be published in order to award the contract to a company that will provide the storage and distribution of the vaccines for a period of four years from April 2021. Mrs Sneppe, with regard to the vaccination of foreign nationals and travellers, the task force has not provided for the priority groups to be given priority to persons travelling to a country where they are required to submit vaccination certificates for business or private reasons. Mrs Depooster, the FAGG is fully aware of all reported side effects. A search in the EudraVigilance pharmacovigilance database, managed by the European Medicines Agency, shows 26 reports of hypotension following vaccination with Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine. None of these reports have occurred during clinical trials. There have been reports of hypotension in the context of stress-related vasovagal reactions or in the context of allergic reactions. The number of reports should be put in perspective compared to the number of vaccines administered. Pharmacovigilance data on the risk of hypotension are therefore reassuring to date. To be complete: should the number of adverse reactions be reported in a statistically disproportionate manner, a signal procedure will be initiated at the level of the EEA and further analysed. The scientific information on possible adverse reactions and the focus on patient follow-up can be found in the Summary of Product Characteristics of the approved vaccines, as well as in the Question and Answer prepared by the FAGG with information on the COVID-19 vaccines in general. In addition, since 7 January, the FAGG has published a weekly bulletin containing all reported suspected adverse reactions to COVID-19 vaccines that have occurred in Belgium, which can also be consulted on the website of the FAGG. During the survey on 18 December, although a very small sample of 42 surveyors, we found that almost all the general practitioners questioned had a positive attitude towards the vaccines and showed a great willingness to have themselves and their patients vaccinated. At that time, however, they felt that they still had insufficient information. In the meantime, some GP associations, such as Domus Medica, SSMG and CMG, have made efforts to inform general practitioners with webinars, newsletters and information on their website. They will continue to do so in the coming weeks. We expect to see a positive result in a second, more extensive survey in the second half of January 2021. It seems to me that Mrs Rohonyi referred to antivax and to the problem of communication and dialogue with citizens. This remains very important. It is one of the duties of the Vaccination Task Force to work on this and to organize for optimal communication. Ms. Rohonyi also asked about the vials. In this regard, there are no reported shortages to the AFMPS. Manufacturers provide the vials for vaccination. For freezers too, I can relieve any worries. The current actors designated to store Pfizer vaccines have adequate freezers and equipment. The Belgian distributor designated by the State has five reserve freezers for urgent needs. The required dry ice is provided by Pfizer at each delivery. The Belgian distributor designated by the State is also able to supply large quantities of dry ice if necessary. Moreover, for the time being, the distribution of Pfizer's vaccines is only to hospitals with 80°C freezer cabinets that do not need to be supplied with dry ice at all. We can therefore remove any concerns about the supply of dry ice. With regard to transparency, I shall first mention the following. The advice of the GEMS on non-medical contact professions is publicly available. Mrs Gijbels, I have a very long and unspeakable URL here, but if you google on "GEMS_OCC_contact professions_20201215," you will find it. We have recently made the opinions public. If you don't find it, my associate will deliver it to you. The fastest way to get to it is via the website info-coronavirus.be or via Sciensano.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u30	Mr Minister, I will forward the link to Mrs Gijbels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u31	That's very kind of you. People haven't always had the habit of doing that. I think it's important that that happens. One must be able to read it. More generally about transparency, daily the number of new hospital admissions, the number of hospitalised patients, the number of patients enrolled in ICU, the number of patients treated with invasive ventilation and ECMO, and the number of deaths, are reported by hospitals. You will also find a description on websites. Data on hospitalisations, age, distribution, comorbidity are available on the Sciensano-COVID-19 website, both on the Epistat Dashboard and in weekly reporting. The age and co-morbidity of hospitalised patients are also reported by hospitals in another surveillance system, but that registration is not required by law and creates additional burdens in hospitals. If too much data reporting is requested, there is a risk that data quality will decrease. Because registration is not mandatory, there is no data available for all hospitals, which means that some provinces are over- or under-represented. When raw data is split several times, there are too few data points to speak of a correct representation of reality. In this respect, surveillance is representative for the whole of Belgium, but there are limitations in the interpretation of the data. The European Directive 2019/1024 on open data and the re-use of public sector information applies to Sciensano, subject to the exceptions provided for in Article 1 (2) which includes some of the data processed by Sciensano. Sciensano makes as much information as possible regarding COVID-19 publicly available through its website. In addition to those data, which can be downloaded as open data for everyone, an application procedure is available for non-open data that Sciensano may not make directly accessible to the public, for example as a result of contractual obligations with the owners of the data or risks related to the rights and freedoms of persons to whom the data relate. I think we need to distinguish between information and data. The Sciensano report informs the population about the evolution of the epidemic. To this end, Sciensano collects the data it needs to fulfil its mission, which is to describe the state of health of the population and the consequences of diseases, especially epidemics, in order to enable decision-making in terms of prevention and control by the health authorities. Sciensano is forced to make certain data available in open data because, on the one hand, the data collected are health data and, as such, they are considered highly sensitive and subject to privacy laws. On the other hand, Sciensano is not the owner of all the data, including the results of the analyses contained in the reports, and is therefore bound to respect the conditions of access defined by the owners of the data. Mrs. Gijbels, you had several questions about the KCE report. It's a long, very detailed, rather technical answer. I'll send it to you informally and then we'll do it through a written question. As far as the incentive premium for care workers is concerned, Mrs Sneppe, I am not 100% sure that I understood correctly. It was clearly agreed that hospitals should pay the premium of EUR 985 gross depending on the working time during the reference period, on which contributions and taxes of course have to be paid, before 31 December. I don't know about hospitals that didn't do that. I don't know if that's what the question is about. I will answer Mrs. Taquin's question about the children. With regard to the contagiosity of young children, a number of data are published. First, on 12 November 2020, the RMG validated a report from the RAG: "SARS-CoV-2 transmissie van Kinderen in de lagere school". It contains an analysis of both Belgian data and a review of scientific literature – more than 40 scientific references. Secondly, the WHO Regional Office for Europe organized a high level briefing for Ministers of Education and Health on the subject. Thirdly, the RAG evaluates the epidemiological situation in Belgium every week and includes in its report figures by age groups and data on the situation in schools. With regard to the number of children with MISC (multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children), which was called before PIMS, a national register or study exists, coordinated by Professor Stéphane Moniotte. It is reported that there were approximately 30 cases of MISC between mid-October and early December, in correlation with the magnitude of the second wave and the more intense circulation in younger age groups. Paediatricians are aware of this syndrome and specific guidelines exist for management and treatment. Inflammation usually responds very well to the treatment initiated. In general, most patients do not know where they have been infected. This is true a fortiori for children with MISC, as it is a late presentation – after several weeks – of a previous infection. On the other hand, international literature shows that children are most often infected in their homes. Sciensano is involved as a collaborator in the study that has been initiated by the UCL (Pr Dimitri Van der Linden) and also works outside this study in close collaboration with the various researchers involved in this field. If there were significant intermediate results, they would be communicated and the RAG or another expert committee could provide advice if changes to the measures were required. A RAG opinion has just been published on wearing the mask at primary school. If there were new epidemiological or scientific data justifying a revision of this opinion, this would be done. In the preparation of the last consultation committee, the issue was raised because – I say this in memory, Mrs Taquin, I hope not to deceive – in the preparatory work of the experts it was said, among other things, that, perhaps at some point, it might be appropriate to ask the children to wear the mask, for example between the ages of 6 and 12. Not in the current context, but perhaps in a context with more viral circulation or if it turned out, for example, that more contagious variants, especially more contagious in children, would emerge. It was not an opinion in the sense: "Now it has to be decided that the children will wear a mask". It was something to be studied in a more hypothetical context of a worsening of the situation. I express myself in a very rough way. I'm sorry. The concertation committee, the political leaders of the Regions and the federal government have read all this, but nothing has been decided, because they were potential measures in a context that is not the current context, in a context of deterioration or in a context where it is believed that measures need to be tightened, become more cautious, etc. If epidemiological data on children of school age invite us to more stringent measures, we will of course act. I appreciate your insistence on this issue. The Consultation Committee did not take any further action. Nor was it the exact request of the experts. Their request is to be vigilant, to keep an eye on it and not to exclude the possibility that one day we will have to ask for it. I round up the numbers a little, hoping not to harm the most sophisticated texts of our experts, but I don't have them at home. Mr. Moutquin, Mrs. Rohonyi, Mrs. Leroy, you also asked me about the undocumented. As far as testing and tracing are concerned, illegal residents are entitled to urgent medical assistance. Coronavirus testing falls within the scope of the latter, which is managed by the State, in accordance with the Act of 2 April 1965 on the care of assistance provided by CPAS. In concrete terms, for persons whose tests have been analysed in laboratories dependent on hospitals, the invoice is sent immediately to the Auxiliary Fund for Sickness and Disability Insurance (CAAMI) via the MediPrima system, which deals with the medical expenses of non-insurable persons with a mutual fund. Those whose tests have been tested in recognized independent laboratories will receive the invoice and will be able to submit it to the CPAS, unless it is sent directly to the CPAS. For these fully reimbursed tests, no moderator ticket is provided. Similarly, no supplement may be charged by the laboratory. As far as vaccination is concerned, when the doctor certifies that it is urgent medical aid and that the benefit is cared for according to the INAMI nomenclature, the latter will be cared for by the State. Mrs. Sneppe, we're aware of the study on ivermectin. However, great care should be taken with regard to its positive results. The study consisted of six types of therapeutic partial studies in which people were treated therapeutically in different ways. The first four studies were on the therapeutic treatment of covid patients who were at different stages of the disease. Azithromycin was also administered to all patients in the groups. No placebo group was included in the study for comparison. Therefore, the attribution of the observations to an effect of ivermectin is not possible. In addition, the number of patients included in each arm was small. The last two studies concerned the use of ivermectin as a preventive treatment in healthcare, but the follow-up was only two weeks. As a result, no conclusions can be drawn on the substance here either. Literature research has also been carried out by a research group from Liverpool. That study also suggests a positive effect of ivermectin in severe and mildly ill patients and in chemoprevention. However, this literature review has not yet been peer reviewed. In addition, it is a compilation of small, very heterogeneous studies that have different endpoints and are sensitive to multiple biases. That's what the authors say. The task force dealing with the treatment of hospitalised covid patients shall review the available scientific literature on possible covid treatments on a monthly basis. Sometimes this is done earlier when certain crucial studies are published. With regard to ivermectin, the task force concluded in its latest review on 1 December that the first evidence from observational studies appears to indicate some possible positive effects on treatment. That advice and assessment are available on the website of Sciensano. However, the Committee will not recommend the medicinal product until more reliable data from randomised clinical trials are available. The FAGG is not aware of ongoing clinical studies in Belgium assessing ivermectin as no applications for authorisation have been submitted. Such treatment would complement the existing arsenal against COVID-19, together with preventive measures, including vaccines. No therapeutic intervention against COVID-19 will in itself be sufficient to control the epidemic. If Ivermectin were to be used alone, it would require such a massive increase in scale that it would represent an equal challenge to public health as the ongoing general vaccination campaign. I would like to comment on the question of the number of vaccination centres. Let me turn to the question of the number of centres. I listened on the radio to the experts from the University of Antwerp, and I sincerely believe that the experts from the Task Force – including logistics and transport experts – have examined the issue from different angles. They also studied the optimal number. Remember last week's presentation, especially the slide showing the difference between 100, 200 and 300 centers. The experts explained that, according to their analysis, the optimal number was 200 centres. The number posted this week by the Flemish Community is 120 and is included in the 200 mentioned above. Of course, I am not in a position to interfere in this debate with the experts should they call for other figures. The experts we invited included doctors, vaccinologists, epidemiologists, representatives of the specialized agencies of the Regions and the Communities, as well as logistics experts. All agreed on a proposal of 200 centres. I am confident of the qualities of the experts who gave this opinion. A characteristic aspect raised by the Antwerp experts I listened to on the radio is the issue of safety. It is in fact up to the task force to provide extremely precise instructions to the mayors and doctors on the front line who will be responsible for these centres. These instructions relate in particular to the safety and the presence of health care personnel and doctors. If all this is well organized, I see no problem with the establishment in Flanders of 120 centres, i.e. two centres per front-line area. This is a concept specific to Flanders. Of course, I repeat my mantra: the vaccination campaign will be reviewed and discussed on an ongoing basis. There is a little science just in time that applies here. There will be debate every day. That is why I prefer to suggest that you invite the task force again to discuss it again at all, because they are the only ones able to give you more precise answers to this kind of question. For the rest, I do not have to comment on the precise way to organise all this in the Regions, with the call to the mayors and front-line doctors. It is a task force that organizes synergy and cooperation is perfect. These questions are rather the input of the Regions and Communities. I prefer not to engage in this debate here. That is the Chair, an overview of the answers to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u32	Thank you, Minister. You have spoken for an hour and a quarter of an hour, and I think there has been a lot of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u33	Minister, many answers have indeed been given. I agree with you when you say that I will return to the waste water screening for the umpteenth time. At a previous committee meeting, you said that screening could be an interesting piste in case of a lower circulation level of the virus. Since we are about there, I think that waste water screening can now be started, especially because there is a risk of a more contagious variant. In this way, if the virus were to spread faster, we would be able to detect clusters in time, I think. For the same reason, the slightly lower spread level of the virus, it seems to me worth considering whether the coronabarometer can be introduced. For the study on non-medical contact professions, you have given me a complex URL. That may also be part of the problem: there is an idea of a lack of transparency. After all, it appears that it is difficult to get that data, as anyone looking for it must know his way around to obtain the information. I wonder whether this could possibly be organised more centrally, so that all these documents can be searched from a central point of view. I am very curious about the additional data you will provide on the surveillance study, the report made by the KCE on the hospitals and the response to the crisis. As soon as I read those answers, I might come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u34	Minister, lack of foresight was one of the killers of the first wave. What I hear from you today confirms my suspicion and fear of the covid vaccines. You indicate that you did not consider the lack of proportionality in terms of time and quantity of vaccines until the end of December. In November, you did not take any steps, although we knew that the Pfizer vaccine produced good results and even though the rest of Europe advocated more vaccines at that time. You have not taken any steps to obtain more than 10,000 symbolic vaccines, while the neighbouring countries have received them. That is negligent and makes us three weeks behind in the vaccination campaign. Minister, you yourself indicated that at the end of December 2020 you insisted on proportionality. Other countries already knew by the end of December 2020 that they would receive much more than 10,000 vaccines. That confirms the fear I had.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u35	That's a misunderstanding. We actually receive the same amounts in the same rhythm. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u36	However, Minister, you did not get them. You had 10,000 vaccines by the end of December 2020. You will receive 88,000 vaccines in January 2021, while our neighbouring countries will receive more. How else do you explain that Denmark, with 5,8 million inhabitants, has already placed 115,000 vaccines? How do you explain that the Netherlands has received 165,000 vaccines per week since the end of December 2020? That's not proportional in time. I have repeatedly noticed that. You have rejected my words over and over again. But it doesn't add up. You have been led by the other European countries. You haven't been forward-looking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u37	That's not right. I would like to say the following about the figures. Firstly, we have fewer inhabitants than the Netherlands. You'll have to make that comparison first.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u38	Minister, the Netherlands has 17 million inhabitants and we have 11 million inhabitants. I can apply the rule of three.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u39	I do advise you to check that out. It is the rule of three according to the number of inhabitants. You're not distributed proportionally. I've been telling you that for weeks, but you've been denying it over and over again. In November, when the rest of the world asked for Pfizer vaccines, you also took no steps to get more vaccines to our country. You are lagging behind in those vaccines, and you will pay for them in additional patients, in extra lives and in our economy that will open later. A second fact I want to come back to today is the syringe. You say here that we have enough syringes and that only the 1 ml syringe is the problem. It's like that 1 ml syringe I warned you about in November and for which I notified Mrs De Block last summer. Let me give you an answer in the facts. Those six doses have nothing to do with the 1 ml syringe, but with the needle on the syringe. The finer the needle.......................................................................................................................................................... That has nothing to do with the syringe. You can also place a 21G on a 1 ml syringe. You're sitting here preaching facts that aren't right. You didn't do what's right. You didn't buy enough syringes. You're short. Your services even had to get down on their knees to get those 8 million syringes here and now you don't have enough for the increased vaccination strategy. Explain to me, Minister, how you will titrate 0.3 ml with a 2 ml syringe. You should ask any doctor, that is impossible, because the gradation is 0.25 ml and not 0.3 ml. That's a bottleneck and I'm glad you finally admitted it, because I've been hammering on this for months. The Netherlands bought 25 million this summer. We support it and we have created a problem there. Let's hope we can work it out. What you don't say when you talk about your strategy is the worst case scenario. You're talking about the best-case scenario, August. That's what you've been telling me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u40	I didn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u41	You have told us that we will begin to vaccinate in the summer. But can I tell you what your worst case scenario is and what the people at home don't know? That's January 2022. You should take into account that if you are supplied with only half of the vaccines, you will not end up in January 2022. As regards the communication that took place last week under very great press importance, it should have been said that the government's ambition was between August and January 2022. Then you would have communicated fairly and not run an announcement policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u42	I agree that this is necessary, Mrs Depoorter, but I have spoken to the press this afternoon and this morning, and I constantly say that there may be windfalls and setbacks. I tell you all the time I don't get stuck on data. There are a number of things that we can be reasonably sure of. They allow us to conclude that the worst case scenario is becoming a rather unlikely scenario. Everything is documented in what was specified here. I keep saying, in every interview, I don't promise a date. I get questions all the time, and you probably do, too. I'm being careful. There could be windfalls and there could be setbacks. We can have bottlenecks and difficulties and we must avoid a third wave. We all have to do that. I'm doing the same thing. If we can say that, in a normal scenario, on the basis of the data we had, after the summer, we can think about it, then that gives us hope. You'll have to admit that, too. If we can say, especially to young people, that we may already be working before the summer, including the youth group, if we can at least do our best with all of us, that will give us a view. Visibility is needed to sustain it. That's what it's about, of course. You will agree. Everyone's role. You must underline the critical points, but I must express both hope and caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u43	Thank you for the clarification. Last week, we heard from the task force that a list of side effects would appear on the website of the FAGG weekly or even faster, so that those who were vaccinated and general practitioners can report the side effects. I belong to you, and also to my surroundings, a greater willingness to be vaccinated than six months ago. At the same time, I am also concerned about the refusals and the doubters. Are you well assisted by communication experts? Yesterday, in De Morgen, it was said that in America, a 56-year-old gynecologist died two weeks after his vaccine. Pfizer does not see any connection between the vaccine and the death. Half a day later, several messages appear on social media that claim it has something to do with the other. Of course, people who have been vaccinated may break a leg or talk crazy, which has nothing to do with it. Is there any active communication about that? It is very good that we are communicating transparently about the side effects. Do your communication experts advise you to actively oppose those doubters? I don't know if that's a good idea either. When I read the objective report in the press and find out how half a day later that information is completely distorted in what the doubters and the non-believers want to believe, I worry about the group that continues to doubt. Do you actively develop a communication strategy or are you well assisted in doing so? Of course, it can happen that someday weird things will happen, all the more so when 70% of the world's population is vaccinated in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u44	Minister, first of all, thank you for your clear and detailed answers. You took the trouble to give us the important elements of the questions I asked you. In committee, we have this habit: some people see the glass half empty, others half full; some think we're moving too fast, others think we're not moving fast enough. Sometimes I like to imagine what the situation would be if the spectators were actors and vice versa. I am not convinced that it would be very different because, in the end, we are all faced with an unknown situation where we are trying at best, in a context we were not prepared for, to meet the needs of the fellow citizen. That's what's happening here. I have no doubt for a second that the government's intention is to speed up vaccination, to be flexible, to respond to the need to protect our citizens. Your presentation today shows this again. I think it is excellent news to highlight the prospect of vaccination. Obviously, if this is not acquired in practice, if the doses are not yet with us now, we will be able to have all the necessary doses for vaccination. This is not only a fact but excellent news. Obviously, measures are also being taken to ensure that we are able to have all the logistical tools, all the equipment needed to ensure this vaccination, as well as the places of vaccination and the personnel to do so. It's still a fact and good news. Of course, there are still pitfalls: the exhaustion of the citizens, the ras-le-bol. Sometimes this citizen does not engage in responsible behaviour, which is a danger to others, to society as a whole and to the entire strategy currently in place. With regard to the citizen, as my colleague, Mrs Creemers, said, we must once again inform, once again raise awareness, and we must also provide means which will ensure that, in the balance, the citizen will not doubt between his loyalty and solidarity with everyone or his choice to be individualistic because he needs to win his crust, because he has no other possibility, because he has no prospect or because he is sick of it too. This can happen. As far as the vaccine strategy is concerned, I believe that what has been highlighted is that it is important to trust Europe. Some call this Europe into question, but it demonstrates that it allows us to have vaccines in a global envelope. In the game of competition between each state, we may not have won and we may not even have taken the risk of playing. While some may prefer to go alone and tend to do so, they continue to be loyal to this Europe, solidarity with all and trust in the mechanism that is being put in place. I am, of course, optimistic, Mr.Minister, but I also expect you, on your part, to be attentive to this new wave which could come and which is in any case frightening today, with the variant covid. We must always stay on course with the need to have balanced measures, of course, but measures that give hope to all, especially the healthcare staff. A few minutes ago, I was still reading that 22% of health care professionals are planning to leave their profession at the end of the year. Usually, in this Sciensano poll, we're 10%. It is therefore a serious time for both health-care workers and citizens. Let us keep on course and give hope. Minister, you have our confidence. You're an actor. Today we are spectators. Today I would like to congratulate you, and the whole government, on everything you are doing, sometimes with things that are worse. But you are going and that is positive!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u45	I would like to thank you, Mr Minister, for your answers, but the problem is that I am asking you. 55011811C now for the third time see unrequited. I would like to ask you whether it is possible to reply to this question in the near future. I'd really appreciate that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I did receive a number of answers and I would like to make three more points. As far as the vaccination data are concerned, you say that we will be rolling out a system very soon. You can't be serious about that, even though it's already done by a diligent citizen. We need to look for our data from the citizens who propose it very nice and concrete, and the government says it will roll it out very soon. That the corona crisis itself was not predictable, I can still understand that. But that there would be vaccination and that there would be data about it, we knew that, didn't we? So that system should have been ready by now. As far as closing the borders is concerned, you say that this is complicated. Apparently it wasn't complicated during the first lockdown. The non-essential movements were then prohibited and the borders closed. To a question I asked in a previous committee, you replied that the closure of borders is a political choice. Then you should not come up now with the fact that closing borders is not easy. In addition, the experts are in favour of closing the borders. We believe that will also slow down the virus. The traffic of people is one of the main reasons why the figures are constantly rising. After each holiday we have already found that the figures will rise afterwards. This is the fifth vacation in a row. This is done by international traffic and so on. We should therefore have the political courage to decide whether to close the borders over political correctness. Then we can say that we are doing well and take the necessary measures. But you won't. Here too, political correctness gains from efficiency. As far as the syringes are concerned, you say that we have an EU contract and that this delay is increasing. However, you do not give the reason. I'd like to know that one.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u47	Mrs. Sneppe, may I say something right away? I cannot give you the details, but delays sometimes occur because companies react slowly. The delay is not necessarily on the part of the government. Businesses also react slowly sometimes, without getting a response. I have been told that this is also due to the delay in this specific European contract, which we hoped would help us with 1 ml syringes on a large scale. It is also on the side of the companies, which apparently do not come soon for the pins with a concrete offer. So it is not necessarily the government, in this case the European one, that is stalling. I can't give you the details. Not that they're secret, but I don't have them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u48	Minister, it was a sincere question, not a hint. If you say that there is a delay, I think we should also know where the delay is. A second point. You say 384,000 shots have been delivered. This means that less than 200,000 people can be vaccinated. In a well-running vaccination strategy, that's about a week or two, take three weeks. So within three weeks one would be out of shots.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u49	Mrs. Sneppe, this is about the 1 ml syringes. There is no shortage of 2 ml syringes. It is about the possibility of extracting six doses from the vials. There's the bottleneck. If one no longer has one, one cannot do so anymore, then one loses that margin. That is, of course, a very great loss of effectiveness in the campaign, which we did not know in advance, but which has now been made clear. Since January 8th this is a bit official. Here we come to a bottleneck: if we do not have the adapted material to remove those six doses, we must again limit ourselves to five doses. I don't think the campaign's going to stop, but it's a bottleneck, I got that right here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u50	Indeed, it would be very unfortunate that the campaign stops because the syringes are not there or because doses are lost because the right syringes are not there. That's the point I want to make. What I didn't quite understand on Friday was Professor Van Damme's statement about a flying start we're not taking. In fact, at the end one comes to the same conclusion: if one takes a flying start, one has to take back gas later. Indeed, you will have to take back gas if you do not have the right syringes, or else you will have to lose doses. It's one of two. We vaccinate slower than the rest of the world, not because you think we are more careful, but because we don't have enough syringes. Then be honest and communicate that way too. It is a pity, because in the Committee on Health several Members have already pointed out that this could be possible. So that's a bad report all over the line, but you already knew that. So nothing's changed, which is unfortunate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answer. As far as pharmacists are concerned, I apologize, but I was on another committee and I am not sure you answered my question. I missed the beginning of your speech. As far as schools are concerned, if epidemiological data prompt us to take tougher measures, such as wearing the mask at primary school, we do not exclude it. That's what you say today. What is the epidemiological level planned by experts to make stronger measures mandatory in schools? In my view, this would require planning, preparation, communication to teachers as well as to parents. Are a scenario and a method expected if these figures are reached? What stronger measures would be taken? The child must go to school, but in a secure manner. Of course, there is the wearing of the mask, but also the rapid and regular testing, the ventilation. Air quality is very important. There are innovative solutions, as well as other measures. You are telling me that scientific data are being collected, but there is an urgent need to invent the school differently from a health point of view and to help the federated entities in this direction. The impulse will come from you, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u52	Mr Minister, I am actually waiting for the answer to two questions. The patient association representing the long-term covid patients specifically asked if a RIZIV number would be created for this target group. If that were not to happen, people would like to know why. We have had a wide-ranging debate on these covid patients this morning, and it may be useful to give them an answer. I am also pleased to hear you say that more testing is needed, but a lot of people are colliding with the criteria used today to qualify for a test. A lot of people are asked by their GP today to wait for a test because they do not have certain symptoms. It will therefore be necessary to send a circular to the first line to ensure that the criteria are applied more broadly. That way we can test more people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u53	Mrs Farih, as far as long-term covid patients are concerned, I have already replied several times in committee and I have nothing to add. As far as the RIZIV-number is concerned, the question is not quite clear to me, but that will be up to me. I have not yet received an answer to that question either. My administration is doing its utmost to prepare all of this, but I didn't get a response from her. I'm afraid to improvise here either, because it's not really clear to me. I'll go after it, and I'll try to get you an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u54	Thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u55	Mr Minister, the question of vaccinations is whether we will also start a squirt saga after the mask tests. If I understand correctly, we need 15 million 1 ml syringes. However, only 4 million were ordered, and only by 15 March 2021. That's what you said. So that's going to slow down our vaccination campaign at least. I hear the Netherlands has ordered 25 million such syringes. There is also the fact that we can administer five or six doses. At the moment when every minute counts to avoid any infection, I hope that you will soon take measures to order the syringes or to produce them yourself why not to produce.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. After all, we all remember how long it took before the case of the masks finally came to fruition during the first wave. As far as Moderna is concerned, I understand you're going for about 146,000 doses. Is it intended to vaccinate about 70,000 people? After all, you chose not to make a later delivery. Do we then administer two doses to vaccinate 70,000 people?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u56	Mrs Merckx, we have ordered 2 million doses of the Moderna vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u57	So you will vaccinate 1 million people with the Moderna vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u58	I just gave the numbers for the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u59	There's the fact that you didn't order extra. Pierre Van Damme had stated that there might have to be a repeat vaccine a year later. You are already certain today that this will not be the case. On Friday, however, we were given the doubt of the opposite. With regard to the price and contracts of the European Union, you say that the European Union bears part of the costs. Is that perhaps the explanation why Mrs De Bleeker's table said €12 for a Pfizer vaccine and €15.5 for Moderna? On the transparency of Sciensano, you explained that Sciensano does not share data, because it is owned by someone else, for example Proximus or hospitals. That's not clear. It does not share data either, because the quality is not good or because privacy would not have been respected. Those are answers that don't work out. You can solve that perfectly via, for example, aggregated data. My question to which you did not reply is as follows. What is your attitude towards the current protectionism of Sciensano? The Commission has given an opinion on access to administrative documents in order to release them, for example the figures on mortality in hospitals. What is your position on the matter? I didn't hear that. About the quarantines, you hide behind...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u60	Mrs Merckx, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u61	Madam President, I am only finishing my sentence. Minister, you are hiding behind the powers of the regions. The income guarantee under quarantine is determined here in the Federal Parliament. With regard to the test criteria and the indications, this is the same story. You decide when or not to do a test. So you do have the possibility to increase the number of tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. The replies show that the vaccination strategy continues to affect the moods. That makes sense, too. We have all been looking forward to it for a long time and it is also the way to liberation. We all notice and feel that everyone thinks that they should be eligible for a vaccine more quickly. That makes sense, too. I also get a lot of messages from people who ask why that group is first vaccinated and why another group is not. I would like to put this in perspective in purely objective terms. There is currently, so to speak, a stock of vaccines in the refrigerator. That must of course be avoided. What comes in, needs to get out as soon as possible. There's no time to lose. We need to vaccinate as many people as possible as soon as possible. On the other hand, anyone who knows anything about logistics processes knows the vulnerability of such a system. In fact, some colleagues argue for a just-in-time principle. Anything that comes in should be out the same day. That's a very fragile system. Companies that work according to that principle know that. The rolling production line dares to stop because of a malfunction in the logistics chain, such as a truck that has an accident. If this occurred during the vaccinations and there was no stock, vaccinations would stop. It makes sense for a small stock to be kept as a buffer. The small numbers that have already been delivered do not represent a very large buffer compared to the number of vaccinations that will be administered at cruising speed. Now it is said that so much of the material supplied has only been administered to humans. If that is put into perspective, then everyone must admit that this is in itself a buffer that we will probably soon see as normal. Everyone thinks that he or she should be given priority. During the committee I got a message from someone I want to share. You do not have to answer it immediately, I will put it as a question for the next actua debate. The message comes from the paramedics who seem not to be discussed at the same time as the other care providers. They find that a little strange because they transport a lot of people, including covid patients. They're asking to see that, too. I had not tabled that question for today, so you should not answer it now if you cannot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u63	I thought Mrs Rohonyi asked for the floor, but she disappeared. Would you like to add something, Minister? No? Mrs. Depoorter, is there anything you'd like to say?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u64	I have a very small supplement. Minister, you said that the European contracts cannot be released. However, in its opinion on access to administrative documents, the Commission indicated that the part of the contracts that could be released could already be delivered to members. So perhaps it is a good idea to share with us the information that is not covered by the confidentiality clause?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u65	I'll write down the comment and think about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u66	Minister, I had put so many questions. Do you have the answer to question No. 55011888C on compensation for personal protective equipment ready?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u67	No, I did not receive an answer from the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic328x.u68	Okay, then I'll take the question to the next meeting.
