ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u1	I refer to my questions before the introduction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u2	Mr President, I shall confine myself to the questions. Do you think it is right that the body concerned should be able to assess the scientific nature of the researched activities? What about the autonomy of the officially competent bodies? Do the Belgian tax auditors have enough knowledge of R&D to judge this? What is the impact on companies' willingness to invest? Is there not a fear of negative tax consequences? I think that question is very important. BELSPO and the FPS Finances use several formal elements which make the necessary administration not uniform. Let's just say that's a federal problem. Are there plans to address the lack of uniformity and disagreement, if so which? If not, why not? What is the difference between sectors? How come the recoveries are no longer in line with each other? Why is there a difference? This is the icing on the cake in the number of checks between different regions of this country? Secondly, are there any plans to reform the R&D tax support measures? If so, which one? If not, are you considering proposing or defending such plans? Are there plans to address the complex and time-consuming administration needed to apply for aid, such as better guidance or simplified documents? Have you already had contact with the Secretary of State for Administrative Simplification, Mr Mathieu Michel?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u3	Mr De Spiegeleer, the necessary research and development knowledge is available at BELSPO, which was therefore involved in the control procedure for the measure. Administrations are obliged to make documentation deemed useful in the context of tax audits available to tax control officials. The R&D information of the companies in the context of an advisory request may be addressed to BELSPO. In addition, BELSPO shall review the information made available by undertakings in accordance with the requirements of Article 257. These are the starting dates and planned final dates of the projects or programmes and the nature of the research activities. Both the National Bank of Belgium and the Planning Bureau have established a correlation between the measure and the increase in R&D intensity in the companies in their analysis of the effects of the corporate tax relief. BELSPO is committed to applying the regulations in a congruent and unambiguous manner. The explanatory memorandum to the Law of 17 June on Tax and Financial Provisions requires consultation and the establishment of a procedure for the notification of R&D projects and programmes. As a practical procedure, BELSPO has distinguished between structural R&D programmes and punctual R&D projects and as such communicated to the sector through the VBO, Essenscia, Agoria and other social partners. During the notification, companies may plan a meeting with BELSPO, e.g. confidential R&D data can be explained orally. As I mentioned earlier, BELSPO checks whether all the information has been transmitted, as required by Article 275.3. Where appropriate, it should have the information supplemented orally or in writing. In other words, companies will also be given, if necessary, the opportunity to supplement the information already entrusted to BELSPO in complete confidentiality. BELSPO does not know the reason, but a number of West Flemish technology companies have asked BELSPO for a binding opinion on the years when the unpaid corporate tax was recovered. The recovery decisions are taken by the FPS Finance and the organisation of the checks rests with the FPS Finance. BELSPO participated in a proposal of the Federal Science Policy Council amending the R&D company tax measure. The aim of the proposal was, among other things, to define the concepts more clearly. The requests for advice from BELSPO in the context of the innovation deduction and the corporate tax relief for R&D are optional. In other words, the administrative requirements for applying the measure are very light. However, measures which, at user's discretion, can be applied without prior administrative approval often prove to be the least legally certain in ex post controls.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, it was a very comprehensive answer. You have already stressed the problems of administrative simplification. I remember, in particular, that the matter is being carefully examined by your services and that work is being carried out on it. We will continue to follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u5	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, one of the measures in your National Plan for Recovery and Resilience is the fiscal reform of fossil fuels. Experts in our country have long been calling for a shift from labour charges to taxes on, among other things, the environment and taxation. We read in the recovery plan that savings and new revenue from fiscal reform will also be accompanied by a social accompanying policy. This will reduce direct costs for citizens in the short term, while in the long term there will be benefits from climate mitigation. On that aspect of your plan, I have a number of questions, which I am trying to put together here. Firstly, the plan provides for a tax-driven instrument to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels. Is this a carbon tax, of which the National Bank of Belgium also advises us to introduce it? Then why is that term shunned in your plan? Do you consider that term to be somewhat sensitive? Secondly, will that reform be prepared by the end of 2023 or will some aspects of it, such as the phasing out of certain fossil fuel subsidies, be introduced sooner? I am thinking here of the favourable VAT rate for coal, but also of the various subsidies for fossil fuels recently mapped out by the FPS Finance. Any early reforms could also be part of the Action Plan on phasing out fossil fuel subsidies, which will be drawn up according to the National Energy and Climate Plan in 2021. How do the dates mentioned in the recovery plan and in the Climate Plan compare or how can you reconcile them? In Germany, a carbon tax on buildings and transport has been in force since early 2021. How do you assess the arrangements they have worked out? Do you believe that the Belgian deficit which we will then have in relation to countries such as Germany will make it easier for us to increase the price of emissions? The European Commission plans to develop a European carbon tax, including for buildings and transport, as part of the Fit-for-55 package. Is there any thought today about the domain of the fiscal steering mechanism, which will be developed in 2023? Will that be wider than the two sectors of buildings and transport? Finally, how many other Member States are considering introducing a tax-driven mechanism, such as a carbon tax, as part of their recovery plan? Can other countries' plans serve as a source of inspiration for our country? Is there also consultation and cooperation outside the European Union to coordinate the mechanisms? That's a lot of questions. I'm curious to hear your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u6	Mr President, Mr Vanbesien, your question is certainly very interesting, because our country is indeed facing major challenges in terms of taxation and certainly in terms of green taxation. Green taxation will play an important role in our transition and in the speed with which we can tackle that transition. The broader fiscal reform, as discussed earlier in the committee by Minister Van Peteghem, includes, among other things, the important pillar of green taxation. The reform you mention here, the fiscal reform of fossil fuels, is included. As with the broader fiscal reform, it requires extensive preparation. Over the next two years, various studies, analyses and projections will analyse the impact and effects resulting from the possible fiscal measures. Only at the end of this process can my fellow Minister Van Peteghem really define the reform and we will submit a proposal to the government. As with the broader fiscal reform, the proposal is expected in the second semester of 2023. As such, we have also submitted this to Europe in our plan. I cannot give you a more comprehensive answer, as this needs to be looked at in the context of the broader fiscal reform of Minister Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. We will certainly follow that up with Minister Van Peteghem, but since it will also be reflected in your recovery plan, I would also like to hear your opinion. After all, we all know that we have no time to waste if we want to keep global warming under control. We are already seeing many consequences of climate change today, sometimes here, but much more often in other places in the world, because there are reports coming in day after day. We all know what the target is, but it is not obvious to take the necessary steps. That is why it is important that your recovery plan is fully committed to this objective, as is the fiscal reform of Minister Van Peteghem. We must use this momentum to make progress. In that you will have our full support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u8	Mrs Dierick, thank you for the congratulations you have given in your question. I would like to point out that the submission of the plan is the result of excellent cooperation between all entities in Belgium, both the regions and the federal level. This undoubtedly shows that we are able to work together to achieve a common goal within our respective competences, and I am very pleased with that. I can confirm that the Recovery and Resilience Facility (FHV) is a performance-oriented instrument. In other words, the payout will depend on the achievement of quantitative targets and qualitative milestones. I want to make it clear that the objectives relate not only to reforms but also to investment projects. There is therefore no conditionality between reforms on the one hand and payments for investment projects on the other. The procedures for monitoring the FHV were broadly established by the Council of Ministers and the Consultation Committee of 30 April 2021. It is now up to each entity to assume its responsibility in implementing the projects and reforms that fall within its competence. I hope that the commitments made by the various parties will be specified in a cooperation agreement on the implementation of the FHV, along the lines of the SURE programme. The EU Council Implementing Decision sets out the milestones and targets very clearly. We intend to submit two payment requests next year. The first could come in next spring. Until then, we must ensure that all milestones and targets are met by the fourth quarter of 2021. The Chair will make a small table available to the members of the Committee with the milestones of the fourth quarter of 2021. This will give you an example of the milestones. In order to ensure transparency towards citizens and Members of Parliament, information on the monitoring of milestones and targets of PHV projects will be posted on the website to be operational by the beginning of next year. I am also committed to presenting to the European Commission the state of play in the implementation of our plans with each payment application. That can certainly happen in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u9	Everyone is pleased that we have received such good news that we can get 5.9 billion in support from Europe. It is important that we get to work now and that we effectively implement everything we have proposed. These are therefore large-scale investment projects, but also a number of major reforms, including pensions and taxes. That won't happen overnight. However, we must do everything we can to ensure that this is done effectively. It is important that the deadlines are met in order to get the necessary money out. I also look forward to the table on milestones. It is a good thing that you will be returning regularly, especially to the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda, so that Members of Parliament can properly follow up on the relay plan and objectives. I look forward to the presentation of the first results.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u10	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it is a troubling opinion that we have read on 29 June, from the Central Economic Council and the National Labour Council concerning the negotiation of management contracts for SNCB and infrabel. They are surprised that this document makes no mention of an extension of railway infrastructure. Both councils do not see how the government could manage to double the volume of goods transported by rail – an objective announced in the government agreement – without extending the rail network. The reasoning seems logical. The National Plan for Recovery and Resilience contains three railway investment projects for a total amount of €365 million over a six-year period (2021-2026), i.e. around €61 million per year. The amount is relatively modest compared to the "ordinary" federal allocation for rail investment of EUR 1.7 billion per year, which is not enough to preserve the existing infrastructure. In addition, of the €365 million, only 180 are likely to be used to develop the network. In fact, 15 million are for Smart Mobility projects, 75 million are for improving the accessibility of railway stations and 95 million will be for speeding up infrastructure renewal. An audit showed that 20% of railway assets have already exceeded their expected lifespan. Secondly, it turns out that a good part of the remaining EUR 180 million will be used to finance projects that were already planned. For example, for the project called "EuroCap-Rail" to link the three capitals of the European Union at a speed of 160 km/h, the work financed under the recovery plan is, in fact, part of an extensive programme to modernise the Brussels-Luxembourg axis, which started in 2007. I can also talk about the layout of the Ciney station and the re-electrification of the line to go from 3,000 volts to 25,000 volts that were already announced in the 2019 annual report of Infrabel. Mr Secretary of State, what will be the impact of the recovery plan on rail traffic? By what percentage will it increase passenger and freight traffic? Does the government plan to finance new rail investments outside the National Recovery and Resilience Plan? For what amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u11	Mr President, Mr President, I thank you for your question and for your concern – which I share – for the rail network, which is indeed one of the keys to achieving the ambitious decarbonisation objectives we have set ourselves. Belgium has one of the most dense railway networks in the world – this is the result of our history and, among other things, our industrial past – and of a very high level of electrification. This is a major asset for the mobility challenge in our country. One can therefore question the modal share of rail, which remains low and, in any case, certainly lower than its potential: 10% for freight and 8% for passengers, according to the figures of the Mobility FPS. In Belgium, the issue is not so much an extension of the network – which would consist of additional infrastructure – given its density for a country of a relatively small size, but rather a better use of the infrastructure and capacity already present. The investments we have identified and prioritized, in agreement with Minister Gilkinet's office and the public railway companies, are part of this vision. As a whole, they contribute to an increase in the capacity of the railway system, not necessarily – I agree – through the construction of tracks, but by means of other levers just as indispensable: to increase the length and weight of trains, to withstand a higher rate, to increase the reference speed, to reduce operational stops en route, to plan train paths without crossing trains to avoid delays, to make the management of the network more flexible in order to favour additional routes. On the other hand, I can confirm that all these investments are additional, as none of the successful projects had already received the required funding. Of course, and as you pointed out, many of them were already known and even prepared on a technical level. We know that these are often projects that require complex engineering. Therefore, in order to achieve a better post-covid impact, we are required to develop projects of high maturity – as requested by the Commission – so that they can be implemented in 2022-23. As a result, some of them were known and mature, but were not the subject of a financing reservation. Translating each investment into passenger and freight growth rates is a difficult, if not impossible, exercise, as it requires anticipating demand effects that are difficult to assess – particularly from the point of view of technical modelling. However, I refer to the government agreement that announced its ambition to double the volume of goods by 2030. Some studies show that this is possible. Minister Gilkinet also stressed his willingness to provide passenger ambitions figures as part of his 2040 vision. I agree with you that the RRF budget of EUR 365 million will not be enough to finance all the necessary investments. However, we must welcome the fact that rail absorbs almost 30% of the federal resources of the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience, which illustrates the importance that we, the government and I, attach to rail infrastructure. In broad terms, here are some of the investment pockets that are planned under the RRF. A whole series of renewals and modernizations will be carried out in 2021 and 2022 to increase transport capacity. Indeed, significant speed and load limitations related to infrastructure conditions are being imposed today. EUR 10 million will be allocated for the digitalisation of traffic. This concerns projects mainly at Infrabel which allow the use of certain digital levers to fluidize traffic, which will lead to an increase in services, frequencies, tonnage and passengers. As regards freight, EUR 80 million is foreseen for projects at the strategic corridors of the Alpine Rhine and the North Sea axis in order to allow trains of up to 750 metres of freight. EUR 20 million is earmarked for projects in Brussels, in particular for upgrading tunnels and certain level crossings and allowing for the proliferation of frequencies. A further €75 million is planned for the accessibility of railway stations. A minimum of 250 stations will have to be accessible by 2030. Through the RRF, 25 additional accessible stations are funded between 2022 and 2024. Finally, changes will be made on certain lines, notably the Brussels-Luxembourg axis, to increase the reference speed to 160 km/h and to improve the robustness of the line by €70 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. You tell us that Belgium is one of the densest countries in the world in rail terms. It was the densest in the world at a late, rather distant time. I think Belgium was number one in the 1960s. Since then, there has been a serious disconnection of the railway network. I don't have them, but I could bring you comparative maps of the network once and today. You'd be impressed by the rail desertification we're seeing there. For the rest, you tell us that there is no extension of the network but that we are going to increase traffic by other means. I take note of this, but I think it remains problematic. You also tell us that it is difficult to quantify the increase in rail freight or passenger traffic. However, when it comes to indicating in the government agreement that we are going to double, it does not seem difficult to quantify things! But it is difficult to say what the impact of the plan will be and what it will achieve! In addition, train stations are also closed, so travellers are discouraged from taking the train. I feel like we're strong in the ad effect! The railway is the first point in the recovery plan, I agree, but it seems very weak in relation to the objectives that the government has set itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u13	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, through examples of concrete projects, I am trying to see a little more clearly in the way you design the recovery plan. Federal projects include the development of an energy island in the North Sea that would be used to connect future offshore wind farms and to install high-voltage cables for electricity exchange with other countries. This project amounts to EUR 100 million, given that the total investment for the island would amount to some EUR 450 million. The island would extend over five hectares, including three for interconnections. The remaining two hectares would be used for other commercial uses (green hydrogen production, 5G antennas, etc.).). If I understood correctly, Elia, the electricity transmission system operator, would receive the 100 million subsidy provided for in the recovery plan and should conclude a contract with a joint venture to design, build and commission the island. Mr Secretary of State, do you confirm that the EUR 100 million consists of a grant granted without consideration to Elia, a company whose shareholding is partly private? Which entities will participate in the creation of the joint venture? How will the capital of this joint venture be distributed? Are there any other financing, subsidies or other public interventions planned to implement the island? Who will own the island? Is the company responsible for building the island already known? Will Deme, which had a project (abandoned) of artificial island off the Rooster, be associated? Are investors already known to develop other activities on the remaining part of the island? Will they become owners or co-owners of part of the island? The Recovery Plan document states that the island must provide a lower cost to the consumer than previously envisaged. How will the government guarantee this lower cost to the consumer, and avoid the EUR 100 million in public money instead contributing to the profit of private investors?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u14	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, I note, from sitting to sitting, your interest in this project. I am delighted that you are supporting this innovative project, led by our energy minister, Tinne Van der Straeten. It demonstrates Belgium's leadership in offshore wind. He encourages us to double our offshore wind capacity, and in this sense to take a step in the direction of transition. As you mentioned, Elia is a partially private company, with just over 40% of its publicly traded capital. Its shares are probably owned by Belgian citizens, but also and above all, for the most part, by the municipalities. For example, my municipality, Charleroi, is a shareholder of Elias. This is also the case for Brussels municipalities via Interfin. It is absolutely great that the local level can participate in an investment project of a company that is not a society of large private capitalists, but is a company with a Belgian anchor, which has real expertise in transition. I am pleased that our communes, whether Walloon, Flemish or Brussels, are associated with ambitious projects and that public euros are made available in beautiful projects such as this one. It should be noted that there was a pre-project of €320 million. The project planned to install three separate platforms to connect the coast and the various parks, notably in the Princess Elisabeth area where wind turbines are to be installed. The energy island development project envisaged today provides for a budget of EUR 480 million. This project adds important features for our country's energy transition. It is therefore a larger project, with a capacity to connect to foreign countries, including Denmark. This interconnectivity with other countries is very important to avoid the peak effects of renewable energy. Moreover, as the island is larger, it allows the development of additional activities, particularly related to green hydrogen. This also makes it a maintenance base for wind turbines. I don't know if any teams will be based there on a permanent basis. Personally, I would not want to be in the middle of the North Sea to maintain the wind turbines. But, in any case, the idea is to be able to use the island as a hub for the maintenance of wind turbines, which otherwise is assured from the coast under much more complicated conditions. The additional cost of this energy island will be offset by two effects. On the one hand, commercial activities will be borne by the joint venture to the tune of EUR 60 million. On the other hand, EUR 100 million will be provided by the recovery plan, part of which will be dedicated to supporting biodiversity in the area. Indeed, the idea is also to create a laboratory for marine biodiversity (birds, underwater fauna). The consideration requested by Elia is double. It must build the energy island without increasing the cost to the consumer, because we are in the regulated part of Elia's activity. In addition, it makes it possible to interconnect Belgium with other countries that have a high level of renewable energy production. I quoted Denmark. It is important to note that the construction of the transmission infrastructure for the transmission of energy from the Princess Elisabeth area falls under the regulated activities of Elias. It is only to this regulated section that the amounts of the stimulus plan are allocated. It can therefore be said with certainty that no subsidies will be paid to the activities of the commercial part of Elias or other undertakings. The CREG, the regulator of the energy sector, will have to sign its agreement prior to this financing in order to ensure the total separation between the commercial part of Elia's activities and the regulated parts to which this project is attached. And there will be no substantial subsidization of commercial activities through this project funded by the Recovery Plan. That is a concern that we share. What is also certain is that neither Elia nor the joint venture will own the island. The Belgian Government owns the land and grants a concession for the construction of the land. Elia Transmission Belgium will become the temporary concessionaire for these transmission activities on the hectares that will be developed, for the duration of the operations. The public authorities and the Belgian State in this case will remain the owners of the real right on the ground. The company responsible for building the island is not yet known. According to the planning which was submitted to the European Commission, the timing is as follows: the engineering work must be carried out by Q3 2021, the environmental studies by Q4 2022, the construction permit in Q3 2023, the start of the construction Q1 2024, for an end of construction Q2 2025. The processes for selecting the operators who will carry out the work will be carried out in accordance with market rules. Public calls will be issued by operators in the coming quarters, at a relatively rapid pace that will lead to the implementation of the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u15	Thank you, Secretary of State, for these various details. I note that the islet will be owned by the State. It's a good thing in itself. We are, of course, still in a pattern of energy production in which the private sector has a very large share, but you will tell me that this is already the situation. Unfortunately, we remain somewhat in the context of essentially private electricity production, with the role of Elias, who is, as you said, a public-private actor. I see a slight reduction in relation to what was announced in the recovery plan, namely that it was a matter of allowing the connection to be made at a lower cost to the consumer. You tell us here "without increasing the cost to the consumer". It's a little different from having a lower cost or having the same cost, but it depends on the point of comparison. I therefore note that there is a reduction in ambition in terms of cost. Finally, you have not reassured me that this money will not ultimately benefit private companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u16	Debates of the European Parliament 55015201C by Mrs Reuter has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u17	Mr Vicar, you are right to say that the real estate agent can only collect a commission from his principal. However, the Code of Ethics of the Professional Institute of Real Estate Agents (IPI) provides for an exception to this rule: when all parties concerned agree to derogate from it. However, in the Walloon Region, this derogation is not permitted, pursuant to Article 64 of the Walloon Decree relating to the residential lease, providing that any clause imposing on the lessee the intervention costs of a third party relating to the rental of a residential property shall be deemed to be unwritten, unless the lessee is the sponsor of the intervention. As a result, if the real estate agent is responsible for a leasing mission by the lessor and not for a research mission by the lessee, he can only claim his commission and the related costs from the lessor. Neither I nor my administration have received any complaints about this so far. As for the IPI, she received very few. It is therefore difficult to have a view of the extent of this practice. However, it seems that this practice is local, probably because of the proximity to France where it is common for the tenant to pay the real estate agent. This practice is certainly contrary to the Code of Ethics governing the profession of real estate agent. I therefore invite those who find it to file a complaint with the IPI, which will examine the file and, where appropriate, initiate disciplinary proceedings against the real estate agent(s) concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u18	Mr Minister, your answer reassures me because I know that the government has already worked, in June in particular, on the transposition of a European directive on unfair commercial practices. This practice seems to me to be to be fought. As it happens in our boring good city of Tournai, I ask you the question and I will send the answer back to the people who reported the abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u19	Do not hesitate, if there is an infringement, to tell them to send their complaint to my firm, which I will forward to the IPI!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u20	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Reuter's 55019291C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u21	Minister, the Walloon Union of Enterprises (UWE) has just published its proposals to avoid a future solvency crisis for our companies. Although bankruptcy figures remained stable after the end of the health measures, there is concern that the coming months may be much more difficult for many companies because debt is much higher than before. In order to support companies weakened as a result of the health crisis, UWE proposes, among other things, the strengthening of guaranteed lending systems. In addition to its proposals, it has also warned against phenomena harmful to the economic landscape of our country. For example, UWE points to the growing number of zombie companies in our country. Minister, what are you planning to do to fight zombie companies? Did UWE tell you about its proposals to avoid a future credit crisis for our companies? If so, what was your reaction?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u22	Madam Member, on 14 May last Graydon published a study on phantom and zombie companies in Belgium. The conclusions of this study are as follows. 8-9 % of companies publishing annual accounts in Belgium are zombie companies. Of a population of 436 000 companies publishing annual accounts, Belgium has between 36,000 and 40,000 zombie companies. These companies are among the applicants for covid aid and their needs for fresh capital are estimated at between EUR 5.4 billion and EUR 19 billion. They do not a priori generate growth, do not innovate, distort competitive conditions, but use subsidies, particularly employment. Most of them are neither in default nor in bankruptcy. It is thus difficult to eradicate them, unlike ghost societies. The issue of zombie companies in our country therefore receives my greatest attention and needs to be taken into account when developing measures, I will return to that. As far as the solvency of our companies is concerned, UWE sent me its 2021 economic report. This report looks at the financing of businesses through the crisis. The Walloon Union analysis shows an asymmetrical impact of the pandemic on the finances of Walloon companies. It states that the majority of these companies have been able to go through this difficult period without suffering too much financially, but that a significant part of them are facing much higher levels of debt than before the crisis and serious solvency issues. The findings and analyses of the Walloon Union developed in the economic report are obviously relevant. Proposals for measures are currently under consideration. Let me make it clear that some of them fall within the jurisdiction of the Regions, and some of my colleagues in the government. In any case, it is certain that the authorities must continue to support the liquidity and solvency of our companies in order to avoid a wave of bankruptcies and ensure a sustainable recovery of our economy. Of course, particular attention must be paid to SMEs in view of their importance in the economic fabric. As far as business support measures are concerned, measures to support businesses in sectors affected by the crisis must be continued as long as they prove necessary. The aim is to support the liquidity and solvency of companies in order to support them in their restart phase. The exit of support measures must therefore be precise and adapted. On the other hand, public aid must be increasingly targeted. They must be granted to companies experiencing difficulties following the covid crisis, and viable, but not to zombie and ghost companies. Indeed, targeting only structurally sound and viable enterprises is justified by both the efficiency and effectiveness of public policies. The recovery will also have to pay particular attention to innovative and strategic sectors and activities for our economy. I am thinking, for example, of the chemical, aeronautics and construction sectors. This will strengthen our country's recovery and competitiveness. This is also pointed out in the above-mentioned reports. Finally, it is essential, as the Walloon Union also emphasises, to ensure a favourable investment climate that supports and encourages the development of our businesses' activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u23	Minister, thank you for this very detailed answer. You learn it every day and, anyway, you must never stop learning. I learn the difference between ghost companies and zombie companies. I am quite astonished at the extent of what these zombie companies represent, including in terms of financial manna. It seems obvious to me that we are facing an important problem. We want to target the necessary aid to those who create jobs and wealth in our country. That is what we need to tackle, and that is how I also understand our responsibilities. So we must not help companies that would somehow benefit from a flaw in a system. We really need to look at this problem and find the niche that will, at some point, allow it to be resolved. I hear you take this very seriously. You have my full support, minister, if we can work together on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u24	Mr Minister, I have been looking forward to the answers to this question since March, so I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, the absolute top priority for the European Commission on South Africa is to accept the regionalisation of animal diseases and to recognise the OIE Statute of the Member States (World Organisation for Animal Health), especially for avian influenza. She organises study visits, seminars, high-level missions and letters. In 2020 there were also intensive discussions between EU Commissioner Hogan and the then South African government. I regularly receive feedback on the work done by the International Relations Cell of the BFSA. This cell pays particular attention not only to the preservation of the Belgian export markets, but also to the opening or reopening of new markets. For example, in 2020 exports of 30 different types of products were made possible in 26 third countries. The BFSA has prepared itself for the Brexit and has strengthened its control services by recruiting 113 additional employees. The BFSA provides the certificates and instructions for export to the United Kingdom and communicates about developments through a specific website, webinars and meetings with the various actors. Europe has strictly regulated market access procedures. Follow-up of files and contacts with the competent authorities on the ground may speed up procedures. Hence, we decided to issue a BFSA attaché in China. I am exploring the possibility of extending this initiative to other regions of the world. In addition to the purely sanitary and phytosanitary aspects, there are often political or economic interests that can have an impact on the treatment period of market opening dossiers. Of course, the BFSA and attachés on the spot have no impact on this. When there is a case of avian influenza in Belgium, it is difficult to escape certain deadlines imposed by our trading partners. I think it is very important to make a strong commitment to the prevention of avian influenza outbreaks. Experience over recent months and years has shown the importance of preventive measures, such as storage requirements and good bio-safety, to reduce the impact on the poultry sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Some of my questions are already dated, because the question has been dealt with somewhat. I understand that you have provided additional capacity with the BFSA and have also appointed a BFSA attaché for China. You are also examining possible enlargement to other markets, which I believe is a good thing. I share your opinion on the strong commitment to the prevention of avian influenza outbreaks, including communication with the affected sectors. The necessary compensation should also be provided for the sectors affected, as the outbreak of avian influenza has a severe financial impact on the affected farms. Let us hope that such outbreaks will not occur much in the future, because bird flu outbreaks have a huge impact on the export opportunities and the financial situation of companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u27	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, in Belgium, the BFSA is the competent authority for the official control of the entire food chain, including animal and plant health. The Agency is therefore responsible for the certification of the products. The BFSA is responsible for the control of the guarantees imposed by importing countries, including the United Kingdom. This check shall be carried out on each consignment and officially certified by means of a sanitary or phytosanitary certificate. The certificates and instructions for export to the UK are available on the website of the BFSA. In connection with the additional workload of the Brexit, the BFSA has recruited 110 employees in the Brexit framework who are employed to cover the additional checks on imports and exports. The BFSA makes the certificates and instructions for export to the United Kingdom available and communicates about developments through a specific website, webinars and meetings with the various actors. As regards the certificate for the export of poultry, the BFSA takes into account footnote 6 in the certificate, which refers to the restrictions imposed by the United Kingdom. It refers to three-month restrictions. Contacts were made with other Member States and with the Commission in order to achieve a uniform interpretation and thus a level playing field. On the basis of the feedback obtained, this vision can be adjusted and any adjustments made to the instruction bundles can be made. As far as the rights of the countries are concerned, each country is free to take the measures it considers necessary to safeguard its own population, plants and animals for diseases which could be introduced when importing food. This also applies to non-European countries. As has already been pointed out, fair rules are needed. In this respect, negotiations with the United Kingdom must be conducted through the European Commission. The European sector federations can also raise this issue with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic544x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I am naturally satisfied that additional capacity will be deployed at the BFSA. That was certainly necessary, in my opinion, so that due to the Brexit no bottlenecks or congestion would arise in the work that the BFSA has to do. There was indeed discussion about the interpretation of the poultry certificate. Did we not interpret it differently in Belgium than in other countries? That would not be good for competition among ourselves. I am therefore pleased that contact has been made with the other countries and that we interpret this in the same way. Otherwise, this would be a special form of competitive disadvantage.
