ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u1	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 1 July last a Belgian F-16 struck a building at Leeuwarden Air Base in the Netherlands. Fortunately, shortly before this collision, the pilot was able to activate his ejectable seat. The pilot and a person inside the vessel struck by our fighter aircraft were injured. As we can see, there were quite a number of rescue services on site. Minister, what can you tell us about the health status of the victims? Why did the pilot have to trigger the ejectable seat? What about the condition of the F-16 and the damage caused? Why was our F-16 in the north of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u2	Madam Minister, I refer to Mrs Jadin's good introduction. My questions are somewhat similar. What is the state of health of the injured, namely the Belgian pilots and the Dutch member of the ground crew? How will the injured be assisted in the event of the accident? What was the cause of the accident? Was it a technical cause or was it a human error, an external factor or a combination of those factors? How big is the damage to the fighter plane? What was the mission of the F-16 involved? Was it a training mission or not? What impact does this have on the employability of our air force?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u3	Minister, I refer to Mr Kattrin Jadin's excellent introduction and I come directly to my questions. Minister, can you provide an update on the circumstances of this accident? Have the causes been identified? What about the health status of the two injured? What is the extent of the damage? Who pays the repair bill and what is its amount? What are the lessons learned by Defence from this incident? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u4	I agree with Mrs Jadin's interesting question. I, too, want to know what the circumstances were. What was the cause of this accident? What were the consequences for the pilot and the other wounded? Can the organization learn lessons from this? What was the specific assignment? What exactly was that farewell tour?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u5	Mrs Jadin has made an excellent introduction and I am strictly limited to my questions. What is the pilot's health to date? Have the crew chief and pilot been able to benefit from any psychological support? Has the crew chief been able to continue training? What about the state of the F-16? Is it repairable? Could you tell us more about the circumstances of the accident? Is this a technical, human or procedural problem? What are the findings of the Security Investigation Committee, the independent security incident investigation body in the Netherlands that visited the site, as well as the Aviation Safety Investigation Board of our Defence that also conducted a flight safety investigation? Have any measures been taken to ensure that such an accident no longer occurs? Finally, what about compensation for damages?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u6	On the morning of 1 July, an incident occurred on the Leeuwarden base in the north of the Netherlands, involving a F-16 of Defence participating in an international course entitled Weapons Instructor Course. Defence participates annually in this development training course with a number of pilots and fighter aircraft in order to train future instructors and employ our aircraft as effectively as possible in accordance with the most advanced and proven standards and tactics. The course runs from 3 May to 22 October and is attended by Defence with four intern pilots, four instructors and five aircraft, supported by a detachment of about 50 people. In addition to Belgium, the Netherlands and Norway also participate. Initial reports indicate that the incident occurred during the start sequence, when the aircraft was still in the holds on the parking lot. It appears that the start of the engine did not proceed as intended, resulting in an excessive and uncontrollable engine speed exceeding the limits of the holds and brakes. This would have led to a sudden acceleration of the aircraft and to the fall of the technician assisting the pilot during the start-up. Given the close obstacles, the pilot had to act very quickly using all the means at his disposal to stop the aircraft. When he realized that a collision with a prefabricated structure about 50 metres from the original location of the aircraft was inevitable, he opted for the activation of his ejectable seat as a last resort. Following his ejection, the pilot, a highly experienced F-16 instructor, sustained a leg injury. He landed with the help of his parachute, was then rescued by the rescue services present at the base and was immediately transferred to the hospital. The technician had no apparent injuries but was taken to the hospital as a precaution. The latter was in a mild state of shock. The families were immediately informed. While in hospital, the pilot received the necessary care and was able to reach his home the next day at the end of the day. Both soldiers who were directly involved in the incident are doing well and are closely followed up, also on a psychosocial level. The device has come to a standstill after the use of a temporary prefab container, which serves as a housing for technical personnel. Since the zone was not used for the exercise, no one was present inside and no one else was in danger. Therefore, there is only limited material damage. As usual following an aviation incident or an accident, an investigation was immediately initiated. The Dutch Marechaussee immediately took on this task, assisted by experts from the Air Safety Agency of the Netherlands Royal Air Force. The investigation of the marechaussee and the public prosecutor mainly focuses on the judicial aspects, where the aviation safety investigation seeks to reveal the circumstances and possible causes of the incident in complete independence. On the Belgian side the flight safety chain was immediately activated and on the order of the Chief of Defense an aviation safety investigation board was compiled and sent the day itself on the spot. The members of the aviation safety investigation board have already taken over the flight safety investigation from their Dutch colleagues but the latter remain available for support. The investigation is still under way. It is premature to decide on the causes of this incident. At present, all avenues are being considered. As for material damage, an analysis will determine whether the aircraft can be repaired. The determination of the extent and financial impact of ground damage is part of the judicial investigation. The settlement of claims for damages is carried out in close cooperation with the Dutch Ministry of Defence within the framework of a treaty agreement between our two countries. There is currently no insight into the concrete extent of the damage, which is still limited. The impact of the unavailability of this device on training or on the operational level will be rather limited as long as the device has not been repaired. Despite the technical or logistical challenges associated with the ageing fleet, the maintenance and follow-up of our aircraft meet the most demanding technical standards of airworthiness.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u7	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for giving us this important information. We made a visit last year. We also know the high level of training and requirement required of F-16 pilots. We are pleased to learn that the pilot and technician are well. We will return to the results of this investigation. This is not the first time an F-16 incident has occurred. A year and a half ago, we had to look at flaws. It happens. But we hope that there will not be too much in the future and that we will be able to clarify this incident very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u8	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I am pleased to hear that the injured are doing well and that the pilot has been given the necessary follow-up and guidance. I am also pleased that the family was informed almost immediately and that sufficient attention has been paid to the psychosocial support of the people involved in the accident. You say that the F-16 took part in an annual training mission, that the aircraft had engine problems, that the pilot did what he had to do and that he managed to save himself at the last minute by using his ejector seat. You have also said that there is no idea yet of the deployment of our Air Force, because there are still investigations about the costs of repairing the aircraft. I understand the investigation of the aviation safety investigation board is still ongoing. I would ask you to inform us if you have that report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your clarification. I would also like to extend my best wishes for the recovery of the wounded. I'm glad to hear it was apparently not too serious. I am also reassured to hear that they would have acted professionally, what is expected of them. I understand that the investigation is under way and I will probably come back to know the results of this investigation as well as the amount of material damage, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u10	Madam Minister, like my fellow Members, I welcome the fact that the staff involved are relatively well placed and that the necessary framework has been provided to ensure that they are able to handle the incident properly. You yourself rightly pointed out the ageing material and the ageing fleet. That is why I think it was a sensible decision by the previous coalition to focus specifically on the replacement of the F-16, which is so slowly reaching the end of its lifespan. In order to avoid such accidents, too, I think it is necessary that the replacement be made as soon as possible. We are therefore eagerly looking forward to the arrival of the new aircraft, the F-35.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answers. As is the case with my colleagues, I am reassured that the people who were victims of this accident are well and that the measures have been taken to avoid such acts. Like Mrs Jadin and other colleagues also present here, I was able to follow the take-off of the F-16s on a field mission, just before containment, in 2020. We were very much impressed by the professionalism of our military. Sometimes the Conings affair makes us see the landscape in black, without wanting to do bad wordplay, but it must be noted that things work well within the Defence, with men and women who work with a lot of expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u12	Mr President, Minister, the media has provided us with an estimate of the cost of the general wage increase that the defence staff will receive. By 2024, some 150 million euros would be released within the Defence budget. Soldiers and Petty Officers will receive an average raise of 15% throughout their career. Officers get a storage between 7.5 and 14.5 %. In 2022 and 2023, 40% of the wager increase will be paid, the rest in 2024. I have the following questions. Can you also deliver the pay tables to the committee and not just to the media? These are average figures, but it is already clear that certain categories of defence personnel will gain significantly in the adjustment of the baremas and others less. Which groups or ranks within the Defense Department will least enjoy the increase and why? What were the criteria you used for the equalization of remuneration? The media only talks about soldiers, petty officers and officers. Will the general wage increase also benefit the civilian staff? Was the agreement an absolute alignment with the corresponding ranks of the other security forces achieved or are there still any deviations to the detriment of the defence? The cost of EUR 150 million should be realised within the budget. Can you confirm that? How much of this is realized within the staff envelope? If this does not apply to 100 %, which posts of Defence are endorsed for a saving? Is there an agreement within the government that, if Defence is unable to realise the plan unexpectedly, the necessary money will be included in the budgets of 2022-2024, or should it be absorbed by internal savings? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the dossier on the valorisation of military personnel follows on from the resolution on HR policy in defence adopted on 9 July 2020 by the plenary session of the Chamber, which asked the federal government to provide for a co-ordination between Defence and the federal government's security professions. This commitment is recalled in my policy statement of 4 November 2020 and is an important measure for recapitalisation in the area of staff, provided for in the Government Agreement of 30 September 2020. In addition to the negotiations with the representative trade unions, which reached an agreement, this project still has to go through administrative and budgetary controls. It is therefore too early to communicate figures, percentages or calculations. The revision envisaged concerns all military personnel categories. A possible revision of the betting scales of civilian personnel does not fall within the competence of the Defence Department, but does fall within the competence of the Public Prosecutor. Budgetary coverage is foreseen within the growth path for defence efforts, as foreseen in the coalition agreement. This measure will have to take effect progressively, with a planned start in 2022 in order to be fully implemented by 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u14	Madam Minister, I understand from your reply that it is for all the degrees of civilian staff and that they are normally not included. So I have to ask Mrs De Sutter. It starts next year. You say this is foreseen within the growth path. Then what I'm wondering is whether you'll get there. Is there enough money to be provided? I understand that this is not the case and that some thinking exercises are being carried out to determine how that budget can be achieved through internal shifts. Among other things, consideration was given to not allowing the longer working of certain military categories, but to retiring them from the moment this is possible. This would save the budget that could then be used to increase wages. I don't know if there's anything to it. That's a rumor going around. You can't say anything more about that. In the autumn we will ask again exactly what the fork is like.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u15	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, however general it may be at the moment. This is perhaps logical, since you say that there are still a number of hurdles to be taken and that administrative control still needs to be carried out. The agreement you reached was announced as an historic agreement. I hope that the practical implementation of the agreement can be followed quickly and can become concrete, so that all the military who are responsible for our security can soon be properly rewarded. You will no doubt know that the problem of wages is still at the root of the fact that our defence is suffering from a structural shortage of personnel. All attention goes to the practical implementation. We shall certainly follow it. I would also like to stress, although it is not your direct responsibility, that you should contact your colleague, Minister De Sutter, so that the civilian staff are not forgotten. We will follow this up at that level as well. Finally, you mentioned that there will undoubtedly be a number of implications for the defence budget. Which domains you may or may not have to save, you cannot of course say at the moment. We will have to look at where to adjust later and where not. Of course, the remuneration of police forces is not stopped either. I would ask you to do everything in your power so that in the long term it does not fall behind that of the other security services of this country. That should not be the intention. I ask that you give absolute priority in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u16	Madam Minister, on 20 May, NATO's Steadfast Defender 2021 exercise began with as many as 20 allies and partners participating in a large-scale test of NATO's adapted command structure to test the readiness of military mobility and to strengthen the alliance's determination against foreign threats. The programme includes major exercises from the North Sea to Turkey involving up to 9,000 men at a time, in order to determine whether the new command structure can coordinate rapid movements across national borders sufficiently and efficiently quickly. In addition to training and evaluating the NATO Command Structure, the focus is on the transatlantic strengthening of the very high quality joint task force (VJTF) for defensive operations in southern Europe under the direction of Turkey. The absence of Belgium in the exercise is striking, while the majority of our allies and neighbouring countries are involved. Can you explain the relevance for NATO of the exercise Steadfast Defender 2021? How do you explain the absence of our country during that general exercise of the alliance? Were we not asked to participate, did we not have the necessary resources to contribute or did the DOD not consider the exercise relevant to our country? Our neighbours are mainly involved in the maritime section of JointForceCommandNorfolk, with the deployment of 18 ships, 1 submarine, 40 aircraft and 5,000 troops. Are we involved in any way through BeNeSam? Does our absence in any way affect our interoperability with our allies and the familiarity of our defense with the new Joint Support and Enabling Command and the Joint Force Command in Naples?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u17	The exercise Steadfast Defender 2021 is dedicated to collective defense based on Article 5. In the context of NATO's deterrent policy, this exercise has three objectives: to ensure the transatlantic link, to move troops smoothly across Europe to a possible crisis area and to speed up the deployment of the very high quality joint task force. With the evacuation of troops and equipment in Portugal and the movement of troops to Romania, the exercise takes place mainly in the south of Europe. Belgium was therefore not asked to participate as a host or transit country as part of the exercise. The development of the elements belonging to the VJTF is carried out under the command of Turkey. Since the capacity of the Special Forces holding Belgium in standby for VJTF is difficult to fit into such exercises, Belgium's participation is limited to the presence of staff officers at the headquarters of SHAPE and the NATO Movement Coordination Hub near the Agent Support Enabling Command in Ulm, Germany. In the maritime field, Belgium is currently participating in a NATO Standing Naval Forces exercise in the Baltic Sea and an exercise in the surroundings of Scotland. The activities of Steadfast Defender 2021 are not specifically monitored, but the Belgian defense remains aware of the general course of the exercise through contacts with the Allied Maritime Command. Through the participation of staff officers, Belgium remains involved in the exercise and our Defence can draw the necessary lessons. Especially the presence of a staff officer in NATO Movement Coordination Hub allows us to understand and integrate the procedures used in the newly established Joint Support Enabling Command into our national procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u19	Madam Secretary, a NATO summit took place on 14 June. We were briefed on this before the summit, but after that there was not really a debriefing. However, I have seen questions put to the Prime Minister on Monday, including by the President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u20	At the same time, the debate on the Jürgen Conings case took place here. The questions put by Mrs Ponthier and myself were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u21	In that case, I'd like to ask my own questions. Madam Minister, can you explain the agenda of the NATO summit and the accents your government wishes to place on this issue? We have, of course, already dealt with this. Could you give me a brief debriefing? That's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u22	Mr Francken, as you know, the NATO meeting was held on 14 June. Prime Minister De Croo, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs Wilmès and I represented Belgium at this summit. We set out our positions during an exchange of views at the joint meeting of the Committee on External Relations and Defence on 7 June. I refer to our previous exchanges on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u23	Madam Secretary, I just wanted to know how it went. I think it went relatively well. After all, I have seen the Prime Minister shine, along with two members of the government, Mrs Wilmès and you. I have the impression that the atmosphere was better than at the time of President Trump, although that may not be difficult. We'll follow it up. I hope that NATO will be able to work with this momentum in the coming years, which would really be a relief after difficult times.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, you replied to a written question by Mr Hanus that the creation of a mixed Belgian-Luxembourg battalion, which will be stationed at Camp Lagland, is being studied by Defence. That is a very ambitious plan that will certainly contribute to the further integration of our two armies, and an interesting test project. Since both countries are part of NATO, many aspects have already been settled by a treaty between the parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the status of a military force of 19 June 1951. Nevertheless, this project raises many questions about the concrete implementation and underlying agreements. Where does it stand with regard to the development of this project and where are the negotiations with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on this matter? I would like to have an update on this. With regard to the establishment of the battalion, what is the expected strength of numbers and what national balance is being pursued among the staff? Who will command this unit and decide on her bet? Is this the responsibility of our Defence Department or does it require joint decision-making by both countries and therefore partial integration of headquarters? Will a key be agreed on the costs of armament, training, use of barracks, etc., or should this be borne by Belgium as a host country? What agreements still need to be made for the assignment of uniforms, the use of arms by Luxembourg military in our territory, their legal responsibility in the event of incidents, and their possible commitment to the battalion, the core missions of both Belgian and Luxembourg Defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u25	Madam Minister, I have recently asked you about this, that is to say, the possibility of setting up a Belgian-Luxembourg battalion at the level of the Earth Component, which could very well take its quarters at Camp Lagland in Arlon. You told me the project was under study. Minister, a few weeks later, here are my new questions on this subject. Can you provide us with an update on this project? How do you interact with your Grand-Ducal counterpart in this regard? What is the deadline for the current study? If such a mixed battalion were eventually to come into being, could you already share more information with us, particularly as regards the duty station and the number of staff that this battalion would have? Is Camp Lagland part of the plan? Could this battalion play a role in the capacity development related to the NATO defence planning process? If that is what is on the table in discussions with our Luxembourg neighbours, could you develop? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u26	Mr President, the various departments of the Belgian defence staff are currently studying the development of this project together with their colleagues in the Luxembourg defence staff. The composition of a binational unit is very complex and requires a thorough analysis throughout all relevant aspects of the questions. That analysis has not yet been completed. At the moment, it is premature to formulate a definitive response to it. I can only tell you that this study falls within the framework of the capacity development provided for by the NATO Defence Planning Process, and that it concerns a combat reconnaissance battalion. My department intends to respond to this need, with Luxembourg - one of our privileged partners. Like other aspects, the implementation of this unit is part of the study and has not yet been decided. We will certainly have the opportunity to discuss this very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u27	Madam Secretary, I take note of the plans. We will continue to follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u28	Minister, thank you for allowing us to take stock of this important project. Its potential, which I welcome, could be of great importance in terms of cooperation between our two countries, which it would help to renew. Therefore, I will continue to follow this file with caution. Thank you again, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u29	Madam Minister, while the Western countries are withdrawing their troops, the question remains what should happen to the Afghan staff who have been faithfully assisting them for years. The Cabinets of Defence and Asylum and Migration are working on an asylum scheme for Afghan interpreters and fixers who have assisted us. Their lives would be in danger now that the Taliban is gaining ground again. For security reasons, they would be offered a life with us through an asylum procedure or a humanitarian visa. I understood from Mr Mahdi that one had already been delivered. How many people have already received a humanitarian visa? Have they already arrived in Belgium or are they still there? How many people are involved, in other words how many local employees have DOD contracted in its nearly ten-year presence in the country? Does the asylum system concern only the persons themselves or also their direct or broad family? How many persons would be eligible for the scheme in total? Some contacts were rather on a loose basis. What is the criterion on which people are helped? Is that discretionary or do they have to submit a contract of employment with the Defense Department? How will the screening go? Will the government send another team on the ground for this, or does the DOD already have the necessary data or screening of those persons? Some of them, perhaps even a majority, have also worked for other countries, certainly Germany. Germany has also drawn up a scheme and offers asylum. How many people have worked exclusively with the Belgian Defence Department? Are we talking to the Germans about this? What does this arrangement look like? Please also explain more about the scheme itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u30	I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u31	Mr President, in order to save time, I will be very specific on this issue. Could we find out more about the status of this case, in connection with the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration? Is it already possible to know the procedure that will be used to welcome these courageous people who have worked for peace and democracy? On what basis, what specific criteria will these persons be selected by Belgium (e.g. employment contract with the Defence)? Could you give us an order of magnitude regarding the number of persons and families involved in the procedure? Finally, are there joint agreements in this framework with European countries that have also collaborated with Afghan interpreters and fixers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u32	Defence has deployed several local interpreters and fixers in Afghanistan for years. Belgium and the Defence Department in particular want to assume their responsibilities and check each file against a number of criteria, such as the time someone worked for Belgian detachments on the spot and the merits of the person in question. Applications for humanitarian visas shall relate to the person in question and his family, but shall be limited to the nuclear family, minor children and partner. In the procedure that has been worked out, attention is also given to the safety aspect, as all persons concerned will always be subject to the necessary safety screening. The list of people who have worked for Defence in Afghanistan in the past contains less than 30 persons. These people did not always work exclusively for Belgium, but were often hired by other countries afterwards. Those persons are therefore free to apply for a visa for another country. There are no bilateral agreements for this. In a country such as Afghanistan, with its specific conditions of war, it is not obvious, after all these years and with a limited Belgian presence on the ground, after the complete withdrawal of our military, to find the former employees and to point out to them the possibility of applying for a visa. If people come forward and apply for a visa arguing that they would have worked for the Belgian army, consultations between the Ministry of Defence, the Office of Foreigners and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration will take place in order to ensure a good flow of information between the services and the proper management of these specific cases. The Asylum and Migration and Defence firms will keep each other informed on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u33	Madam Secretary, we are talking about less than 30 people. Are there any here yet? If so, how many are there? How many visas have already been issued effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u34	One person with his family, which makes a total of three.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u35	Have they arrived in Belgium yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u36	They're here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u37	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. So it's still very limited. I suspect there's still some coming in the near future. We'll follow up on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answers. We have duties to perform towards these people. It is a matter of morals and honour. We will continue to follow the case and I am curious to see how the situation is evolving.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u40	Madam Secretary, FN Herstal has proposed a new weapon, the FN Evolys. It is a new improved ultralight machine gun that can weigh up to three kilos less than its predecessor, the FN Minimi, which is still in use by our army units. As Defense is one of the most loyal users of FN Herstal's products, it is not unthinkable that the staff is interested in this weapon, replacing the current arsenal or for adaptation by the special operations regiment because of the lighter profile. I have a number of questions about that. In 2016, Defense purchased 242 Minimis to replace the obsolete FN MAG. How many Minimi systems of type 5.56 and 7.62 does the Department of Defense currently have in use? What is their expected lifetime? Is the DOD interested in taking on a new weapons system in the coming years to replace the Minimis? In other words, is the DOD interested in purchasing this new device? As a user of the FN Minimi's, has the DOD had contacts with the company for possible interest in testing, usage or purchase?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u41	Mr Buysrogge, the expected operational life of the Minimis purchased in 2016 is 2030. At the end of the 1980s 3,000 Minimis were purchased, 5,56 of which about 1,000 are still operational. Due to the end of life upgrade of 2013, the lifespan could be extended to 2025. The weapon Evolys is a new type of weapon that is substantially different from the Minimi. Compared to the Minimi it has no second barrel, it cannot be mounted on vehicles and has a higher fire cadence, which however can be held for less time. This makes it suitable for specific assignments and for light units within Defence, but it cannot be considered as the replacement of the Minimi. FN Herstal has informed Defense about the Evolys and has given a demonstration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u42	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I conclude from this that it cannot be considered a complete replacement of that type of Minimi, but that there is an interest within the Defense Department. At least there has been contact and a proposal. It could possibly be used for special units. I also assume that this will be done in accordance with the standard procedures when the equipment will be purchased. It is interesting that this market is being explored further and that, when there are new devices, we seize the opportunity for a number of specific services and that this slope is being investigated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u43	Madam Secretary, the Alouette III has completed its last flight on the frigate Leopold I and is taken out of service. The NH90 is now taking over this task fully. Not only is this the end of an era, it also has a very real impact on the remaining helicopter capacity of Defense and the file of possible outsourcing of SAR assignments and the possible replacement of this type of aircraft. I would like to refer to your response in February 2021, in which you said: "The study on the future helicopter capacity of Defence in support of the medical and land component is still ongoing. The results will be presented to me in the near future. In this context, the question can only be addressed in greater depth when I have all the elements at my disposal." In the meantime, did the DOD get you that study? What slopes are possible? According to you, is it possible to replace both the NH90 TTH and the A109 with one device that can perform both functions or is Defense looking for two types of helicopters? Is there the possibility of converting one or more TTH to the NFH standard for the enhancement of our SAR capacity and the occupation of our frigates? Is the outsourcing of SAR assignments to release NH90s for service on the frigates still considered as a valid track? Does the increased use of the A109 for other feces of the NH90 affect the lifespan of their program? Is a faster replacement necessary? Other European countries are also looking for new devices for tactical transport. How's the DOD's search for strategic partners going for that replacement? Do you see this fit within previous plans for an integrated Benelux Helicopter Commando? The McDonnell Douglas 902 helicopters of the Air Support Directorate would also need to be replaced. Are we looking at the possibilities for a common purchase for the different public services? Finally, what is the fate of the last Alouette III helicopters? Are they still sold or, if necessary, made available to the WHI, which will be discussed here?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u44	The Alouette III vetrok during the Ascension weekend on one last mission. So my question is somewhat dated. Meanwhile, the plane is already back and after a small ceremony it has retired. In February, in response to questions from Mr Buysrogge and myself, you said that you were expecting a study on the future helicopter capacity in the near future. Can we get the results of that study? Do we have access? What has the study shown? Do Defence plan the introduction of new LUH or TTH helicopters or a combination of both? In that case, I would like to receive some more information on the procedure that will be used for this purpose. What stage is it currently in? I am in favour of pooling and sharing with our neighbouring countries using interesting types of helicopters, such as the NH90 or the EC145. Did the study investigate this? I found the point made by the chairman about the police to be correct. I too have already asked written questions about this. What is the current state of affairs regarding the NH90 TTH? What will the DOD do with these devices? I heard their numbers were gonna decrease. What will happen in the future with the Alouette III devices? Have they been assigned to the WHI and have they been assigned a specific location?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u45	The study on the future helicopter capacity is almost complete at staff level. The evolution of helicopter capacity will therefore be included in the updated strategic vision and possibly in the military programme law. Both documents will be submitted to the Members of Parliament. The first results show that the availability of the existing NH90 helicopter capacity is low. This situation is not peculiar to the Belgian Defence, this also affects the other nations that fly with the NH90. The NH90 consists of two versions, the NATO Frigate Helicopter or NFH and the Tactical Transport Helicopter or TTH. Many parts differ from each other, for example the avionics, the radar and the sonar. Therefore, the TTH cannot be transformed into an NFH version. We are now studying, among other things, how the execution of the TTH's assignments can be guaranteed in the best way possible. For the assignments entrusted to the NFH, it analyses how Defense can fulfil its engagements in the field of antisubmarine warfare aboard the frigates and in the field of Search and Rescue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u46	We're gonna have to stay a little hungry. In February, you said that the study would be completed in the near future, now you say that the study was almost completed by the staff. I don't know where the difference is between delivering the next day and getting almost done by the staff. In the meantime, we've moved on for over four months. I conclude from this that the story will be included in the strategic vision. So we will have to stay hungry for a while to see exactly what direction it will go. We'll keep following up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u47	I'd rather the work be done thoroughly than too quickly. If the minister thinks he should take her time together with the staff, then she should. The update of the strategic plan has been described by experts and there is now pressure on it in the Interkabinets Working Group. After the recess, the Minister comes with an update and a proposal of program law. We have to give the minister and the staff that time. With the disappearance of the Alouette III, the almost unavailability of the TTH and the dismantling of the Agusta, a reliable defense helicopter capacity of four NH90 NATO fregathelicopters is taken. This situation is not sustainable for the years to come. After the summer, we need to use the work of the strategic committee and you to adjust a sleeve here, so that we can have fully operational helicopter capacity again by the end of the 20s. I keep repeating that a helicopter must be like a Swiss knife for the Defense Department; it must be capable of doing all kinds of things with it. That is essential for a modern defense.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u48	Madam Minister, the government decided not to retain quarters of the future in the list of projects for the European Recovery Fund. When I questioned you about this in April, you indicated that they will be part of the federal plan for relay and investment and that this will have no impact on the projects or on the planned implementation period. Details about the financing did not want to give you because the locations were not yet known. On 7 March, the mayor of Charleroi, Paul Magnette, who was perhaps unknown to you, communicated the candidacy of his city and declared himself quite victorious. So it's hard to say there's a secret. Which municipalities in East Flanders and Hainaut are still in the running for the installation of a barracks of the future? You indicated that you did not want to go into detail about the exact resources required until the choice had been made. Can you confirm that the promised EUR 100 million for construction is also effectively requested by the Defense Department for the federal plan? What guarantees have you received from your coalition partners that you will receive this money? You indicated that a refinement of funding is for later. Is this EUR 100 million intended solely for the construction of the barracks or also for the purchase of land and the attracting of any partners to build them? Which partners in the private sector, industry or security services are Defence currently discussing synergies with regard to cooperation to shape future barracks? Does the DOD therefore have an eye for public-private cooperation with a financial contribution from these partners? How much could it be?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u49	Mr Buysrogge, no decision has yet been taken on the introduction of the new quarters. In Wallonia a barracks is planned in Hainaut. Charleroi is indeed one of the possibilities. For Flanders a new quarter of an hour is planned in East Flanders. Several locations are still under investigation. Indeed, in the coming years, EUR 100 million will be provided within the federal budget for the realisation of quarters of the future, on top of the multiannual budget of Defence. This EUR 100 million can be used for the whole of the expenditure related to the realisation of quarters of the future. Consultation with local actors and possible future partners was launched but can only be implemented after the final decision on the location of the quarters and the development of the corresponding local master plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u50	There hasn't been much evolution since our previous question. You say that the conversations are still ongoing and that there are still discussions with different administrations. I would like to call on you to follow that up and to proceed effectively to the realization. One of my questions was about the concept of the barracks of the future and cooperation with the private sector, research institutions and so on. I understand that this has not been worked out to the point yet, but purely conceptually it seems interesting to me to include that in that story as well. I think there are many opportunities in this cooperation, so that Defence can become a real part of society. I consider it an opportunity to shape the barracks of the future in that sense. I hope that we can think further about how that should be done. I'm your ally to think about that further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u51	Mr President, Madam Minister, according to various diplomatic sources Ankara has applied for Turkey's participation in the European PESCO project to the Dutch authorities coordinating this European Union military mobility project. Together with Canada, the United States and Norway, the European Union had already accepted the involvement of three third countries. In this case, and all the more so in view of Turkey's tense and problematic relationship with European Union member countries such as Greece or Cyprus, I wonder how the European Union will respond to this request for cooperation. Minister, what about Turkey's possible participation in the PESCO project? What is the Belgian position on this request for participation? Under what conditions would Turkish participation be acceptable?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u52	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, I can confirm that on 30 April 2021 the Turkish Ambassador to the European Union introduced a letter to his Dutch counterpart in which Turkey expresses its willingness to participate as a third country in the PESCO project on military mobility. The Netherlands is leading the PESCO project. On 5 November 2020, the Council established the general conditions under which third countries could be invited, on an exceptional basis, to participate in specific PESCO projects, thus paving the way for enhanced and more ambitious defence cooperation with partners within the framework of the European Union. With this decision, third States that can add value to a PESCO project can be invited to participate, if they meet the political, legal and technical conditions. For the moment, Turkey does not fulfil all the conditions laid down in Article 3 of the Council Decision. In particular, Turkey has not concluded an agreement with the European Union on information security. It will be up to the Netherlands, the leaders of this project, to consult members and therefore Belgium on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u53	Madam Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u54	Madam Secretary, what progress has been made with the creation of a cyber component that you have announced? I would like an explanation in terms of staff, budget and housing. Will that Belgian cyber component be able to carry out defensive and offensive actions? In what way will we work with the public administrations that have cybersecurity as their core task? That's a lot of them. Will there be a partnership? Is there also cooperation with the private sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u55	Madam Secretary, in your policy statement, you announced that you would be sensitive to expanding the cyber capacity of Defence and that this will translate into a fully-fledged fifth component in five years' time. In addition, you would like to strengthen existing cyber capacity at ADIV and explore how higher specialised cyber profiles can easily be recruited and how these profiles can be reduced. In addition, on 20 May 2021, the government announced a cybersecurity plan, partly and not exclusively motivated by the DDOS attack on Belnet of 4 May 2021. Was the DOD involved in the creation of the cybersecurity plan and how did that happen? Are the Minister's plans regarding the creation of a cyber component compatible with that cybersecurity plan? Are the different cybersecurity initiatives involved and, if so, to what extent? Does the so-called cybersecurity plan have an impact on the timeline for the creation and deepening of the cyber component in the Defense Department, as you envisage?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u56	Mr President, Minister, in the face of the rise in cyberattacks, the European Commission has decided to react and has presented its future European Cybersecurity Unit, which will be in place by 2023. Its objective will be to combat the growing number of serious cyber incidents that have an impact on public services and on the lives of businesses and citizens of the European Union. The participating countries will also be able to use the unity as a platform for sharing and helping each other. Madam Minister, will this European project have any influence on the implementation of the Belgian component in this area? By what means is Belgium involved in the European Union project? Is it envisaged that each Member State will make experts available to that unit?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u57	Mr President, for the creation of the cyber component, we are working on the necessary budget and investment to strengthen current capacity. In addition, I have appointed a project officer to accompany this transformation from this summer onwards. Defence's cyber strategy provides capabilities to ensure freedom of movement and generate effects in cyberspace. This includes cyber security operations, cyber defence operations, cyber intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance operations and offensive cyber operations. This corresponds to the NATO-Cyber Operation Framework. Defence is a member of the Belgian Cyber Security Coalition and collaborates with the Security of the State, the CCB, the FCCU and the Public Prosecutor. Defence offers expertise, supports investigations and maintains contact with the defence-related industry in the context of major incidents. The version 2.0 of the national Cyber Security Strategy Belgium was prepared on the initiative of the CCB and in consultation with all relevant actors, including Defence. The CCIV-Platform 4 Cyber, where both the CCB and Defence have a permanent representation, was mainly used as the main consultation platform to reach the final text. The planned evolution of current cyber capacity towards a cyber component will further develop the principles of this framework. The additional responsibilities assigned to Defence by the new National Cyber Security Strategy Belgium are complementary to the responsibilities that the other relevant national cyber actors will assume and fully compatible with this cyber space operations framework. The version 2.0 of the national Cyber Security Strategy Belgium is a revision of the first strategy published in 2012. This vision document sets out a national strategy that allows and promotes an integrated and coherent policy on future initiatives. The integration and coordination of existing initiatives takes place during the regular consultation of the CCIV Platform 4 Cyber. The creation of the cyber component will allow for a better implementation of the additional responsibilities assigned to Defence in the new National Cyber Security Strategy Belgium. As this is a strengthening of the role of Defence, there is therefore no immediate impact on the deadlines and timelines of both plans. The future European cybersecurity unit to which you refer is the common cybersecurity unit. The essence of this initiative is to ensure the availability of rapid response teams at the operational tactical level, and the provision of necessary support. This project is partly similar to the Cyber Rapid Response Teams (CRRT) of the Permanent Structured Cooperation (PSO) but has a much wider scope. The CRRT project focuses on the military aspect, while the common cybernetic unit also focuses on the civilian sector and includes elements such as cyberdiplomacy. However, this proposal will still have to be discussed at the European Council before the next steps can be considered. The impact of these projects on Defence is now very limited, as there is currently no active participation. First and foremost, we must have our own cyber capability, developed accordingly, in order to be able to contribute constructively to these international initiatives. For the moment, the FPS Foreign Affairs is in charge of this issue and will follow the discussions concerning it in the European Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u58	Madam Secretary, you say that preparations are under way. It is logical that this should not happen in an ill-thought-out way and in the short term. You subscribe to the NATO framework that exists for this and you cooperate with other partners within the recently adopted Belgian strategy. I think this is the right approach. We are looking forward to further concrete steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u59	Madam Minister, I welcome the cyberplan of the government and your fifth component, as well as the level of cooperation of Defence with the other departments. You say that everything will be complementary, but we have seen examples in the past where this is not the case. You say that the fifth component will be devoted to the protection of our systems. I think recent events have shown that this is not a luxury. I am thinking mainly of the hacking of Belnet and of the systems of the Federal Department of the Interior. The focus on cyber security is therefore a good investment, but I am asking myself whether it should be divided into a new, separate component and whether it would not be better to set up a large interdepartmental service. How will you in practice recruit those highly specialized profiles? You will have to compete not only with the other departments, but also with the private sector. It may not be easy for the Defense to recruit such profiles. I wish you every success in your search.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u60	Minister, my question was indeed somewhat different from that of my colleagues. Nevertheless, I have received the elements of the answer that I requested, namely that Defence participation is less in this European project. That is quite understandable, but I still wanted to make sure by asking this question. The primary responsibility will lie with the European Union, but also with the FPS Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u61	Madam Minister, the conflicts in Nagorno-Karabakh and in the Gaza Strip between Israel and Palestine once again show that offensive UAVs can no longer be thought of in modern conflicts. Our defence must fully subscribe to a strategy against the enemy deployment of such weapons. What is the current SHORAD capacity of Belgian defence? Plant defense SHORAD or VSHORAD capacity on the CaMo vehicles or on the future JLTVs, so the American jeeps? The strategic plan does not mention SHORAD. An accompanying presentation only states that VSHORAD, which was previously the Mistral capacity, was not sufficiently relevant in the future Defence deployment framework. Is Defense currently working on an update of that position on SHORAD and VSHORAD, for example in the context of the update of the strategic vision? My last question is out of date, so I'm dropping it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u62	Until 2017, Defense had a VSHORAD capacity based on the Mistral weapons system. The strategic vision for Defence of 29 June 2016 states that that capacity would be extinguished. The defence staff is indeed studying the reconstruction of ground-based air defence capabilities. However, I cannot anticipate the conclusions of the study on the updating of the strategic vision and of the military programming law and the possible re-launch of a ground-based air defence capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u63	Madam Minister, the strategic vision dates back to 2016. Meanwhile, we're 2021. China, cyber, drones: it's all things that barely appear in that text of 2016. Five years later, it's completely unthinkable not to talk about it. I expected the answer a little, because for everything there is reference to the strategic committee and the update of the strategic vision. I can't blame you either, it's logic itself. I remember that the matter will be dealt with. There's one thing we can't do. I remember General Gérard's New Year's speech on the re-launch of the Mistral. Let's not be too wrong to use a Mistral against drones and drones. We'll be able to shoot a lot of missiles. That technology is useful against certain threats, but we need to go to the integration of certain defensive systems into our upcoming CaMo. This must certainly be taken into account when updating the strategic vision and programme law. We'll have to take the French to see how it's installed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u64	Question No 55018384C by Mrs Vicky Reynaert is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u65	Minister, some defence secrets are the least well guarded in the world. I am not referring here to the reports of our intelligence services, but to the presence of American nuclear bombs in Europe, particularly on the basis of Kleine-Brogel in Belgium. However, this secret of polichinelle has been even more ventilated by American soldiers in charge of nuclear arsenals in Europe. Indeed, it appears that review cards used by these soldiers have been posted online since 2012, which has made it possible to disclose the exact location of the missiles and even if they were armed or not with nuclear warheads. On-line data sheets, it was even possible to find the passwords and user names needed to disable weapons security systems. Minister, this raises serious questions. Have you had any contact with our American allies on this matter? What assurances did they give you? Have any contacts been made with your counterparts in Turkey, Italy and Germany? How do they feel about these leaks? How can we be sure that bombs in Europe are sufficiently secure against possible ill-intentioned states, organisations and individuals? If the allies cannot guarantee the security of the sites and the impermeability of the information, is it appropriate to keep these bombs in Europe and therefore in Belgium? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u66	Mrs Reynaert is absent and can put her question No. So 55018384C do not set.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u67	Mr President, Defence was informed of a security incident at a High-Level Meeting on 11 May 2021. At that meeting our partners assured us that the research was ongoing, that there was no problem with the security of the bases on European territory and that the partners would be kept informed of the results of the research and of any additional measures to be taken. As in other cases, Belgium maintains bilateral and multilateral contacts with its partners in NATO and other intergovernmental organizations. In general, the security of our bases is considered sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u68	Thank you for those answers, minister, even if they are short. The presence of nuclear bombs on our territory and on other European territories inevitably leads to major security problems. I am not in favour of nuclear sharing, it is not a secret, but we must at least ensure that if we have bombs in other countries, they are at least properly secured by their owners. You're telling me you are. I'll take note of that. It's a matter of trust. Here, I dare not imagine what could have happened if the information on the Internet, which is accessible to everyone, had been used by people ill-intentioned towards us or the United States. It's simply hallucinating and it's unacceptable. We've been walking on a wire since 1945, since the nuclear bomb came into existence, and I think it would be a good idea not to play with scissors right next to that wire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u69	I thank the Minister for her answers. She assures us that, as a result of contacts with our partners, security seems to be assured. It is true that if there is someone who does not play with scissors, it is our minister. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u70	Madam Secretary, within the framework of a month's effort for corona, the staff of the hospitals in our country received an incentive premium. However, there is one hospital whose staff did not receive the bonus, namely the Military Hospital Queen Astrid in Lower Heembeek. They did not receive any premium, to the great disappointment of the staff who also made a significant additional effort during the crisis. The pay gap with the civilian sector is already putting pressure on the personnel situation. Madam Secretary, can you explain the issue of the incentive premium? Is it true that the necessary royal decisions had already been prepared and that the opinions were favourable, but that the Ministry refused the file anyway? What were the reasons for excluding the Military Hospital from the premium? How many staff members of the medical component and of the hospital in particular have already received aid to the Nation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u71	Ms Safai, the special incentive premium for hospital staff was provided by the government for those who worked full-time in a federal care institution between September and November 2020. Defence was not part of the financing arrangements decided on by the federal government. However, the Ministry of Defence drew up a draft dossier in line with the procedures for implementing the federal premium, but taking into account the military specificity, such as the reserve staff scheme and staff deployed in the state of national aid, a compensation system specific to the military environment. The conceptual file concerned an exploration of the possibilities, avoiding cumulation with the own compensation system. No royal decrees were drawn up and therefore no opinions were issued on them. In the end, Defence's medical personnel who have been deployed to combat COOVID-19 have received compensation on the basis of the compensation system specific to the military environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u72	Madam Minister, the premium is a federal measure and therefore applies to all sectors within the competence of the federal government. It is therefore very unfortunate that the incentive premium was not granted to the military staff of the Queen Astrid hospital in Lower Heembeek. I regret that and hope that a way will be devised to grant them the premium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u73	Madam Minister, a few months ago we heard from social media that the emergency department of the military hospital would be dripping water out of the ceiling. At the time, there was no general water pollution such as today. The military hospital turned out to be a rock in the surf during the attacks and the coronapandemic, but it's apparently in a terrible state today, if you can confirm the rumors. Can you confirm and indicate the incident? Can you also tell us what measures and investments are planned in the near future on the site of the military hospital and by extension in the medical component? What budget and what timeline will be drawn for this? What's the status of the new field hospital?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u74	The transformation of the military hospital to medical hub 2030 with an additional function as a national crisis hospital is currently being studied and may be incorporated into the current strategic vision. The hospital could therefore function as buffer capacity or overflow and would not operate as an independent hospital. To this end, partnerships may need to be established in the Brussels hospital landscape. In addition to the Brussels Iris hospitals, there will be talks with several hospitals and other health care institutions in the spacious area of Lower-Over-Heembeek. In addition, Defense is working on a major investment plan to renew and strengthen operational medical capabilities. With regard to the acquisition of the field hospital, the file includes two basic structures and a set of modules that allow the transformation of one of those structures into an extended structure. Defence already owns a large part of the equipment, allowing both the basic structure and the extensive structure to be deployed. Training with the new equipment can begin in 2022. Defence plans to purchase the rest of the equipment of the role 2 base in 2022. With regard to the infrastructure of the military hospital, on 9 June 2021, leaks were identified in some places at the level of the emergency service ceiling. It was not an external water infiltration, but the result of a blockage in the drain between the floors A+N and A+2. Several measures have been taken immediately. Shortly after the adoption of the facts, a professional certificate was submitted to the company with which the military hospital has a contract for the uncapping of pipes. Because of the nature of the drains and in order to reduce the risk of bursting during detachment by high pressure, it was necessary to call on a specialised company. A study is also under way to replace all drains in that part of the hospital in order to find a structural solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u75	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. For years there has been talk about the future of the Military Hospital Queen Astrid in Lower Heembeek. The audit carried out confirmed the feasibility of civil-military cooperation. The defence staff was also the lead to integrate the military hospital into the hospital network, in which all ordinary hospitals in our country work, without losing sight of the specificity of the military profession. Two working groups started working on a proposal from a hospital with a purely military and civilian part. After all the study work done in recent years, it is time to communicate openly about the options that remain and to make concrete decisions, which are crucial for the survival of the medical component. Recently, the collaboration between Defence and the relationship hospitals has been renewed in the Netherlands. We should certainly take a good look at this model and see how we can develop it for ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u76	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer with clarification of the incident and the follow-up, which consists in providing a structural solution to the problem. In the past, the medical component and by extension the military hospital have proved their added value. They therefore deserve the necessary resources, both in financial terms and in terms of staff. In my view, it would be advisable, because of the future of the military hospital and our medical component, to put good, transparent cooperation and interaction first. It is good that this is included in the actualisation of the strategic vision. We are following the dossier with due attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u77	Mr. Chairman, Minister, this question is somewhat out of date. However, perhaps you could let me know what was done in support of the Democratic Republic of the Congo during the volcanic eruption in Goma? Have there been any humanitarian flights? We will probably have the opportunity to come back to such issues as this in the context of the discussions on the elements of the resolution adopted by Parliament on cooperation between diplomacy, defence and development cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u78	Mr President, Mr Flahaut, since the volcanic eruption in Goma began, the FPS Foreign Affairs and Defence have been following the situation on the spot. On 28 May 2021, B-FAST launched a prudent planning process to identify and prepare the capabilities that would be necessary and, if necessary, engageable. I am thinking in particular of the water purification modules to which you referred in your written question. The current major engagement of various B-FAST actors on national and foreign soil, the co-vid vaccination situation of the identified personnel and the security situation on the ground unfortunately did not allow us to launch this B-FAST mission. However, Defence did not remain inactive and organized a flight to the disaster-stricken region to deliver humanitarian and basic supplies from associations of the Congolese diaspora and NGOs such as, for example, Oxfam Belgium, all gathered by the Embassy of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. As a first step, the equipment was transported to Kinshasa with an Airbus A400M. As this aircraft is currently unable to land in Goma for crew qualification reasons, a second C-130 aircraft also made the trip to the Democratic Republic of the Congo and made two rotations between Kinshasa and Goma to bring humanitarian equipment to good port. Civilian and military personnel accompanied the flights to ensure that the goods actually arrived at their recipients. In total, nearly 13 tons of humanitarian aid was channelled to the victims of Goma.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u79	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is with satisfaction that I learn that we have responded to the emergency and that B-FAST still exists. I also welcome the idea that this is undoubtedly the beginning of a renewed partnership with the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It may also bode well for the resumption of partnerships with other countries in the three Ds that we have highlighted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u80	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Defossé's 55018754C is hereby repealed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u81	Madam Secretary, the purple-green government is breaking the fight against fake news and deliberately spreading false information. However, in the information age in which we live, fake news also turns out to be a weapon. The influence of public opinion has always been a weapon of war, but with the emergence and furore of social media, that is even more a problem than before. Foreign powers are taking advantage of today's technologies to attack us with our own data and interfere in our democracy. That psychological warfare is called Psyops. I have the following questions for you. What is Defense doing today in the fight against Psyops attacks by hostile powers and groups that want to undermine our democracy? How and at what stage of training and preparation of operations will the necessary resilience be built up in our military? Has there been any knowledge of cyberpsyop techniques applied by foreign powers in relation to our country? If so, when was that established? By whom and how was that established? By what power was the campaign facilitated and in what context did the attack take place? Are such Psyops attacks a priority for the Defense Department? What is the government's position on Psyops? What steps is the government taking in the short term to translate that position into policy? What steps does the government take in the long term? What analysis software and how many analysts can Defense currently use to fight Psyops? How does the government prepare Defense for the upcoming evolution in artificial intelligence and big data analysis, essential in psyops? Does the Department of Defense now apply Psyops techniques itself, or has it done so already? If so, when, by whom, how, in what way and in what context?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u82	Mr Francken, the ADIV has a platform dedicated to the online foreign state and non-state information operations directed against Belgium, the EU and NATO. The reports that follow from the analyses are delivered to our internal and external partners. The platform has recently also been in charge of the HI-taskforce information operations which aims to have a Belgian strategy that enables us to respond to such foreign interference. As a function of the nature and type of operation, the participating personnel shall be sensitised by means of a specific briefing indicating the possible dangers in an understandable manner. The application of Psyops techniques by foreign powers was determined to a limited extent during the 2019 elections, but also during the covid pandemic and the subsequent vaccination campaign and the Conings case. This was established by the experts of the ADIV platform, in cooperation with other partner services, such as State Security. The detailed data relating to this action coordinated from abroad are classified. The communication of such details increases the risk of the counterparty gaining insight into how such actions are detected and combated by Belgium. This would undermine our protection against such actions. PSYOP attacks are important for the ADIV, as they may pose a potential threat to the security of the country. Five analysts are currently involved. The approach of fake news and the dissemination of false information is an effective priority. In addition, the Cybersecurity Strategy Belgium 2.0 was recently approved. This is an important step in the broader approach to cyber threats. In order to prepare Defense for the upcoming evolution in artificial intelligence and big data analytics, essential for Psyops, the experts will do the necessary to participate in the rapid evolution in this field. The use or non-use of PSYOP techniques by the Defense Department is classified information. So you understand that I cannot go into this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u83	Mr President, Minister, it is interesting. In the context of, among other things, the Jürgen Conings case, Psyops was used by foreign powers, that seems to me news, I have not read anything about it. I find that interesting. It also happened in the framework of the 2019 elections. So we are working on it, we have analysed it and we have also launched a counter-offensive. It's necessary. Sometimes it's out of my league, all that modern warfare. We just talked about SHORAD. I'm really amazed at what's already possible with drones and how it's all happening so fast. This is something new, too. Five or ten years ago, this was not known, but every possible attempt is being made to destabilise the democracies in the West. I'm really looking at that with big eyes. It's a lot out of my league, but it's a good thing we're working on it. It really has to be a priority. There's nothing like free elections in a country. Freedom and democracy are our most precious good. This year's 11 July speech was about freedom as a duty. A Russian intellectual, Bernaiev, who was exiled from his country long ago by the communists made this statement. He was put on the steamboat in St Petersburg and was never allowed to return to his country because he was an intellectual academic and freethinker, which is not liked in those countries. We need to work together on the battle and win this battle together, shoulder to shoulder. It is remarkable in itself that this has happened, even with the Conings case. This morning, at the hearing, I said that at the 11th of July in my congregation, where I am mayor, I was very much addressed at the Conings case. Many people, also really sensible people, have addressed me with the question of what really happened there. They didn't believe he was found there by the mayor on a mountain bike and thought he was shot. I always said it was, and there was no indication that that wouldn't be the truth. There's so much disinformation about it that a lot of people at least have doubts about that case. Some people don't believe it and some people wonder if we know the truth and ask if this isn't some kind of gang of Nivelles story. What's right? How will we ever know what really happened there? Apparently that disinformation works. Hopefully we can all fight that together. In this way, democracy and this institution are being undermined at some point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u84	Mr President, Minister, the Strategic Plan for Defence 2016-2030 includes an outsourcing policy on catering, facility management and monitoring tasks. That Strategic Plan is an integral part of the coalition agreement. A number of tender dossiers relating to the privatisation of the guard for four barracks are currently pending. Can you confirm that? The current state of these files is still unclear. There are also problems with catering and the KMS could no longer guarantee catering from 30 June onwards. Can you tell me more about that? What is the status of ongoing outsourcing projects and the termination of military contracts on security orders for barracks and the like, facility management and catering? Is it true that candidates who fail their entry tests will be used for tasks that would be outsourced, such as keeping watch?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u85	Mr. President, Minister, Defence announced the beginning of a new partnership between Defence and Sodexo in the barracks of Grobbendonk and Bertrix. This 10-year contract, worth EUR 40 million for the two barracks, includes outsourcing for integrated plant management services: catering, green space maintenance, cleaning, pest control, technology and building management, winter services, etc. Minister, what are the guarantees of sustainability of Sodexo's services? Does this contract meet the criteria of the national energy-climate plan? What are the commitments in terms of local, organic and seasonal products? What about plastic reduction? What about household and gardening products? Is a standard contract applied or is it negotiated district by district with the service providers? How many people will be engaged at these two sites to provide these services? Is the ten-year employment guarantee included in this contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u86	Mr President, in the following quarters the guard has already been outsourced: Oud-Heverlee, Steenokkerzeel, Langemark-Poelkapelle, Rocourt and the Campus Renaissance in Brussels. For Castle, Eupen, Elsenborn and Meerdaal the procedure is under way. Current planning does not provide for outsourcing of the guard to other quarters. In the following quarters, facility management has already been outsourced: Oud-Heverlee, Meerdaal, Elsenborn, Petit, Grubbendonk, Bertrix, Saffranberg and the Renaissance Campus in Brussels. Current planning provides for the further roll-out of the outsourcing of facility management of all remaining quarters of Defence. With the new facility management contract for the KMS, the current catering contract of the KMS will be taken over. A new catering contract will start this year at the Club Prince Albert. An earlier initiative to provide for the possibility of reorienting candidate-military personnel in the event of difficulties during their basic formation to hold positions was discontinued. Sustainability is an integral part of facility management contracts and bid evaluation. Outsourcing facility management contracts are designed to meet the criteria of the National Energy-Climate Plan by integrating management measures, complemented by investments aimed at improving the energy performance of buildings and reducing their consumption. With regard to the Grobbendonk and Bertrix neighbourhoods, Sodexo is committed to contributing to the reduction of Defence's energy consumption and to supporting its environmental efforts. For example, more than 80% of single-use plastic packaging and dishes have been removed in anticipation of EU legislation. Sodexo Belgium is committed to abolishing disposable plastic or replacing it with reusable or recyclable solutions by the end of 2022. Since 2019, blenders, straws and plastic bags have been banned in all military quarters. In March 2021, the frigid cutlery, plates and containers were added. Any other single-use plastic container – salad bowl or soup bowl, cup, etc. - will be phased out to achieve zero plastic by the end of 2022. Durable, reusable or recyclable solutions will be proposed to replace these products. For local, organic and seasonal products, agreements are signed with local partners – farmers and subcontractors. Fresh beef and pork are 100% Belgian, as well as half of the food supply. All fresh vegetables are seasonal and come from Belgian producers. In addition, special attention is given to the promotion of vegetarian alternatives and menus offering seasonal products as well, of course, as to the quality of the food offered. With regard to the cleaning of military quarters, priority is given to techniques that minimize the use of water and the use of suitable cleaning products. For green space maintenance activities, national and regional bans on herbicides apply. Physical or mechanical control techniques are recommended to avoid the use of chemicals. The specifications of each contract are based on a model model refined according to the specifics of the neighbourhood to which it refers. The evaluation of offers and negotiations shall take this into account. As part of the deployment of the facility services in Bertrix, Sodexo has so far engaged about ten employees under unspecified contracts. At Grobbendonk, there are currently about 15 indeterminate employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u87	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I will have to look at a number of specific points in the report. What is clear to me, however, and confirmed by you, is that a number of procedures are still ongoing. That is amazing, because the procedure and a number of tender dossiers have been running for some time. The procedure seemed to me to be completely over. She passed through IF. However, you continue to linger on a number of dossiers. You obviously do not want to launch new tenders for the privatisation of the guard either. The procedures for Castle, Eupen and Elsenborn are still ongoing. The problem is clear. At the moment, there is no staff left to do that watch. It is so bad at certain times that, when some units have to do their exercises on a site, they have to take people with them, to ensure the guard there. This is particularly regrettable when we see that the defence staff are already on the gums. At government level, people will not dare to make any decisions in this area. Apparently, there's a lot of disagreement in the government about a number of files. You also state on the KMS catering file that the catering contract will enter into force in 2021. However, what happens in anticipation? The previous contract was terminated at the end of June 2021. How does this happen on the premises? That is all very regrettable. When we see that outsourcing can certainly be an act of good governance for a number of tasks in the Defense Department and can provide some relief on the ground for the military, it is very regrettable that you continue to linger in the whole dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u88	Minister, Defence, like all administrations, like all departments of all levels of power, has an obligation of exemplaryness, and certainly in the face of the most serious threat to our society and to humanity, which we are already facing, that is to say, global warming. That is why every step, however small, is important. Speaking of this contract allows me to recall this objective. I'm glad to hear that this is one of your concerns, also for future contracts. We will, of course, continue to be interested in it. There's just one small question you haven't answered: are jobs guaranteed? Is there a commitment from Sodexo that jobs don't move? Even if these are indefinite contracts, as you said. Do they commit themselves, for ten years, not to go back, even if the contracts have been signed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u89	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u90	All right. Even if they are CDI, there will be no dismissals. I'm asking the question. All right, thank you!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u91	Madam Secretary, at the end of March, the World Heritage Institute announced that it wants to move the collection of the Gunfiremuseum in Brasschaat to Ypres. It is reported that Brasschaat City Council would free up a budget of 2.3 million euros to buy the site Gunfire from Defense. Madam Secretary, is there an agreement on the sale of the site Gunfire between Defense and Brasschaat? If so, what does that agreement mean? If not, why is there no agreement yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u92	The military domain of the Gunfirezone was disaffecated in mid-2017 and is therefore eligible for alienation. Since then the municipality Brasschaat has been consulted several times, who would like to acquire the site. The WHI has repeatedly contacted the municipality, but the municipality has not acted accordingly. This has been done at least three times, in particular in April, October and December 2020. In accordance with the arrangements I had made, I had a conversation with the mayor of the city, Mr. Jambon. He confirmed that the municipality of Brasschaat confirmed the purchase of the site in the form of a friendly expropriation for public use at the last municipal council session on 28 June. Further substantive discussions will now be held on the responsibilities and costs related to alienation. From now on, the municipality seems willing to develop a project around the artillery. I take note of this new state of affairs. Further contacts will be made to study this possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u93	Madam Secretary, thank you for the comprehensive answer. No doubt you are aware of the value of the Gunfiremuseum. That museum, maintained by numerous volunteers, houses a valuable collection of artillery pieces. No doubt you also know that next to the Gunfiremuseum is the collection of the Light Aviation. The entire history of the Belgian military aircraft system is exhibited there. I can and may say with some pride that the cradle of the military aircraft is in Brasschaat. If the municipality of Brasschaat can buy that site of 16 hectares, both the Gunfiremuseum and the Light Aviation collection can stay in their cradle.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u94	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 25 June, the Defence announced that a bomb attack had seriously injured a Belgian Blue Helmet in northern Mali. Fourteen others were also reported to have been injured. You also announced that his family was receiving assistance from social services and defence psychologists. Can you give us any news of the Belgian soldier injured and his state of health? What about the other soldiers injured in the attack? Was a particular nationality targeted or was MINUSMA in general? Can you explain the circumstances in which this attack occurred? Have they already been identified and has a response been organized? How many soldiers have been killed or injured since MINUSMA began? Does the number of attacks tend to increase or decrease in recent years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u95	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Defossé has already introduced the subject well and I shall now turn to the questions. What can you tell us about the state of health of the wounded Belgian soldier? Will a Belgian medical team visit the site? Will our soldier then be repatriated? What about the attack on peacekeepers in Mali? Do you have any details about this? Have the authors shown up in the meantime? Will this attack affect the follow-up to the MINUSMA mission? It goes without saying that your answers will be based on the publicity that is possible within the framework of our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u96	Mr President, Madam Minister, I, too, will come directly to my questions. What is the state of health of the injured Belgian soldier to date? Do you have any information on the attack (the perpetrators, the motivations, possibly the nationalities involved)? Is this type of attack recurrent for MINUSMA forces? Will this attack have any impact on the continuation of the UN mission and our involvement in it? Does Belgium intend, for example, to replace its repatriated soldier?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u97	Mr President, the Belgian soldier wounded in the attack on Friday, 25 June, was operated the same day at the MINUSMA Chinese hospital in Gao. The next day, he was repatriated to Belgium via German means. After a short hospitalisation in Ghent, he was able to return to his home on Sunday, 27 June. In the same attack, fourteen German soldiers were wounded. The most serious cases were repatriated on 26 June to Germany. It appears that the targeted German detachment of which the two Belgians were part was an opportunity target for the terrorist who carried out the attack. The classified details of this attack will be explained tomorrow morning at the Operations Monitoring Committee. On the morning of 25 June, a suicidal driver in an IED deliberately targeted the German detachment which had established a temporary base for the night in the vicinity of Ichagara, 140 kilometres north of Gao. The attack has not yet been claimed. The number of attacks has increased in recent years. Since the start of MINUSMA in 2013, the mission must deplore the loss of 247 soldiers, without any Belgian among them, fortunately. The latter attack has no direct impact on the continuation of the MINUSMA mission. The injured member will be replaced on 25 July and the mission will continue as planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u98	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'll be here in the morning to hear the rest. First of all, of course, I would like to extend my best wishes for recovery to our Belgian soldier but also to the fourteen German soldiers, hoping that they will be all right. So I note that there is an increase in attacks. The assessment is therefore not positive for this mission. Questions should be asked about the strategy to be followed in the region for the future. As this is my last question before the holidays, unless I am surprised tomorrow in plenary, I would like to wish a good holiday to the Minister, who has had a busy and shuddy end of year, like all of us. Good holidays to all members of the commission as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u99	Minister, thank you for these elements. We will have more information tomorrow. Unfortunately, I will not be able to be present given the change of schedule. All of this shows the importance of the proper training of our military. It must be emphasized that we are active in regions of the world that do not know peace because of terrorist acts. We are carrying out missions there to restore order. These missions abroad are useful and necessary. I also wish all those who have been injured by this attack a re-establishment. Happy holidays to everyone!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u100	Madam Minister, like my colleagues, I would like to extend my best wishes for the recovery of this soldier and the German soldiers who have been injured, some seriously as you have explained to us. This must make us, as well as our people, think about the fact that when we go on a mission abroad, there is always a risk. We tend to trivialize this and we have the impression that all risks are under control. However, when our soldiers leave to save democracy or to ensure the positions that allow people to pull themselves out of the interested or dangerous hands that want to take away any hope of living in a democratic and emancipated way, there is a huge risk for our soldiers. I am also thinking of all the families of these soldiers who are in difficulty or in danger. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u101	Madam Minister, this is a question based on information that has actually been known since 2016. According to a Pentagon report, the U.S. Air Force base in Chièvres in Hainaut, near the Daumerie barracks, has been polluted for a long time and increased concentrations of PFAS, including PFOS, have been found in soil samples and in water samples from the Dender. In these samples increased concentrations have been measured which, at least according to American standards, exceed health standards. These are PFOS levels of 84 and 94 parts per trillion at a maximum threshold of 70 PPT, respectively. It is striking that the Pentagon was already aware of this in 2016 and that from 2018 onwards guidelines have been issued to the staff of the U.S. Air Base to no longer consume drinking water but only bottled water, while the information on pollution in the Air Base has not been passed on in any way to the local authorities, let alone to the Walloon Government. This morning, during the debate on the Jürgen Conings case, we talked about the flow of information, but this was not the case. We also know, for example, that the fire-fighting foam used in exercises on these air bases also contains increased concentrations. There is therefore a very strong correlation and even a causal link between the presence of those military bases where that fire-fighting foam is used and the increased contamination with PFOS and PFOA in the ground and the water. That is no different in the case of Chièvres, which is why we want to obtain information from you. Have you been informed by the US authorities of this pollution on our territory, which has been known since 2016? Are these substances also used in other military bases in Belgium? Have tests been carried out to confirm the existence of other contaminated sites? Meanwhile, actuality has caught up with me, in the form of an article. It said that your colleague from the Walloon Government, Mrs Tellier, Minister for the Environment, had already contacted your cabinet and asked you to examine all the barracks in Belgium, to check whether the soil was contaminated and whether these fire extinguishers were used there. Can you give me an update?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u102	Mr De Vuyst, I am sorry, but I will reply in French, since the question was asked to me in that language, as it was last time in plenary. The management of the US Chièvres Base was transferred to SHAPE in 1967. Its operation, and hence its day-to-day management, has since been the responsibility of the United States Armed Forces. On 8 July, their Public Affairs Office issued a press release regarding the presence of PFAS in water samples collected in 2017. In this press release, it is stated that at the time, the findings had been communicated to the Walloon Water Corporation, their local drinking water supplier. SWDE confirmed that the water was in compliance with current standards. My services have no more information on water quality within this U.S. Defense operating base. Already in 2020, aware of the emergence of the problem of PFAS, Defence carried out on the basis of local investigations an overview of the military sites operated by Belgian Defence where contamination of soil and/or groundwater at PFAS could be present. This initial inventory needs to be refined and completed and will be used to conduct future surveys in consultation with relevant regional government departments. This is within the framework of the memorandums of understanding that Defence has concluded with the relevant regional public services so that Defence can implement its land management policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u103	Madam Secretary, thank you very much. I understand that there will be consultations and that there will be cooperation with the Ministry of Defence to see if there is any pollution in certain barracks on our territory. I didn't really get an answer to my question. You say the local drinking water company was aware. However, this information has not been passed on to the local government or to the cabinet of the Minister for the Environment. It never came to you or your predecessor, if I'm not mistaken. So it went wrong somewhere in the chain between the water company, the local government and the Walloon government, if I may translate it so freely. I think it has been absolutely established that the substances PFOA and PFOS are also present in the fire extinguishers. The research that has been ordered and is currently under way, in cooperation with the authorities of the municipalities where barracks are located and in the vicinity of air bases, can provide an answer as soon as possible on pollution. In the article you also said that you want to pass the results on to the Walloon Government as soon as possible. I would ask you to pass those results on to us as soon as you have them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u104	Madam Minister, I come back to you concerning the creation of a crèche on the basis of Florennes. The current absence of such a service often encourages qualified young women in technical or operational work to leave their workplace to request a transfer to a base or barracks with a facility for young children. In reply to my written question dated 2 March 2021, you stated that the study on the project to create a nursery on the basis of Florennes had been presented at the end of January 2021 to the Working Group Benefits@Defence. You also indicated that additional work had been requested by mid-March 2021 and that the final study would then be presented to you. Was the final study presented to you? If so, what does it show? What about the possibility of creating a crèche at the base of Florennes? Is it possible to have this study available? Today, are there OCASC reception facilities on other barracks or military bases? If so, where are they located? The commune of Florennes is currently working on a crèche project in connection with the base. Can you clarify whether you have been notified of any contacts that would have taken place between the municipality of Florennes and the command of the Base Offenberg in this regard? If so, what does it show?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u105	Mr Bombled, there are eight crèches of the Office Central d'Actions Sociales et Culturelles de la Défense (OCASC) in military quarters. These areas are located in Zeebrugge, Léopoldsburg, Puisie, Evere and Neder-over-Heembeek, Marche-en Famenne, Liège and Beauvechain. A study of the various benefits for staff was presented to me in the context of staff upgrading. This was therefore broader than the feasibility study of setting up a nursery at the base of Florennes. In coordination with the OCASC and in view of the costs of such a project, it was confirmed on 27 May that no nurseries would be opened there. On the other hand, two measures have been taken for staff and their families. The rules applicable to real property leased by the OCASC have been adapted so that child care can be organized there.This means in practice that the partner of a staff member who rents a home of the OCASC can decide to organize this activity at home. The responsibility to check whether the premises and reception conditions are adapted remains with the Kind organizations in Gezin and the ONE. A pilot project will then be launched in the second half of 2021. The OCASC will recruit an on-site contact person to map the childcare needs of base staff aged 0 to 12 and map the offer available in and around the municipality. This person will be responsible for establishing contacts with the local authority and will benefit from the support of the Central Administration of the OCASC. The OCASC has already developed a job description, identified appropriate pay and additional resources, and initiated a recruitment process. After an interim and final evaluation of the pilot project, it will be decided whether this project can be extended to all neighbourhoods in the territory where there is no OCASC crèche.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u106	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Although I regret that there are no nurseries on the basis of Florennes, I note that there are still alternatives and advances in this sector. Very often, young women qualified in technical or operational work are spread out from school to the various bases. When they approach a turning point in their lives to found a home, either they decide to move to another base that has a facility for young children, or they turn to a less productive function. This can affect the productivity of services and the integration of women into all basic services in a balanced manner. It is therefore very important that there is a solution to avoid such situations. I would like to point out that there is another sensitive aspect to the discussion. Nurseries are just as necessary for men as for women. However, it is often the non-military wife who is penalized professionally. This is why a crèche must provide outside access to the military base when there is a crèche on the base, which does not require a pass to allow the spouses of these soldiers easy access.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u107	Mr President, Madam Minister, we are concerned with weather news. Recently, Canadian news was marked by a heat dome with temperatures close to 50°C. This obliges us to anticipate the consequences of climate change. In three warm and windy days, the village of Lytton, located 250 kilometres northeast of Vancouver, dried up and was finally struck off the map by flames. To have been there, visually, the region looks a little like our Ardennes in much larger. Tomorrow, who knows, the instability of the climate caused by our CO2 emissions could move a dome of heat over Northern Europe and cause fires in us too. I say tomorrow, but I could also have said yesterday, because last year there were large forest fires in Sweden, a country situated very far north of Europe. When a heat dome arrives, it is too late to equip to fight the fire. So we have to be ready because governing is planning. Moreover, a Belgian start-up, Roadfour, has just presented its project of a large futuristic water bomber: the Seagle. The stated aim of this start-up is to offer a succession to the venerable Canadair that is widely used in Europe to fight forest fires but that comes at the end of life. In my view, it is up to Defence to invest in this type of national security and crisis equipment. Madam Minister, is the Belgian army planning to equip one or more such aircraft? If so, is the Seagle a study trail? Can the Army Procurement Service contact the Belgian company that produces the Seagle in order to make a study of the needs and also help our companies to create a new market?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u108	I confess I don't understand. In fact, firefighting does not fall within the competence of Defence. This is in the first instance a competence of the interior. The Defence has shown this again recently, it can provide support in the event of a crisis. It provides this support with existing capabilities, but without any specific equipment being purchased for this purpose. Defence currently does not have Canadair-type water bombers. This is not its primary mission and Defence is therefore not planning to acquire it at this stage. I am sorry to have to send you back to my colleague the Minister of the Interior who is in charge of the relief and security services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u109	Thank you, Madam Minister. At the coast, however, there were helicopters belonging to the Defense, which were based at Coxide. They were used for surveillance and assistance at sea. The context is therefore the same. I believe that National Defence has the necessary training and equipment capabilities. The idea of having centralized equipment such as this seems to me good. You will probably be called today to help the populations under the water, both in Campine and in the province of Liège. In such a situation, the army must have suitable equipment. It's too late to equip when evil is present. We have to do it first.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u110	Minister, on July 6, more than two months before the September 11 deadline for the full withdrawal of their troops from Afghanistan, the United States of America has already confirmed the departure of more than 90% of its troops, while its last soldiers will have left the country by the end of August, according to the White House. It must be noted that, reinforced by the departure of a majority of American troops and NATO forces, the Taliban have since May been multiplying their offensives against the positions of the Afghan army in many provinces, including around Kabul. The speed and ease with which the Taliban insurgents increase their area of influence is, of course, a very severe psychological blow to the Afghan authorities and, beyond that, to this population, which has been suffering an absolute martyrdom for more than forty years. Therefore, in addition to those who surrendered their weapons and surrendered to the Taliban, more than a thousand Afghan soldiers have already retreated to Tajikistan to save their lives after armed clashes with the Taliban, which, unfortunately, leaves the Afghan army afraid of a collapse. Minister, what about today's vital air support by the United States to the Afghan army, especially since the departure of their troops and NATO troops from the Bagram Air Force Base, the key centre of the international coalition's operations? What is the status of the withdrawal of other NATO troops from Afghanistan? I would remind you that NATO has stated that "the withdrawal of troops does not mean the end of our relationship with Afghanistan, but rather the beginning of a new chapter". Which one? We still have to write it down. How does the Alliance perceive this new chapter? What measures will NATO keep in place after the operation in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u111	Mr Lacroix, the decision by the Allies to withdraw their troops from Afghanistan has resulted in the vast majority of them, including Belgium, already leaving Afghanistan to date. Only the Commander of the Resolute Support Mission and a limited part of his staff are still present on the ground, in order to ensure the transition to a new mission, which will be carried out this time by civilians. It will support the Afghan Government in its efforts to maintain stability on the basis of the progress made in recent years. An example is the training and training of the Afghan Air Force. This air force is now seen as capable of carrying out the necessary air operations in support of the ground forces in the course of actions against the Taliban. Monitoring the allocation of adequate financial resources for Afghan security and defence, training and training of Afghan forces outside the national territory, and maintaining an international airport and an operational hospital will be the pillars of the new NATO civilian mission. To this end, a civilian representative of the Alliance will remain present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u112	This is the minimum service NATO can provide in this regard. I also asked your colleague in charge of foreign affairs yesterday. First of all, I reminded him that we could not let Afghanistan go and, above all, that we could not let the United States manage that situation either. Secondly, through our competences, which are no longer defence powers - but you play an essential role in the overall determination of our country's foreign policy - we must support all multilateral initiatives, particularly within the United Nations, to encourage an immediate ceasefire. On the other hand, we must stand alongside countries that want to find solutions, and especially with Pakistan, which, in my view, has an undeniable role to play in resolving the conflict. We must stand alongside the suffering peoples and the armies that support the efforts of these people by all the democratic means that are theirs. Thank you for the presentation of the solutions. They remain to be implemented or implemented in the coming days and weeks in order to maintain hope and hope in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u113	Mr President, Minister, following the appointment of Director General Jaupart, a strategic plan 2021-2025 was drawn up in the womb of the WHI. I have a few questions about that. What procedure was followed for drawing up the strategic plan? Who put this up? In what way was the Management Committee and the Management Board involved? Can you explain the content of the WHI's strategic plan for the distribution of finance, investment and staff? On what criteria does this distribution take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u114	A committee was entrusted by the Board of Directors in December 2020 with the preparation of a strategic plan for the World Heritage Institute. This committee consisted of the Director-General of the WHI, the Deputy Director-General AI, an expert from the WHI, the Personnel Director of my cabinet, the Commissioner, a member and the Chairman of the Management Board. This Committee submitted a draft text to the Management Board which adopted it unanimously on 17 June 2021. I have been informed of the content of the strategic plan during its drafting, but with due respect for the autonomy of this institution, it has been approved by the Board of Directors. It is therefore a strategic plan, in this case the first one, and not a restructuring. This new strategy identifies several plateaux and incorporates the dimensions related to the duty of memory and tourism development. The future distribution presented in the strategic plan is highly balanced and adds value to all WHI sites. Its central site is still in Brussels. It cannot be ruled out that the guidelines evolve according to the circumstances. However, as this report has been approved by the Board of Directors, it is normally no longer expected to evolve. The "topstukken" decree is indeed likely to affect the pieces of federal collections. However, we draw members' attention to the fact that their ownership is not affected in any way. Furthermore, at the end of Article 6, § 3 of the Decree, the consent of the institution is required to include in the list of protected heritage all property which has not been in the territory of the Flemish Community for more than 30 years. It also seems to us important to make it clear that the Flemish Community is not the only one to have such a decree allowing the transfer of museum pieces to its territory. The risk analysis concerned the decree "topstukken" and the parts of the Ypres and Brasschaat sites, and it is therefore the same as for all other parts managed by the WHI. The WHI relies on respect for the principle of federal loyalty to the government collections managed by the WHI, which is a federal institution rooted throughout the country. The collections are the property of the federal state and the WHI determines where it establishes and stores them. The strategic plan does indeed include a financial aspect. The estimated investment of EUR 3,348 000 will be distributed in a balanced manner between all sites. In addition, the buildings of the Royal Army Museum will be renovated as part of the future federal plan Cinquantenaire 200. Each WHI site, including the Royal Army Museum, is intended to have a site manager, who reports directly to the Director of Site Management. It is also intended that a number of military personnel will be seconded by the Defence Department on a voluntary basis and under certain conditions in order to strengthen staff on the sites. Finally, the reception team of the Royal Army Museum is also to be strengthened. The distribution is based on the study and considerations of the competent committee taking into account the reality and specific needs of each site. This ensures a balanced and fair distribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u115	Many reservations were expressed about the procedures followed. Despite your answer, you do not offer much comfort in that regard. You would give a total of EUR 3.3 million, but so far you have had little or nothing to say about the actual distribution of these funds and we remain in the dark for the time being. The whole strategic plan is beginning to reveal the true nature of the Jaupart-Dedonder-Flahaut plan. Earlier this year we saw the harbinger moving the C-130 to Bevekom. That was a first step and that policy is being pursued in the plan. That's well known. It's really PS politics as it used to be. The main priority for the government is to clear out the aviation hall of the KLM and the new future that lies mainly in Bevekom. Ypres then apparently serves to keep the Flemish satisfied and quiet. Madam Minister, we are Flemish nationalists and also regionalists, but it cannot be the intention that the regionalisation of the federal military historical heritage proposed here will in practice mean one-way traffic to Wallonia. I fear that will happen all of this and tough, camouflaged and anything but transparent. You say that everything, financial resources, investments and staff will be distributed in a balanced way. Perhaps that is the case for the real estate, but certainly not for the collections and the masterpieces. So there are pertinent questions that remain unanswered. Until recently it may have been claimed that the Flemings wanted to transfer the national heritage to Flanders, but apparently the opposite is happening with the strategic plan. These are hidden transfers from our military historical heritage to French-speaking Belgium. The Flemish Interest cannot, of course, agree to this. Regionalisation must be carried out in accordance with fair criteria and not unilaterally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic557x.u116	Debates of the European Parliament I have been withdrawn from the hearing this morning in the light of the replies from General Boucké and the Chairman of the Committee I. Ladies and gentlemen, that is how we arrive at the end of our sitting. All the questions have been dealt with. I want to thank everyone for their input. We have had an intensive year. Undoubtedly, the next parliamentary year will be another fascinating year, not least because the actualisation of the strategic vision is on the agenda. I wish everyone a pleasant summer recess. Hopefully we won't see each other again too soon, because it's usually not a good sign if we get an early meeting.
