ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me offer you my best wishes for this new year, which we wish much better than the previous one. The minister will answer your questions on Friday as part of a topical debate, but we now come to the agenda, the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u2	Good afternoon colleagues, also my best wishes to everyone. Minister, ladies and gentlemen who have been in the Chamber for some time now know that cystic fibrosis is a file that often comes back, unfortunately partly with the same questions. I feel that there is another time when patients are asking questions, especially about the reimbursement of medicines that can give them more quality of life. Mucoviscidosis is one of the most common life-threatening diseases in our country. It is an innate, hereditary disease that causes abnormally tough mucus at the level of the lungs, the stomach, the intestines, the liver, the pancreas and the genital organs. The latest figures show that more than 1,300 patients have problems such as respiratory infections, pneumonia, mucus that is difficult to cough up, digestive problems and liver impairment. Until 2016, the treatment of cystic fibrosis mainly consisted of alleviating disease symptoms and preventing further deterioration. However, new medicines have been on the market for a number of years now, the so-called CFTR modulators, which provide hope for many patients. After all, this new class of medicines no longer works symptomatically, but can also work disease-modifyingly. They also have a very positive effect on lung function, slow down the decline, reduce the incidence of disease and greatly improve the patient's quality of life. In 2016, Orkambi was released by producer Vertex. The Belgian State then negotiated, also in the context of the Benelux countries, its repayment. Those negotiations have come to an end, but the Netherlands has continued to do so and since 2017 the medicine has been available to cystic patients, while in our country this is still not the case. Two years later, the same producer also brought Symkevi on the market, which mainly provides a solution to some fourteen additional mutations. It is not about small groups, because medicines can greatly improve the quality of life from 46 to 55% of the 1.319 mucopaths. Even though the EEA has given the green light to both medicines, there is unfortunately no agreement yet on the reimbursement in our country and therefore no access to them. Since 2019 there has been a total new drug from the same producer on the market, in particular Kaftrio. This works in a different way and can improve the quality of life of as many as 62% of patients. A lot of patients with mucous membranes have hoped for this. The EEA has also given the green light to this medicine. Patients from the United Kingdom, Germany and, I believe, Denmark already have access to this medicine. Vertex has not yet offered it in our country, so the procedure for reimbursement cannot yet be initiated. Since 2015-2016 I have seen this file come back several times. It's gonna last. Although I understand the secrecy and the procedures to be followed, as the procedures have been running since 2016, patients have been waiting for four years. In the newspaper you may have read testimonies of patients who are considering moving permanently to the Netherlands to have access from there to medicines that are not available in our country. It has been said for some time that the end of the procedure is in sight, but there is still no clarity. Minister, how are we doing today with the reimbursement of the funds Symkevi and Orkambi? In order to avoid experiencing a journey like Kaftrio, I also ask you if we are aware and ready to conduct the conversations and offer solutions to the 1,319 patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to be as concise as possible and to respect the speaking time of two minutes. This will allow us to address as many questions as possible and obtain as many answers as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u4	Mr Minister, Mr Muylle has introduced the CFTR modulators. The problem has been around for a long time. In particular, I think this is important because mucovisciosis is an orphan disease that really suffers many patients. I think we need to find a solution to this cluster of medicines that prove their efficiency and that can prolong the patient's life and have a positive qualitative impact, which can limit additional therapies. I therefore have further questions, on top of those of Mr Muylle. What about the pharmacodynamic analysis of the CFTR modulators? Is it not possible to obtain a refund of the cluster on the basis of this? The fact that Kaftrio has not yet been discussed here is a justified remark by the colleague, but it is actually a composition of the different preparations. I therefore believe that we must be forward-looking. The Muco association is very well structured and is advised by many doctors. It may be a good idea to consult with the doctors of the Muco association and see which targets are needed to develop a pay for performance for the CFTR modulators. Have you had any further discussions with the Muco association on this matter recently? If so, how did this consultation proceed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u5	Mr President, Minister, because of the health crisis of the Covid-19, it results in a multitude of impacts on our health care. Many operations had to be postponed, with serious consequences for some of the patients with cystic fibrosis. To help them, a drug seems promising enough, given the clinical results already listed: Trikafta. The latter has been marketed on the US market since last year. Unfortunately, it is still not available in our territory, as it has not yet been approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA). Last May, an initiative was taken by the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) as part of the Compassionate Use Program. As you know, it can make unapproved treatment available to patients in critical situations, especially when they are on a waiting list for transplantation. This decision is important because it represents an emergency solution for these patients. It should be noted that it does not apply to all people with cystic fibrosis. However, we are reminded that many patients are waiting for this medication, which could be a real relief for many families. Minister, have your services been solicited by patient associations? What are the requests made to the government? What answers have you been able to give them? What is the status of the procedure for marketing this medicine in our territory? Do you have any additional information to inform us about the recognition procedure introduced with the European Medicines Agency? What stage are we at? How many patients were able to use this treatment as part of the compassionate use program? Could you confirm that the decision taken will remain valid until approval by the European Medicines Agency? Finally, what initiatives can already be taken to extend the use of this treatment to help patients with cystic fibrosis, who are already suffering seriously from the health crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already spoken very extensively. Basically, it's about giving perspective to the cystic patients. I would like to refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u7	Mr President, Minister, the other Members have already been very full in their questions. I have two further questions on the whole file. Firstly, I realise that the cost we are talking about here is very high, in particular the cost of expensive and innovative medicines for more than a thousand patients who could benefit, as Mrs Muylle has pointed out. However, is the quality of life of these patients also taken into account when making the calculations? After all, if I listen carefully to patients and their experiences with these medicines, then I hear that they or a very large part of them could work if they could use those medicines. In this case, they cost less to society and they can even contribute to society. How does it work? Is the quality of life of patients also taken into account? Secondly, if I have followed the debate on the high price well, although I do not follow the dossier as far as Mrs Muylle is concerned, then the high price is really at the root of the disagreement. Are there any other thresholds? What additional thresholds are there, for example in comparison with the Netherlands, which means that the dossier is not progressing here and in the Netherlands it is? As Mrs Muylle points out, we want to give them a glimmer of hope when we hear from a lot of patients that they are at the end of their Latin waiting for those medicines. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u8	This is an up-to-date debate. If someone who has not asked questions on the subject, wishes, he or she can of course complete and intervene. Mrs Fonck, I note that you wish to speak at the time of the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I would very much like to join the questions. Almost everyone in his neighborhood knows someone who suffers from cystic fibrosis. It is a common but also life-threatening, hereditary disease, for which there are a number of medicines, which some members have also mentioned. However, the negotiations on reimbursement have been very difficult for a number of years. As a result, Belgian patients still do not have access to, for example, Orkambi and/or Symkevi, as opposed to many of the surrounding countries. Since somewhere in the second half of last year, the European Commission has given the green light for the marketing of Kaftrio, which seems to be a promising medicine. It is already available in a number of European countries such as the United Kingdom and Ireland. Why is there no agreement for the reimbursement of Orkambi and Symkevi at this time? Are there any negotiations on the marketing of Kaftrio? Is there any idea if this is as promising as it looks? Maybe it's an option to view this within the BeNeLuxA collaboration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u10	Mr President, I will answer the various questions together. A reimbursement procedure is currently in progress with the Commission on Medicines for both Orkambi and Symkevi. As these CTG procedures run, it is unfortunately not possible to provide you with more detailed information, as this could jeopardise the proper conduct of the reimbursement procedures. This applies not only to Orkambi and Symkevi, but also to all the files subject to the reimbursement procedure. As far as the timelines of the Orkambi and Symkevi files are concerned, I cannot give you any more specific information, but I can tell you that the RIZIV administration continues its activities to the maximum, despite the many additional efforts requested during this COOVID-19 crisis. I will make a decision in these files in due course. I can tell you that the course of the CTG procedures initiated for Orkambi and Symkevi depends, among other things, on the evaluation of the committee and the willingness of the company to propose a price that is socially acceptable and proportionate to the therapeutic value of the medicinal product. I would also like to make it clear that the reimbursement procedure and the possible negotiations on more than just the price go hand in hand. Issues such as therapeutic value, efficacy and impact on mortality, morbidity and quality of life, budgetary impact and the importance of the speciality in medical practice are also taken into account. A health economic analysis is also part of the procedure for medicinal products for which the company claims an added value. We want to go to the limit of our ability to make these medicines available to patients, but this must be done with proper compensation. This applies, moreover, to all medicinal products for which a fee is charged. This must therefore be done in a sustainable way, which means that we must use the budget carefully. We must avoid spending a large part of the available budget on a few medicinal products with a limited effect, which means that we would not be able to repay other medicinal products with a higher therapeutic value at a socially acceptable price. However, as mentioned above, I cannot give details about Orkambi or Symkevi, since the procedures are still ongoing. As regards the previous procedures, I can tell you that the company's file in 2016 was not sufficiently substantiated to enter into negotiations. The procedure was then stopped by Vertex. In 2017, the working group that conducted the negotiations on Orkambi with Vertex concluded that the available data, in particular the lack of strong evidence of clinical efficacy, were not sufficient to include the Orkambi speciality in the list of recoverable proprietary medicinal products for the net cost, as proposed by the company under a confidential agreement. The previous Minister for Social Affairs followed the advice of the working group and the specialty Orkambi was therefore not included in the list of recoverable proprietary medicinal products. A negative decision was also taken in the Netherlands at the time. The relatively modest effects of the medicine were not proportionate to the high price demanded by Vertex. However, other regulations allowed negotiations with the company to continue in the Netherlands, while the company had to submit a new application in Belgium. In July 2018, a new application for Orkambi was submitted by the pharmaceutical company Vertex. The application was withdrawn by the company itself in mid-2019, which meant that the procedure was stopped again. Decisions on reimbursements are national powers, with each country applying different criteria, which fit within the specific national social security system. Within the BeNeLuxA initiative and with other European countries, there is a lot of consultation, including on the willingness to pay for certain medicines. However, information about confidential details is not known to us. It is the companies that maintain this confidentiality and make negotiations with the various authorities considerably more difficult. If the manufacturer Vertex is now willing to offer a price that is socially acceptable in Belgium, the current decision can be reviewed. I can also tell you that there is an approved medical emergency programme for Orkambi in place for cystic patients aged 6 to 11 years with a specific genetic mutation. For more information, please refer to the website of the FAGG. The medicinal product marketed in Europe under the name Kaftrio and in the United States under the name Trikafta by the firm Vertex was authorised by the European Medicines Agency on 21 August 2020. The reimbursement procedure has not yet been submitted to INAMI by Vertex. It is true that we have received several inquiries concerning this product, to which the AFMPS responded specifically. With respect to access requests, in the absence of commercialization, we have proposed two solutions. Access to the medicinal product is in particular possible through the application of Article 105 of the Royal Decree of 25 April 2014 amending the Royal Decree of 14 December 2006 on medicinal products for human and veterinary use, which states that imports from a country where the medicinal product is authorised are marketed in the strict sense of the text. There is also a compassionate use within the meaning of Article 6c(1), (2) of the Law of 25 March 1964 and its Royal Implementing Order, as revised on 25 April 2014 on medicinal products for human and veterinary use. To date, patients with cystic fibrosis and with specific mutations aged 12 years and older who are in urgent need of treatment may have access to Kaftrio in Belgium via two compassionate use programmes. The first was approved on June 25, 2020 for homozygous patients for the F508del mutation. The second was approved on 24 November 2020 for heterozygous patients for the F508del mutation with minimal function mutation. The programs will be re-evaluated in the course of 2021. We do not yet have the number of patients included in each of these programs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer, within the limits of what you can answer. It's gonna take an incredibly long time. In 2010 the entire committee has been a muco patient for a day. We then took the medications in placebos that are taking muco patients. I took a full day of mucopills until I really couldn't do it anymore. There were dozens of them. Today, a large proportion of patients are still treated in the same way and with the same medicines. That's ten years later. You explained and defended your file well. We support a great deal of what you have said. Many complex conditions must also be met and different aspects must be considered in such a procedure. In your reply you give the impression that the social cost of what is proposed to Belgium would not be justified in relation to the added value of the medicine. It's weird that there's another problem out there. All Western European countries, with the exception of Norway, Belgium and Portugal, will pay back Orkambi today. Are those prices down there? You don't think you can see that. Are the procedures in these countries so much more flexible as regards access conditions that agreements can be reached? It remains very difficult for patients to explain that there are three countries that are lagging behind in Europe in the reimbursement of a medicine. You indicate that you do not sit still, even in corona times. Your services and staff will continue to work on that file as much as possible. Hopefully they will continue to do so and will be able to find a solution, including for Kaftrio. You have outlined the access and possibilities for the latter well. Indeed, we need to work together with BeNeLuxA to see if we can work together. For them there is a perspective, within the limits of our legislation, of course. The process has taken a very long time, and we have lost a lot of people at that time because we did not have access to medicines. Hopefully there will also be a sparkle of hope for them in 2021 for both procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I agree with you when you say that we must use the budget for medicines carefully, but we must also monitor the accessibility of our medicines to our patients. When I hear you say that the social costs are high, I would nevertheless like to mention the social costs of one cystic fibrosis patient per year in kinesi therapy and hospitalisations and the pharmacodynamic analysis that I have not heard you mention. If so many other European Member States go to reimbursement, they will have done that pharmacodynamic analysis, and I am very sorry that some of our patients have to move to another Member State in order to get that refund. One in 3,000 Belgians born can develop cystic fibrosis. That is quite a lot, and I believe that the broad social security for which you nevertheless stand obliges us to find out the substance. That can't last years and years. Those patients can't keep waiting. I think it is particularly important to refer again to BeNeLuxA, while in the Netherlands there is already a refund. I repeat what I said this morning. At the moment, there is only one medicine that is repaid in this way, so a dossier that drags on for so long and for which the Muco association has provided so much resources to prepare for that decision deserves better than a referral to Europe. You rightly indicate the compassionate use programs and the medical need programs, but you know, as we all know, that this is not the sustainable solution to a problem that is more frequent than we sometimes realize. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the motion for a resolution tabled by my group on orphan medicinal products and diseases, which contains a number of tips.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will come back to you with questions about the future work to be done to meet the expectations of people with cystic fibrosis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u14	Mr President, Minister, it is important that your cabinet retains this urgency. Hopefully you will soon be able to give good news to those suffering from mucositis, because it is not obvious to them that the refunds are in order across the border. I have heard you refer to Europe, and I hope that a solution can also be found at European level. Until then, however, we must continue to follow up on this dossier, so that we can hopefully quickly find a solution for all those patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u15	Mr President, Minister, I have already heard it from the Muco association: this is indeed a dossier for which several applications have already been made. However, I cannot get rid of the impression from your reply that it is almost a game of poor wrestling between the European Union and the producer. You say that Vertex must offer a price that is socially responsible. I understand that. However, I feel that this is to the detriment of the patients. Those patients suffer every day. The company bears a lot of costs for them, but they also bear a lot of costs themselves. I feel like it's a game of arm wrestling to the detriment of these patients. I hope, along with you, that these negotiations can land somewhere in the middle and that after so many years there will be an answer and hope for those patients, because they really need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u16	What Mrs Muylle and Mrs Creemers have said is justified in itself. Orkambi is not reimbursed in three European countries. Belgium is there. As you have said, Minister, we cannot know why, but it is likely that the cost, because we are a small country, will have something to do with that. We shouldn't be naive about that. So I would like to reiterate my call for more international cooperation. I don't understand the flag symbolism of some people. Why would we even want to negotiate by region? Only cooperation can make us stronger. Only in this way can we give answers to the patients who are now standing in the cold and who see that there is a refund in other countries. In some cases, they even consider moving to another country, only for medical reasons, in order to keep their disease affordable. So let us work together internationally and hope that we can provide faster access in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u17	In short, Minister, you say you do not agree with the firm at this stage! I will bring two points of reflection. Firstly, would a European approach to negotiations in this type of medicine have been ideal? The answer is yes. However, it is too late, because Belgium is one of the only European countries that has not yet authorised reimbursement. I agree with you about other medicines, but in this case it is too late. You have to come up with a deal. On the other hand, your answer is terrible for patients, for the families of small children, for whom a diagnosis of cystic fibrosis has been made, but also for the Muco association, because it is a non-response. In addition, you do not open up any perspective and you do not give any hope. For the patients concerned, your answer is terrible, because it does not address the quality of life aspect for these patients. And when you talk about the price and cost of social security, you should also remember how a drug, which improves the ventilatory capacity to prevent more infections, hospitalizations, lung transplants, represents a significant budgetary gain. I hope, minister, that you will not remain on today's note, which, I repeat, is disastrous for patients but that you will deliver a note of hope for the future. You have no choice and you have to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the topical debate on this terrible suffering. I join colleagues in stressing the importance, Minister, of making every effort to calm this situation. And we can do this through a policy of reimbursement of the drug. I can therefore only relay what has been said by my colleagues: to bring this refund as quickly as possible and to make it a reality for all those who are, today, in a suffering that they have to endure on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u19	Mr President, what progress has been made with the amendments to the Royal Decree No. 1885, which still need to be published? What about the mandatory traceability of the medicinal product from the delivery to the patient's bed? What does the KB say about the use of unidoses and the packaging form? Is there talk in the KB about closed loop medical management? What steps will you take? Have you heard all the parties involved? When is the publication expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u20	Mrs Depoorter, I will deal with the various elements of the question one by one. The first concerns compulsory traceability. The Royal Decree of 30 September 2020 was still prepared and signed by my predecessor, Mrs De Block. The aim is to improve quality, including standards for the preparation and sterilization of medical devices, and to modernise the legal provisions of older regulations, including the keeping of registers, the registration of hospital pharmacists and options in a formalised partnership. The traceability of the products delivered must indeed be guaranteed in the future up to the patient level. The pharmacist shall keep records, such as patient and medicinal product identification and lottery numbers, in a register as provided for in Article 27 of the Royal Decree. All details to be entered in that register are set out in Article 29 of the Royal Decree. For each product delivered, the following information shall be entered in the register: the date of delivery, the identification of the prescriber, the identification of the patient, the identification of the product and, in relation to the medicinal product, the unique identifier, the quantity delivered and the lot number. As provided for in Article 31 (1) of the Royal Decree, the pharmacist shall draw up a schedule for the patient listing all the medicinal products and others to be used. That schedule shall contain the name of the product, the patient's administrative data, the dose to be administered, the pharmaceutical form, the method and timing of administration and the duration of treatment with the product concerned. In addition, according to Article 31 (2) the hospital pharmacist is obliged to keep a patient's pharmaceutical record in which the dosing schedule should be included in addition to the home medication. What is the Royal Decree on the use of unidoses and the packaging form? The unit pack is defined in the draft text in Article 1, 24° as an appropriate package of one unit of a medicinal product in a unit container intended for administration to the patient. This means that each unit of a medicinal product, e.g. one tablet, is packed separately and that several medicinal products are not in the same unit pack. The hospital pharmacist delivers the medicines as far as possible in the form of unit pack. If the medicinal products are not placed on the market in a unit pack, the pharmacist shall, if possible, prepare the unit pack in accordance with Article 13. Chapter IV of the draft text further describes how this should be done. The quality standards set out in the European BIG/S are also imposed for this activity. In the royal decree, closed loop medical management is indeed imposed on the hospital pharmacist. Annex 1 of the Decision requires the hospital pharmacist to have up to 100 % traceability and identification of the product, including the medicinal product, from purchase to use in the patient. The different stages in the process are as follows: the purchase, receipt, central storage, validation of the medical prescription, preparation of the medication, delivery, emergency cabinets, transport, reconstitution, addition to an infusion fluid and plating of medicinal products including the organisation of a distribution pathway, withdrawal and follow-up of medication. What steps still need to be taken? The competent administration, the FAGG, has informed me that the Royal Decree has been consulted with the professional organizations of the hospital pharmacists. The Royal Decree was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 24 December 2020. I will, of course, have the content and impact evaluated as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u21	The decision has been published, which is good news. It's been a long time. You're talking about the pharmaceutical patient file. For the evaluation, the pharmaceutical patient file could be linked to the shared pharmaceutical file, which can be accessed by the home pharmacist, so that the medication review carried out by the home pharmacist can also be done on the basis of all medication that is started and stopped, if necessary, in the hospital. It is very important for interactions and the patient's follow-up to have a view on the medication that is started in the hospital for the home pharmacist.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u22	Mr President, Minister, my question follows Professor Gillet's hearing in Special Committee on Covid-19 on 27 November, in his capacity as representative of the KCE. On this occasion, he stressed that: "In future crises, the coordinating role of the authorities could be strengthened, for example by drawing up lists of available staff (based on their expertise) to be sent to the field as needed, coordinating and harmonizing accelerated training programmes, establishing a follow-up of sick leave." I was surprised to learn that there is no cadastre for health care personnel who can be called on to back up, in particular in this crisis management. I asked the professor about this. He confirmed that this was a significant deficiency. I agree with that. Such a list would make it possible to manage the shortages of nursing staff as best possible, rather than by taking the measure of delegating nursing to unqualified personnel. This measure is strongly criticized by the industry, to the point that it calls for the outright withdrawal of your law. You know that an action for annulment is pending before the Constitutional Court. You will probably tell me that PlanCad reports exist and that they collect data on health care professionals. Except that this is not a cadastre as such, but the result of a rather tedious work of linking data from several sources: the Federal Bank of Health Care Professionals (Cadastre), INAMI, the Datawarehouse Labour Market and Social Protection. Only this work, carried out on an ad hoc basis and not on a permanent basis, finally offers a description of the activity of nurses according to their age, sex, region, diploma, sector of activity or professional status. Minister, why does a permanent cadastre for nurses not yet exist, when it is known that there are qualified personnel who have left the profession or are in less urgent positions than pandemic care, and when there is a detailed cadastre for doctors? Is this list on the agenda, as also requested through a motion for a resolution tabled by your majority partners? It was to be examined this morning, but it will be in the coming weeks. Can you also tell me when the last match for nurses was made? Why has it not been achieved more frequently? Finally, who should be responsible for establishing such a cadastre and, above all, updating it? Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u23	Thank you to Mrs Rohonyi, who is particularly fit at the beginning of the year, since she asked a very long and detailed question. We hope that our minister will be able to respond in detail as well, and in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u24	Dear colleague, there is currently only one cadastre, that of professionals in the right to practise. In order to ascertain the activity of a profession in the labour market, the Planning Commission carries out statistical studies which allow to know in detail the situation of the activity of a profession in the Belgian labour market. This work exists for dentists, midwives, logopeds, physiotherapists and nurses. The latest study for nurses concerns 2017 and is available on the Commission's website. This commission also works on the historical perspective of nursing activity from 2004 to 2018. This work is being finalized and is expected to be available on the site by March. The Commission will then carry out scenarios of the evolution of the labour force on the basis of its mathematical model. I will, of course, follow this work very carefully. However, this work is obtained via a pseudonymized coupling between SPF, INAMI and Bank Carrefour Labour Market and Social Protection data. We therefore do not have the nominative list of active professionals. In the context of the crisis, we obtained recent and minimal nominal data, but we only have information on whether or not they were active in the distribution of protective equipment for active and outpatient personnel. However, my administration is working to have a permanent and complete list of these professionals. The Quality of Practice of Health Care Act of 22 April 2019 provides for a register of practices which should, in the long term, make it possible to establish, for each health professional, whether he is active or not, and the sectors in which he is active.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u25	Mr Minister, you say that we have a cadastre for health care professionals who are entitled to exercise, including nurses, but you are also telling me that we only have data that dates back to 2017, as I was able to see on the Internet. As a result, the only data available is only at the end of a coupling work, i.e. a rather tedious task that demonstrates that there is no cadastre that allows us to closely monitor the availability of nurses. You are telling me that we have information on which nurses are active and which therefore require protective equipment. On the contrary, I remember that last April, the nurses told us that many of them were unable to receive their protective equipment and masks from the communal administration because they were not included in the list of providers - a completely obsolete list - even though they presented their INAMI number, which certified their status as a nurse. I therefore believe that we are faced with a situation which could happen again and which does not have to happen again, both for the working conditions of nurses and for the quality of care to be provided to patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u26	Minister, my question concerns the reduction of premature births. The Free Mutualities carried out a comparative study on the details of hospitalisations by service between 2019 and 2020. Unsurprisingly, there has been a significant decrease in hospitalizations in diagnostic and surgical services, in the treatment of large burns, in paediatrics, and in intensive and non-intensive neonatal care. While hospitalizations resumed during the summer in many sectors, it is surprising that they did not resume at the same rate, either during the summer or in the fall, in the premature sector with a decrease of 80% compared to hospitalizations for the same causes in 2019. Minister, can we hope to see, in this impressive decline in the number of children born before the end of the day, the consequences of a less stressful life, probably linked to telework, reduced travel, reduced activities involving a standing station, falling pollution in the city, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Do you have statistics and studies in this context? Are analyses envisaged in order to be able to highlight the factors that positively influence the duration of pregnancy in the long term and, therefore, the reduction of premature births?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u27	Mr Rigot, it is with interest that I am aware of the reduction in premature births reported by the study service of the Free Mutualities following the lockdown. These data should be confirmed at the national level, either at the level of national population statistics (Statbel) or at the level of the minimum hospital summary (MHR). I must say that it is very likely that they will be true because this phenomenon is observed in other countries. Several confinements around the world coincided with a decline in the number of premature births, particularly among our neighbours in the Netherlands – it was published in The Lancet Public Health in November – but also in Ireland, Denmark or Australia. This finding calls upon scientists who, as you mentioned, point to a reduction in contact with pathogens due to the introduction of barrier gestures, isolation, repeated hand washing, a reduction in work and home-to-work stress, and a decrease in air pollution. A decrease in induced prematurity is also mentioned. During confinement, there were fewer consultations that could have resulted in induced births. Up to 50% of premature births are the result of a medical decision as in an intrauterine growth retardation with, for example, fetal suffering or a risk to the health of the mother. It is therefore appropriate to be careful and to compare prematurity figures with others, such as mortality and perinatal morbidity. This finding of a decrease in premature births is a starting point for future analyses with the objective of reducing the risks of pre-term birth. I will ask my administration, particularly the experts from Sciensano, to look into the possibilities of investigating this problem at the beginning of the existing administrative and epidemiological data.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u28	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. There are 15 million premature births worldwide, of which 1.1 million are deaths each year. We must therefore make every effort to improve the prenatal conditions of future mothers, to improve their living conditions and working conditions - we can do so as politicians - and therefore improve the well-being of future mothers and their future babies. I will not fail to come back to you to have these analyses which are important and which must give us the means tomorrow to improve those essential moments. We know, indeed, how the birth of premature children can have consequences for the health of these children, for the environment and for mothers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u29	Mr President, Minister, on 2 December last, a meeting of European Health Ministers was held by video conference. The central theme of the German Presidency of the Council of the European Union was the strengthening of European cooperation in the sustainable fight against the covid-19 pandemic. The European Union's health ministers had to exchange views on the basis of a Presidency proposal for the Council conclusions to be drawn from "The teachings of the covid-19 pandemic in the field of health". The other items on the agenda were the current situation of the pandemic in the European Union and the package "Building a European Health Union" published by the European Commission on 11 November 2020. It includes two legislative proposals to extend the mandate of the European health agencies, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) and the European Medicines Agency (EMA), as well as a legislative proposal on pandemic preparedness. Health Ministers and the European Commission also discussed the EU's pharmaceutical strategy proposed by the Commission. Finally, after a review by the German Presidency in the health sector, Portugal presented its work programme in this area for the presidency of the Council of the European Union which has just begun. Minister, how did you feel about this meeting by videoconference? What can you tell us about the German Presidency's proposal on the teachings of covid-19 pandemic? What are the important elements that deserve the attention of our committee with regard to the package "Building a European Health Union"? Can you outline the European Commission's dual proposal? Were any decisions taken at that meeting? If so, what will be the impact for Belgium? What will be the Portuguese Presidency's work programme? What will be the agenda and objectives of the next meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u30	Mr President, Mr Prévot, this was an interesting meeting at which a great deal of useful information and advice was given to the Ministers of Health by the European Commissioner of Health, Stella Kyriakides, by the Vice-President of the Commission responsible for promoting our European way of life, Margaritis Schinas, by the new Executive Director of the European Medicines Agency, Emer Cooke, and by the Director of ECDC, Dr Andrea Ammon. The ECDC and the Commission have clearly stressed the seriousness of the situation in Europe on the basis of the latest epidemiological figures and have pointed out to us that a rapid relaxation would lead to further increases and confinements. The Commission urged ministers not to relax the current measures during the year-end period. We have also received an update from EMA on the status of future vaccines, clearly indicating that scientific evaluations of vaccines will be independent and transparent, and that EMA will only issue licences if it appears that the vaccines are safe and effective. Full assessment decisions as well as all clinical trials will be published shortly after authorization. Yet we realize that citizens have questions about the safety of these vaccines. More transparent communication with citizens will therefore be necessary to make it clear that the vaccines that will be licensed will be safe and effective. We have all unanimously endorsed the Council conclusions proposed by the German Presidency on the lessons to be learned from the current crisis. The crisis has not been managed optimally, either at Member State level or at European Union level. For example, the bans on the export of oral masks and the numerous bottlenecks in the supply of medical supplies in the first month of the crisis are remembered. During the crisis, there was a marked improvement. We have gradually seen growing solidarity and assistance between the Member States, as well as very significant initiatives by the Commission, such as the joint purchase of medical supplies, and the European Union's cooperation in the field of vaccines. We must therefore learn lessons and strengthen preparedness in the area of crisis management. The relevant EU agencies, EMA and ECDC, must also be strengthened. In the field of medical products, we need to see how we can reduce our dependence on third countries. It will also be important for us to better and more evenly collect and use health data to allow for more effective surveillance and better response. Finally, the European Union must also be more active on a global scale and shoulder its responsibilities. To all these common concerns, the Commission has responded quickly and effectively by already proposing a package of measures, the European Health Union and a pharmaceutical strategy. This package includes several actions to improve the preparation of the Union and the Member States, as well as to strengthen ECDC and EMA. Although many ministers have responded positively to these proposals, others have expressed reservations about national competence in health policy and doubts about the need to strengthen European agencies. Negotiations on these proposals have not yet begun. Time will be allocated. It was too early to agree on these proposals. In itself, it's not surprising. During the Portuguese Presidency, a great deal of time will therefore be devoted to the negotiations on this package of measures and the implementation of the European Union's pharmaceutical strategy. In addition, the EU Cancer Plan will be launched next year. We do not yet know what will be on the agenda of future Councils of Ministers. Of course, work in the field of the European Health Union will continue. The official agenda will only be published fourteen days in advance. Two official Councils of European Health Ministers are already scheduled for 16 March and 15 June. In addition, several videoconferences will be programmed to advance the work. We must take the time to discuss the proposals in depth, but we must not lose our momentum in the essential steps to be taken in preparing for crises, with a view to increased European cooperation that will benefit all citizens of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u31	Minister, thank you for all this information. I hear this meeting turned out to be interesting. Such exchanges of good practices between the European Member States are always useful. I also hear that, at this meeting on 2 December 2020, Member States were urged not to relax the measures at the end of the year, which was clearly applied by the Member States, including our country. In the coming days, the impact of the holidays and the respect of measures by citizens will be analysed calmly. However, there is still the impression that a real extra effort was made, also during these holidays, and that the measures were generally followed. That is to be welcomed. As you said yourself, the crisis has not been managed optimally, both at Member State level and at European level. The conclusions and lessons of this crisis will obviously have to be drawn. But it is now important to continue to deal with this crisis by not repeating the mistakes of the past. In front of us there is an important course to go. This is this famous vaccination campaign, which I hope will give us more opportunities more quickly. The lessons will have to be taken into account and the vaccination campaign will be as optimal as possible, which, I am sure, will allow us to have better days very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u32	Mr Minister, the Royal Decree of 12 June 2020 on the repair of material damage caused by occupational diseases in favour of voluntary members of the operational staff of the rescue zones, published in the Belgian Monitor on 17 June 2020, with retroactive effect to 11 March 2020, allows firefighters and voluntary ambulance workers to be covered by occupational health insurance. It's a great thing. However, it appears that voluntary ambulance workers who are not part of the relief zones, such as those working for private companies or the Red Cross, do not benefit from this regulatory framework when they are subject to the same risks. Minister, do you believe that this difference in treatment is justified, in fact and in law? Do you intend to correct this royal decree with a view to re-establishing equal treatment between ambulance attendants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u33	Mr President, Mrs Rohonyi, with regard to ambulance workers in emergency areas, I would like to make it clear that the operational staff of the rescue zones do not fall within the scope of the Voluntary Act. This staff has a specific occupational disease coverage, which was planned for 2017, but has only been implemented this year. In other words, "voluntary" terminology, as far as they are concerned, may lead to confusion. They actually have sui generis status like any other personnel in the rescue areas. It is this status that gives them the right to cover for occupational diseases. On the other hand, volunteers outside rescue zones, by the nature of their activities outside any employment contract, do not benefit from the occupational disease coverage granted to wage-earners. I believe that the concept of "occupational disease" cannot be invoked in the case of volunteers. The voluntary status does not form part of the guiding principles of occupational risk, which are, on the one hand, the existence of an employment contract under the authority of an employer and for remuneration, and, on the other hand, the payment of social security contributions. In my view, the specificity of occupational risk must be maintained. The status of volunteers is quite different. It is governed by the Act of 3 July 2005, which now only provides for an insurance obligation covering civil liability in the head of the organisation. However, this law allows for the extension, by royal decree, of insurance coverage to diseases contracted during the exercise of an activity as a volunteer. Rather, it is this path that should be explored if volunteers are to be specifically covered in this area. In the event of covid-19 contamination, volunteers of course benefit from their normal health insurance coverage. If, in addition to their voluntary activity, they are engaged in a professional activity as an employee or self-employed person, they shall be entitled to compensation in the event of sickness from their insurance body. I also decided to extend until 31 March 2021 the sui generis compensation scheme established under the Compensation Fund for Volunteer Victims of the Covid-19 to which they can apply. I should like to inform you that to date no application has been submitted to this Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u34	Mr Minister, do you confirm to me that voluntary ambulance workers who operate outside a rescue zone are not covered by occupational health insurance because they are considered volunteers in the strict sense? The Act of 3 July 2005 allows them to extend their insurance coverage for diseases they have contracted as part of their voluntary activities. This is very good, except that it is only a possibility and not an automatic acquisition. I continue to believe that this is problematic in terms of the risks they are taking as part of their activity. In addition, the Compensation Fund for Volunteer Victims of Covid-19 was indeed extended until March 31. Again, I believe that the decision was necessary in view of the second wave that we are still facing today. On the other hand, I am surprised to learn that no applications have yet been submitted, although this Fund could be a useful complement to this Act of 3 July 2005. Why did you address this issue? I can possibly come back to you on this subject at another meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u35	Minister, I have a question about the supply of medication to penitentiary institutions. By means of a public tender, it would have been decided that the penitentiary institutions would have recourse to one supplier for the supply of the medication. What criteria were used to establish a single central supplier system? Will this supplier also act as the inmates' home pharmacist? We all know that there are quite a lot of drug-related problems in our prisons, which, in addition to addiction itself, also cause psychological problems. How will this one supplier be able to provide the pharmaceutical care of patients with drug-related or mental problems? How is this contract provided for the supply of urgent medication to the prisoners, so outside normal hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u36	Mrs Depoorter, the delivery of medicines must always be via pharmacies. This is also the case for penitentiary institutions. The FAGG was informed by the Federal Public Service Justice about the results of the public procurement. Both chain pharmacists and independent pharmacies have been selected for delivery to 36 penitentiary institutions. There are currently 18 pharmacies, open to the public, appointed: 6 pharmacies from the group Multipfarma, 7 pharmacies from the group EPC Familia, 3 pharmacies from the group Good and 2 independent pharmacies. There are already 33 institutions supplied by one of these pharmacies today. For 3 institutions, this will start from 1 February 2021. The supplying pharmacist will not act as a home pharmacist, as he cannot have the necessary personal contacts with the inmate to properly take up the role of home pharmacist. One of the reasons for the public tender was to ensure the delivery of medicines to penitentiary institutions through individual medication preparation. One of the advantages in general is that a limited amount of medicinal products is present at the destination. In practice, we often see a weekly or sometimes even daily supply of medicines to penitentiary institutions. We heard from the FPS Justice Department that the inmate never has direct access to his or her medicines. Medicinal products are always administered under the supervision of a healthcare professional. The production of the IMV packs already requires a thorough follow-up of the patient, by setting up his or her medication schedule. Any medicine included in the medication schedule is prescribed by the treating physician in the penitentiary institution. It shall be informed of this schedule and shall approve it. In addition to the medical care that the treating doctor is required to exercise as a result of his profession, the legislation is also very clear to the pharmacist. The Royal Decree of 21 January 2009 on training for pharmacists obliges pharmacists to take pharmaceutical care of each delivery of a medicinal product to a patient, i.e. without distinction for patients in prisons. During inspections, the FAGG shall ensure strict compliance with that legislation for patients living in community and for patients in a penitentiary institution. So I see no reason to believe that the pharmacists in question would not be able to provide the necessary pharmaceutical care. The FAGG is not aware of the modalities for the supply of medicinal products and other medicinal products to the penitentiary institutions. In view of the appointment of 18 pharmacies throughout the various Belgian provinces, it is assumed that the pharmacies concerned can provide for the supply of medicinal products correctly and in accordance with the terms of the contract, i.e. within the prescribed time limits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u37	Minister, I note that pharmacies which are part of co-operatives or larger bodies can, in particular, meet the conditions laid down by the government. However, I see a contradiction in your answer. You say that the pharmacist must guarantee pharmaceutical care, but that the pharmacist cannot serve as a house pharmacist. Just there the shoe is pinching. A patient, any patient, is entitled to good pharmaceutical care. This means that this function of house pharmacist is indeed carried out. You can respond to this by assigning a CRA, a pharmacist, per penitentiary institution. You can also respond by ensuring that the pharmacists who deliver to the penitentiary institutions are more than just suppliers of pills. We need to move on. The people who live in a penitentiary institution, and this is a vulnerable group, need optimal pharmaceutical guidance. You assume that the pharmacists who have been designated will also deliver during watchkeeping or in the event of urgency. There too very often wrings the shoe. The surrounding pharmacists are very often good enough to provide medication on weekends and during the night or on watch, but not for the full guidance of the patients. And that's a problem, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u38	Minister, the law of 7 April 2017 provides for the creation of a cannabis agency in the womb of the FAGG. In this way, the government is given the monopoly on the production, trade and export of cannabis for medical purposes. However, this law still needs an implementing act. Minister, will you implement this law in the short term? If so, what exact timing do you follow?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u39	Mr De Caluwé, the creation of the cannabis agency has already been incorporated into the law amending provisions on the provision of scientific and technical advice by the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products and on the financing of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products as well as the establishment of a cannabis agency. I will ask my services to take action this year so that we can implement this law, in particular the creation of the cannabis agency. The cannabis agency will organise and vouch for the possession and sale of medicinal cannabis as planned. In addition, I would also like to look at how we can stimulate studies on medical cannabis use, so that I can base my policy on new scientific insights. There is a great deal going on in this area at international level. This also allows us to have a more objective debate on medicinal cannabis that can be separated from the discussion about the use of cannabis as a means of transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u40	I would like to give Mr de Caluwe the floor for the reply, but he seems to have a technical problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u41	Mr President, while Mr De Caluwé is trying to log in again, I would like to take this opportunity to ask how long the Minister can stay today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u42	The Minister can stay until about 5.30 p.m. today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u43	Mr. De Caluwé, you're back. Did you hear the minister's answer? Would you like to reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u44	Mr President, I did not hear the answer. I've seen him answer, but I haven't heard the answer because of network problems. However, I will review the answer later. That's not a problem. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I imagine that the various problems raised in Mrs Fonck's question are well known. So I'm just going to give the answers point by point. First of all, Mrs Fonck asks me to enlighten the committee on the double meter system. In accordance with Article 45 of the Special Law of 6 January 2014 on the Sixth State Reform, the transitional period for the maximum amount to be invoiced ended on 31 December 2019. Since 1 January 2020, there is therefore a risk that the maximum amount to be charged will no longer protect insured persons in the same way. The establishment of a formal mechanism of maximum inter-federal charges presupposes, in principle, the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the federal authority and the Communities wishing to participate. However, no cooperation agreement has so far been concluded for the period after 2019. My predecessor has proposed as an interim solution a double meter MÀF that relates to the decisions of the Federal Council of Ministers of 22 November 2019 regarding the mechanism of the MÀF and the consequences of the sixth reform of the State. More specifically, the solution proposed by the Council of Ministers on 22 November 2019 is to provide that the federal authorities and the Communities exchange data allowing the latter, with the means granted to them, to apply a compensation mechanism for insured persons concerned by a stay in a revalidation establishment or having moderator tickets under transferred revalidation agreements. Mrs Fonck also asked me whether this system had been put in place and how it was implemented. During 2020, inter-administrative contacts were held between INAMI and the health administrations of the federated entities to operationalize the proposed solution and ensure continuity of social rights for insured persons. Federal entities and approved health insurance funds (known as zorgkassen in Flanders) receive, via federal mutual funds, a signal when the MÀF ceiling is exceeded provided that or from the moment when personal interventions relating to revalidation establishments are or have been recorded. Care is therefore taken to ensure that patients do not suffer any disadvantage in the further implementation of the state reform with regard to the capping of user tickets. At the end of 2020, INAMI, the representatives of the concerned administrations of the federated entities and the insurers agreed on the principles of a cost allocation resulting from this technical solution based on double meters. The proposed solution will therefore be submitted to the Interdepartmental Public Health Conference for the validation of operational agreements at the administrative level and for an agreement on the allocation of costs and the financial statement. Ms. Fonck asked me what the impact of the double meter was on patients. The application of the solution, as proposed to ensure continuity after the end of the scheme provided for by the special law at the end of 2019, implies that nothing changes for patients themselves and, in particular, for patients staying in Sp and G services or other regionalised revalidation facilities as regards the capping of their health care in relation to the MàF regulation, as provided for by the special law for 2019. These are my answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u46	Minister, thank you. There's a signal when the MàF ceiling is exceeded. Does this mean that when the patients concerned reach MàF, they receive reimbursement at any level? In this case, it is therefore in a second stage that the various levels of power divide the possible additional budgetary burden. Or will the patient, himself, have to take steps in a second phase?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u47	Could you repeat it again?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u48	You explained that for each patient concerned, a signal was triggered when the MàF ceiling was exceeded and then you determined, between the federal and the federated entities, who would pay what more and how. I would like to know whether, in practice, the patient no longer pays as soon as he reaches this MàF ceiling, regardless of the level or type of care, directly triggering the MàF mechanism for all levels of power? Has this already been correctly applied in 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u49	Mrs Fonck, as you insist, I imagine you must be aware of problems in the practical implementation that I personally do not know. From what I've been told, nothing changes for patients. The mechanism remains as it is, with this automaticity. But, if you wish, and if you don't want to say any mistakes, I can find out more.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u50	Minister, do we, however, agree on the objective of the reform of the state? I was very much involved in this during the difficult negotiations of the sixth reform of the State. What bothered me and I found it totally unfair and unacceptable is that in the end the patient pays more simply because the skills have been transferred in part. This is obviously unacceptable in terms of equity in access to care, patient protection, and financial security in this area. If a lasting solution is on the table for the future, at the Interdepartmental Conference, I will simply allow myself to convey this message of principle. On a practical level, no steps, whatsoever, should be taken by patients. An automatic character must be provided to ensure that the patient is not penalized on either the federated or the federal side, and should not go beyond the FAM. I'm not going to let the debate go on. You have understood; keep an eye on it and I will return to the subject once the solution is finalized, depending on its results.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u51	Minister, since my question is not new, I will update it somewhat in the light of the facts that have occurred in the meantime. On 25 September last saw the publication in the Belgian Monitor of the Royal Decree of 10 September 2020 on the medical permanence of general practitioners and the approval of functional cooperation. The government was then in day-to-day business, which raises questions as to the legitimacy of this royal decree. Furthermore, the content of this royal decree runs counter to the agreement reached by your predecessor, Mrs De Block, with the health colleagues concerned. Meanwhile, the ABSyM filed an appeal against this royal decree. Since you took office, I assume that you have had the opportunity to learn about the content of this royal decree and the agreements reached by your predecessor and the health professionals concerned, agreements which the administration and health professionals could not ignore. I thought I heard your sensitivity to general medicine, circles and duty stations. The purpose of my request today is therefore to encourage you to reopen the dialogue with the general practitioners on this point which seems nothing at first sight but which is really essential, both with regard to the governance model and with regard to the importance of circles and guard stations in the organization of the general medical guards, because they represent important issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u52	Mr President, I hope that Mrs Fonck will not blame me for replying to her in Dutch. I would like to reply to the following points. Within the consultation model on the GPs and GPs, several bodies are active, including the Interadministrative Cell Watch (IAC) and the GPs Guidance Platform (BPW). The IAC is a partenariate between the FPS Public Health, the RIZIV, the policy cell and the coordinators of the guard and of 1733. This cell defines the policies and provides for their concrete implementation. The BPW has as its general mission the guidance of the implementation of the draft Wait and 1733, as laid down by the then Minister for Social Affairs and Health at the Task Force of 2 February 2018. The guidance takes place in a party between the government and the key stakeholders. As far as the key stakeholders are concerned, the platform is composed of three representatives of the Medicomut GP Bank, three representatives of the National Council for Urgent Medical Assistance and three representatives of the sickness funds. In addition, the policy cell and the two administrations involved, the FOD and the RIZIV, together with the guards' coordinators and 1733, participate in the platform. I will give you these elements, which you are probably familiar with, to indicate that the general practitioners are therefore heard on a regular basis within the framework of the reform of watchkeeping services. The comments made by the interested parties in the past were taken into account and the Royal Decree was amended accordingly. The quality law requires that the general practitioners organise the permanence through a recognised functional association of general practitioners. In doing so, we are working on a uniform and clear system of general practitioners' wards and partnerships between general practitioners' wards. The patient is at the heart of this story. The permanent arrangements for general practitioners are there to ensure that patients can contact a general practitioner at any time of the day if they need to and that they know where the general practitioner practices. For the general practitioners themselves, this clear organisational model also brings important advantages: a better balance between work and private, by reducing the number of night shifts per general practitioner; a driver can be counted for each network and the administration is brought together. The royal decrees concerning the medical permanence of general practitioners and the recognition of functional partnerships were published on 10 September 2020. In addition to this clear organisational model, a harmonised, transparent funding will be rolled out. The new, clear funding rule will give each post the necessary financial security. A royal decision is being prepared for that. The dialogue was slower due to the current crisis, but further consultations with the sector within the guidance platform are certainly on the agenda. I hope that will also answer your concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u53	Minister, your answer is quite chilly. This royal decree is obviously, first and foremost, taken by a government and a minister. It was on the order that I asked you directly, not about the medical permanence, but about how this medical permanence is organized. What has been planned, and which is in fact a nonsense, are those famous functional cooperations that you have mentioned. Doctors are in fact under an obligation to establish an additional BLSO for cooperation, in addition to the existing BLSO for the duty station. I think it is important to avoid always redoing additional structures. This changes an organization that works precisely on general practitioners, on circles, on guard stations. I suggest you, politically, to review the mechanism to retain somewhere this concept of functional cooperation, which would then take place with the circles of general practitioners who will determine the modalities, etc. Maybe you're going to tell me that my remarks are a matter of detail or verbiage. But this actually changes everything, because the organization of the modalities then remains based on the circles of general medicine, on the shifts, rather than on the creation of functional units. In substance, this text has opened the possibility of setting up and organizing guards by completely removing the circles of general medicine. I think it's a mistake. I hope that in the dialogue you will have with the general practitioners, you will be careful to rehabilitate the circles in these functional cooperations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u54	Minister, in March 2019, the House adopted a motion for a resolution to reduce the cost of glasses and lenses and improve their accessibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u55	Mrs Fonck, you know that in March 2019, the House adopted a motion for a resolution aimed at reducing the cost of glasses and lenses and improving their accessibility. Improving the accessibility of health care is a priority for the government. Part of the additional budgets invested in health care will be dedicated specifically to this. A working group within INAMI will make proposals on this subject. We have already discussed several topics: dental care with Mrs Gijbels, the MF, the paying third party, the supplements, the costs as well. You're right, the cost of glasses and lenses can also be an obstacle for families. I have obviously taken note of this resolution, which you mentioned in your question, and of other parliamentary initiatives on this subject, including the resolution by Mrs Jiroflée. I can give you some good news that you may already know. On 7 September, therefore, before taking office, the INAMI Insurance Committee approved a draft royal decree lowering the diopter threshold for glasses from 8.25 to 7.75 for adults. INAMI is in the process of completing the file. We hope that this increase in reimbursement will apply from July. I agree. This is only a one-off measure. Accessibility to glasses and lenses remains a key issue. I will therefore ask INAMI to continue to work on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u56	Minister, thank you. I would like to share three thoughts. First, if someone has a visual acuity loss that requires a 7.75 diopter, I can tell you that he sees nothing. So not having glasses or lenses prevents him from working. You will understand that going from a diopter from 8.25 to 7.75 makes me laugh. This type of advance is not going to change anything for the patients involved. What I mean is that a device to correct visual acuity loss is an existential device for patients. We still have a 21 % VAT, Mr Minister, even though at European level, such a system is considered a means of assistance and could therefore benefit from a 6 % VAT, which would make it possible to reduce the cost of glasses and lenses which are one form of treatment like another. This is indeed an ophthalmological treatment. Secondly, social security should be strengthened, with a regulatory framework on the part of eyeglass and lens producers, so that they can offer products that allow a clear cap. This would allow true equity, and justice. This is an extremely important issue in accessing care for children. Even if the devices are a little different for children, when there is a worsening of the loss of visual acuity of a myopic child, according to today's modalities, the child cannot necessarily be reimbursed for changing glasses. This directly penalizes his learning, his school integration, his social integration and therefore his future. I really would like to stress these points which I believe are important and which, today, weigh a great deal on families, but also on people with less financial means. It's existential for them. Thank you on their behalf.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u57	Minister, for several years I have been advocating and putting forward proposals to encourage living organ donation alongside organ transplants from corpses. This is all the more necessary as the number of body organs available continues to decrease and many patients remain on waiting lists for a long time. In 2016, your predecessor announced the publication of the Royal Order allowing part of the medical expenses for organ donors. In March 2018, it stated that "the Royal Order will enter into force retroactively on August 1, 2017. It will therefore cover 90% of the costs for the living donor. A reflection is currently being carried out in my office to try to find technical solutions in order to resolve the difficulties raised in the predonation phase. As regards the problem of the possible loss of income, a study on this subject seems to me to be an inevitable step, given the complexity of the field and the multiplicity of social security schemes."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u58	Minister, I would like to take stock of the issue of the removal of barriers to the donation of organs from living people. My questions are as follows: Do you intend to adopt a royal decree in order to establish a compensation system for live donors that covers direct and indirect expenses and loss of income associated with the donation? What is the status of the treatment of medical expenses for live organ donors and the implementation of the resolution adopted in May 2018? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u59	Mrs Fonck, actually, my answer will be extremely short. Your question relates in fact to a royal decree which still has to be submitted for the opinion of the Data Protection Authority. This means that it is reaching the end of its administrative path. Without being able to give an exact date, however, I can tell you that its publication in the Belgian Monitor should not be delayed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answer. This is an important issue, as it aims to encourage the donation of organs from living people, as the donation of organs from deceased people tends to be reduced. This means that there are fewer deaths due to violent trauma. At the same time, more and more patients are on waiting lists. May I remind you that this order, which we are awaiting, was announced in 2016? In 2018, the previous minister had indicated that it would come into effect retroactively to August 1, 2017. It is January 5, 2021, and we still have nothing! That's why I'd like to put you under a little pressure. This is not just a matter for you, but your administration has been working on this issue. I would therefore point out that I do not personally target you, Mr.Minister, but this situation seems to me to be indecent in terms of governance. So since 2016, we've just been doing com'. I'm this very long-standing case. As you may know, I have obviously received - as a nephrologist - a lot of patients waiting for a kidney transplant and despairing in dialysis. Given the urgency of this issue, I dare hope that people will be stopped from playing pipeau and that this royal decree announced over the past five years will finally come into being, proving to be solid and consistent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u61	Minister, the Association francophone des orthopedagogues cliniciens (AFO) informed me of the freezing of numerous applications for accreditation of clinical orthopedagogue at the Francophone level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u62	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, the problem of visas and the accreditation of the clinical orthopedagogues that you raise has been brought to my attention and that of my administration. It was also mentioned in the inter-administrative consultations between the public health FPS administrations responsible for visas and the Communities responsible for accreditation. As such, the visa and approval procedure is not frozen. However, there is still a problem with the diplomas awarded in the French Community where the master's degree in clinical orthopedagogy per se does not yet exist. I would like to point out that the legislation dates back to 2015 and that several universities have already taken the necessary steps to meet the requirements of the law regarding the practice of clinical orthopedagogy. Universities that have not yet adopted any measures are free to follow their colleagues and make the necessary adjustments. My administration is aware of 50 applications for a clinician orthopedagogue visa that cannot be processed at this time. The Conference of Francophone Deans of Universities and the Académie de Recherche et d'Enseignement supérieur have prepared a note concerning the accreditation of graduates who can demonstrate their training in clinical orthopedagogy. This note contains an overview of the diplomas that would meet the accreditation criteria and will be discussed in more detail at the next inter-administrative consultation between the FPS Public Health and the Communities. I think that this note should help to find a solution for some of the outstanding files. The possibility of transitional measures for clinical orthopedagogues is still under consideration. I will continue to look at this issue in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u63	Minister, if I sum up, there will be a valuing of experience and expertise for these visa applications. It's wise and it's in line with what the Francophone Association of Clinician Orthopedagogues proposed. You are referring to the fact that this famous note prepared by the Conference of Deans would appear at the next consultation. May I ask you in what timetable? Is he known?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u64	No. I can't answer you. I can try to inform you bilaterally if you want. I'll send you a letter if I have any clarifications on this. I'll ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u65	No offense, if your firm could send me a little e-mail, that would be great. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u66	The Chair: There are three questions left for you, Ms. Fonck. You're in great shape and you've done a good job.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u67	I'll drop them off at the same time. These are not questions for the pleasure of filing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u68	I understand, we don't worry!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u69	Minister, it is my responsibility that some patients are deprived of their right to compulsory insurance because they are not in good standing for contributions from their supplementary insurance. In precarised patients who are unable to pay an accumulated delay of up to several hundred euros, this is an insurmountable problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u70	Mrs Fonck, I can indeed confirm that the non-payment of supplementary insurance contributions cannot under any circumstances have the effect of excluding persons from the benefits of compulsory health care and allowances insurance. The consequences of non-payment of supplementary insurance contributions were explained in a Royal Decree of 8 May 2018. Furthermore, on the initiative of the Office for the Control of Mutualities, all mutualities have taken these consequences into account in their statutes, which are accessible via the Internet. The Office for the Control of Mutualities has no knowledge of the existence of situations that you refer to in your question. But if such situations were found, they could of course be reported to the Monitoring Office, which will carry out the necessary investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u71	Minister, thank you for your answer. I share your position. I would point out that, like me, you would find it unacceptable that pre-carried patients should be deprived of their compulsory insurance rights because they would not be in good standing for supplementary insurance. Care is obviously important for their health.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u72	Mr Minister, I have already repeatedly denounced discrimination against young Belgian doctors and dentists who are subject to quotas, unlike European foreign doctors and dentists who can obtain an INAMI number without any restrictions. This situation is even more incomprehensible, even though shortages exist in certain geographical areas and in certain specialities. As a reminder, 40% of the INAMI numbers given in 2015 in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation were to European doctors. In order to put an end to this discrimination, I had tabled a bill in the previous legislature which, on the one hand, was intended to set up, by royal decree, a quota for doctors trained abroad and, on the other hand, provided for the abolition of the quota for Belgian doctors if this royal decree had not been adopted within two years. During the debates in committee, agreement had been reached on the first point, but not on the second.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u73	I've carried this file a lot personally, so I'm waiting for the fall.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u74	It is a rather administrative text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u75	I assure you, you have until June 7, 2021 to answer me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u76	In response to your question, you should be aware that the introduction of a quota applied exclusively to foreign-trained students is problematic because of the proportionality requirements of the measures taken. The provisions may conflict with European directives. According to the first legal analysis, it is quite clear that the European legal framework within which these measures are applied makes it difficult, if not impossible, to apply them. First, Directive 2013/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 November 2013 amending Directive 2005/36/EC on the recognition of professional qualifications and Regulation (EU) No 1024/2012 on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System (IMI). There is also Directive 2018/958 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 June 2018 on proportionality checks before the adoption of new occupational regulations. Because of the problems that arise, I have asked my administration to make an update. You are asking me what action has been taken in this regard. The note on international physician mobility has been updated - I can transfer it to you. You also ask me what projects have been implemented. In section 145 of the Act of 10 May 2015, the opinion of the Planning Commission is sought before the granting of the authorisations for the exercise. It must be borne in mind that, since early March, the members of the commissions have been heavily solicited in the context of the crisis, particularly on the ground, which leaves them no time to reflect on this issue. What are the alternatives to the study? The Planning Commission will carry out an alternative scenario that will not take into account international mobility in order to fully measure its impact. This self-sufficiency scenario is expected by the end of the first half of 2021 at the latest. The alternatives of the quota in its present form are still being considered within the service, such as the quota per traineeship master and traineeship places. However, these proposals would not solve the problem of international mobility, which arises mainly for professionals who come from abroad and who have a basic diploma and specialisation. One solution would be to apply to the quota in force in Belgium a percentage of foreign graduates, such as the non-resident decree which is applicable in the teaching of the French Community. However, we must draw your attention to the fact that this decree is under European infringement proceedings. We have been working with the French Community for several years to provide the latter with statistical information for the preparation of its dossier under this procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u77	Mrs. Fonck, is the fall right for you?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u78	She could have been more beautiful, Mr. President. Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for the note that I will read with great attention, if you give it to me. International mobility is obviously a positive thing. The concern is that today we find ourselves in a surreal situation where our young people in general and the young graduates in medicine or dentistry are quotaed, limited in the exercise of their profession while non-Belgian European graduates can automatically receive an INAMI number. If this approach affects Dutch speakers, do you know that on the French-speaking side, we are particularly affected? I'm thinking about dentists in particular. It should be noted that, in some years, 40% of INAMI numbers are allocated to internationally trained doctors and dentists, while our young graduates are restricted, which is unacceptable! You have referred to the European directives. The latter provide for two exceptions in two sectors, namely the health and safety sectors, with regard to the free movement of diplomas. With regard to health in particular, they aim to preserve the health model in the medium and long term. In fact, some people coming from abroad could leave and put the organisation of care in a Member State in difficulty. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that other Member States have taken a number of measures which have not been broken down, and which, I believe, gives us significant arguments. Belgian doctors and dentists who have graduated without being punished or discriminated against "against" foreigners must be placed on the same footing. Otherwise, maintaining quotas in Belgium for doctors and dentists makes no sense and seems particularly unfair and discriminatory. Thank you for the follow-up and for the attention paid to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u79	What do you mean by 'accountability mechanism'? Who are you going to be responsible for? Can you confirm to me that you will not sanction young people who have successfully completed their training by preventing them from practicing on the grounds that the quotas have not been respected? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u80	Mrs Fonck, as far as the accountability mechanism you are referring to is concerned, you know that successive state reforms have considerably complicated the health professional's career path and that, at different times, he is passing through the community and federal jurisdictions according to a round-trip movement. You are aware of the particularly long nature of this journey before the entry of the general practitioner or specialist into the labour market. The quota relates to the entry into a traineeship with a view to obtaining a particular professional qualification and must be fixed six years in advance, so that the student undertaking his or her university training benefits from the knowledge of the conditions of access to the various titles. Since this is a complex journey, it is important that all stakeholders – the Public Health FPS, the INAMI, the University, the Deans, the Community – can converge to achieve the goal. The accountability mechanism referred to aims to ensure that each actor initiates procedures at its own level, so that, in the long run, the quota set by the federal government – the overall quota – and the federated entities – the community subquotas – can be reached. My predecessor has taken steps to ensure that students who have started their training can obtain a place of internship. Each year, additional certificates are issued for this purpose. I would like to act in a more sustained way, through the establishment of an inter-federal consultative body that will bind stakeholders in order to achieve the objectives set. For the past three years, an entry examination has been held in the French Community, while it has been transformed into a competition within the Flemish Community. Now, it seems to me wise to evaluate these two procedures and to see to what extent they fulfil their objectives. This exercise can certainly be accomplished together through this new body.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u81	Mr Minister, I thank you for your answer, which, I confess, has taught me nothing. Clearly, the manner in which this accountability mechanism is explicit varies depending on whether Francophones or Dutch speakers are addressed. Thus, I was struck to read that the Dutch-speaking press saw it as a sanction. I therefore draw your attention and, more generally, that of the parties that make up the Vivaldi majority, to the need not to develop a system that would punish the young graduates, who have thus succeeded in their formation, by preventing them from practicing on the grounds that the quotas have not been respected. This should not be at their expense. A graduate must be able to exercise, if he wishes, his activity in the curative field. Things can be settled differently. It would be shocking to leave a sword of Damocles permanently suspended above the heads of medical and dental students – these are often forgotten in this file. It is therefore necessary to revert to logical basic principles. When you graduate, when you have passed your studies, it means, for a general practitioner, 6+3 years. For a specialist, it's 6+6 years or even 6+7 years. Well, yes, when you graduate, you must be able to practice! It would not be acceptable for this type of sanction to come to light. What I have read in the Dutch-speaking press is of great concern to me on this point. Here I was allowing myself to redo a little laius on this important issue for our students and young graduates, doctors and dentists.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u82	Mr President, I am done with my series of questions. This will allow you to change a little style, face and voice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u83	Mrs Fonck, there is no will on my part to change style and voice. I've enjoyed your interventions very much, know it! Nice exercise, anyway!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u84	Minister, the tobacco advertising ban for newspaper shops and daily dealers entered into force on 1 January 2021 on the basis of a legislative amendment of 15 March 2020. UNIZO and Perstablo indicate that they do not think the legislative amendment is clear enough and asked the Public Health Office questions about this, but did not receive a clear answer. I therefore put the question to you, Minister. Do you confirm that the legislation applies to the logos of tobacco manufacturers' smoking products, the brand names of smoke products and the images, both in the shop and outside the store? In other words, can they still be hanged? Can illuminated advertising for smoke products in the storeroom still be regulated or should it be removed? Those concerned would have liked a clear answer to their question. They then asked whether it was possible to set up a committee for interpretation disputes, depending on the answer, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u85	Mrs Van Hoof, the Law of 15 March 2020 amending the Law of 24 January 1977 on the protection of the health of consumers in the field of food and other products has indeed deleted an exception to the general ban on advertising tobacco products. From 1 January 2021, the marking of a tobacco product on posters and on the front of tobacco shops and newspaper shops selling tobacco products is no longer permitted. Article 7 (2) (a) of the abovementioned Act of 24 January 1977 states that since 1 January 2021: "1° Advertising and sponsorship of tobacco, tobacco-based products and similar products, hereinafter referred to as tobacco products, shall be prohibited. Advertising and sponsorship shall be considered to be any communication or act intended, directly or indirectly, to promote the sale, irrespective of the place, means of communication used or the techniques used. 2° The prohibition provided for in the 1° shall not apply to: - advertising of tobacco products in newspapers and periodicals published outside the European Union, except where such advertising or imports of such newspapers or periodicals are primarily intended to promote tobacco products on the Belgian or Community market, - occasional advertising of tobacco products in the context of the communication to the public of events abroad, except where such advertising or communication to the public of the event is intended primarily to promote tobacco products for the Belgian market. - advertising of tobacco products in printed publications intended exclusively for persons engaged in the tobacco trade.' The provisions shall apply to products based on tobacco, cigarettes, rolling tobacco, cigars and cigarillos, pipe tobacco, waterpipe tobacco, prune and snuff tobacco, tobacco-based novel products and equipment necessary for their consumption, herbal products intended for smoking, electronic cigarettes and e-liquids, with or without nicotine, and to other products comparable to tobacco-based products. In practice, I confirm that all the examples you mention in your question are advertising and promotional practices which are prohibited after 1 January. Some of them were already banned before the amendment of the law. For example, the presentation of certain products, the so-called 'highlighting technique', is already the subject of a judicial decision prohibiting such practice. The services of the Public Health Office want to introduce the new provisions as quickly and as effectively as possible. In this context, he communicated with all relevant market participants in recent weeks to ensure that they received detailed information on the implementation of the measures. All the questions asked were answered in detail. Should disputes arise in the coming months as a result of the inspections of the Public Health Office, they will be settled for the courts and courts, as part of their traditional role. There are therefore no plans to set up a committee for the interpretation of disputes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u86	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I think it is quite clear that the examples in the questions that were not answered last year are now prohibited. I fully support that. I welcome the fact that there is clarity for the sector. You've created it now. Indeed, this clarity does not mean that there is a need for a committee for the interpretation of disputes. The rest will be completed either through financial sanctions or through courts and courts, as you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u87	Mr Minister, this question concerns the law on the extension of palliative care, of which I myself was the author and which was also unanimously adopted in 2016. In this we look not only at life expectancy, but also at the care needs of the palliative patient. In the past they only looked at the last three months, but since the Royal Decree of 21 October 2018, in implementation of the law, the patient has been scaled as a palliative by asking whether one would be surprised if the patient died within the next six to twelve months. That is the so-called PICT scale. There was also a second element which had to be implemented at KB and which we have been waiting for four years now. This concerns the linked need for care: it is considered whether the palliative patient is granted a simple, increased or complete status. Based on the need for care, it is also determined which palliative forfait can be linked to it. The PICT scale has already been put into practice, but we are still waiting for the second scale, hence my question. When will the second KB arrive? Can you explain the progress path and its implementation in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u88	Mrs Van Hoof, my administration has already examined how the new definition of palliative patient can be integrated into the palliative forfait regulation. It is true that right holders who are granted the palliative forfait are also granted the so-called palliative status. However, that statute does not exist legally. It is currently granted to beneficiaries who have received the palliative payment. A few years ago, the study Identification of the palliative patient and assignment of a status related to the severity of the needs: the use of a new tool "PICT." This study was funded by the FPS Public Health. In addition to the identification scale, the PICT as defined in the Royal Decree of 21 October 2018, the study also proposes a need scale, resulting in a three-tier statute: a simple statute, an increased statute and a full statute. The need scale is reduced when the rightholder is identified as palliative on the basis of the PICT scale. Because I am opting for a real recognition of the palliative patient, where, in addition to the palliative forfait, other benefits can be granted to those people, taking into account their needs, I have asked to consider what steps need to be taken to develop such a statute legally correctly. I gave the RIZIV the order to start a study for that purpose. It is also important to assess the budgetary implications of this adjustment. A budget for this study was included in the RIZIV budget. As included in my policy paper, I will also ask the KCE to include in its study programme 2021 a study on the palliative status. As far as timing is concerned, it is not possible at the moment to set a concrete deadline. The use of the PICT demand scale as a basis for granting a simple, increased or fully palliative status depends on the results of the study. It will also be necessary to implement an amendment to the ZIV Act. There is currently no legal basis for a palliative status within the compulsory health insurance. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of the possibility of electronic application of the Staff Regulations, as well as the possibility of electronic consultation of the Staff Regulations by healthcare professionals. Since this possibility does not yet exist, it should also be developed as soon as possible. My personal feeling is that the extension of the palliative status, which also takes into account the needs of those patients, is necessary to support those people and their environment in a naturally very difficult phase of their lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u89	Thank you for the answer, Minister. It is true that the patient's identification was recorded as a palliative in a KB, but the need for care is still not. The palliative forfait is usually requested too late. Now the palliative forfait applies for the last three months, which is very short. This is usually requested only in the last month. It is useful and necessary for this study to be carried out quickly with the results so that the palliative forfait can also be extended to a year, which is already foreseen for identification. I wonder why this aspect takes so much time. After all, the law clearly stated that KB will determine what the need for care and needs will be and how they will be scaled up. That's part of the KB. We've been waiting four years. I hope that you will succeed in your intention to distinguish the statute very clearly, increase it, simply or complete it, so as to help people with not only the forfait but also the wider, as your proposal also states.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u90	Mr President, I too would like to express my best wishes. An article in De Standaard in mid-December showed that a lot of people had difficulty keeping their weight during the lockdown. The article referred to a foreign study carried out among thousands of people in other countries. In the article it was extrapolated to our country, indicating that about one in three had difficulty maintaining its weight and would have arrived through the lockdown. This played especially with people who were already overweight. The article decided that our country would probably know similar figures. Have you been able to take note of this specific study? Do you have any figures for our country? I had already asked for a possible accelerated introduction of measures that you are planning federally. You then referred to the Länder, which are responsible for prevention. That is true, but because of the fragmentation of powers in this country, there are still many powers of obesity at federal level, such as the reimbursement of dietician and psychologist. I know you've been planning something. Is it now intended to introduce this more rapidly in the context of corona and through this study?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u91	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, in the study to which you refer, it is pointed out that obese adults more than others indicate that they have unhealthy eating habits during the corona pandemic, are deteriorating in the area of mental health and report the highest incidence of increased body weight as a result of the measure to stay home as much as possible. This is indeed one of the most widely declared international measures to prevent the further spread of the virus. Since the start of the corona crisis, Sciensano has already conducted five online COVID-19 health surveys. The second April 2020 survey asked for, among other things, length and weight and changes in body weight, dietary habits and exercise. The results showed that 25.6 % of the population aged 18 years and over has been arriving since 13 March 2020 and that the average body mass index is significantly higher than estimated on the basis of the results of the National Health Survey of 2018. The prevalence of obesity in the adult population, estimated on the basis of this second survey, is 19% and is significantly higher than in 2018, then 15.9 %. In view of the seriousness of these figures, these data were analysed in more detail. The results of this analysis indicate an increase in the consumption of sweet and salty refreshments and a decrease in exercise during the first month of the corona pandemic. They were described in a manuscript Short-term Impact of the COVID-19 Confinement Measures on Health Behaviours and Weight Gain Among Adults in Belgium, the unrevised version of which is available at Research Square. As stated in my policy paper, new actions will be established in 2021 within the framework of a National Food and Health Plan, including new nutritional objectives. As far as mental health is concerned, we are in full preparation for a new convention, which focuses on better accessibility and, therefore, reimbursement. This will be introduced as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u92	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You're talking about a better refund. I did not understand from the policy paper that this would be a measure to be introduced after this year. I'll follow up on this. In any case, this is a hopeful signal that the right path is being taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u93	Mr Minister, on 7 February 2019, the draft law amending the Royal Decree of 29 June 2003 on informing the Belgian Focal Point of the European Information Network on Drugs and Drug Addiction was adopted by the Chamber of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u94	It's a long list of initiatives. So far, preparations for the implementing act to which you are asking have not been started. However, Sciensano has already taken an initiative to explore the possibilities and feasibility of setting up such a network of spearheads for the main purpose of both the rapid follow-up of intoxications and related trends and the monitoring of the composition of substances from users, in order to obtain a better follow-up of the Belgian drug market. To this end, consultations were held with some of the major university hospitals in our country to question current practices, needs and obstacles to adequate follow-up of drug-related intoxications. Both the University of Antwerp and the University of Ghent have already acquired expertise in recent years through their participation in European studies Euro-DEN 1 and Euro-DEN 2, studying how better registration of drug intoxications can be developed. Their experiences can certainly contribute to the development of a pilot project. On the other hand, UREG, the emergency registration system of the FPS Public Health, was suspended in 2019. So there is no longer any possibility of falling back on this system to monitor drug incidents. We are looking, together with several partners, at the modalities for the development of the drug incident network. In addition, you asked about the preparations per component. The electronic information sharing by laboratories via the technical platform of the BEWSD, the Belgian Early Warning System Drugs, has been carried out and is in use. The admission procedure for aid centres, emergency services and first aid posts for collecting and receiving suspected drug samples is in a consultation and testing phase. The concept of admission procedure has been tested by the Federal Reference Office of Drugs, Attorney General Jean-Baptiste Andries. Appointments must be made by station with the local police, the parquet and the emergency services. These have not yet been carried out. In the context of the current COVID-19 crisis, BEWSD has launched a test project in which four MSOCs serve as test points to collect drug samples in order to monitor the purity and composition of the drugs. The evaluation of that test project will certainly contribute in the above context. The procedure for obtaining a licence from a provincial transporter at the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products for the transport of suspected drug samples is in the consultation and testing phase. All current steel transports are handled by Sciensano's specialized steel transport department, which has extensive experience in the transport of laboratory samples and has the necessary transport permits. Consultations were also held with the FAGG on the necessary permits for the transport of drug samples if there is a need to work with external transporters in the future. The authorisation procedure for emergency services to call for provincial transporters is still to be planned. In consultation with the Communities, there will be at least 15 BEWSD stations that record drug incidents with questionnaires from users. They report these drug incidents to BEWSD. That too can be planned. The consultation of the BEWSD database by all aid services is in progress. Each aid service can currently obtain a final state of play at the BEWSD. An international database will also be developed in cooperation with the European Drugs Agency EMCDDA, which will be accessible in the future for consultation by relevant professional actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u95	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We have also adopted legislation on this, almost unanimously, with the aim of gaining more knowledge of designer drugs and the new synthetic drugs that are on the market today. They come home to young people via packages and they take these drugs, with great danger. They then end up on the emergency services, have no knowledge of the product and have thrown it away. That way people do not know what is going on in the market. That is the objective of this legislation, which was very technical, with the various elements that you also mentioned. I'm glad some things are in the consultation and testing phase. I regret that some things have yet to be planned. So I will continue to question you about this. Of course I'll give you some time. I've outlined the importance. There's a lot on the market, more and more. Young people are increasingly taking products which are not traditionally known as drugs, but which are new synthetic drugs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u96	Minister, last year we all participated in a fundraising of the expensive medicine Zolgensma for baby Pia, which was needed for the treatment of spinal muscular atrophy. In the meantime, Minister, has a request been made for reimbursement? How's that file coming? How many patients have been treated with Zolgensma for the past year? Has the raffle taken place? Have Belgian patients also taken part in this? How many patients have started treatment with Spinraza in the past year, which is also used for the treatment of SMA?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u97	There is currently a reimbursement procedure in place at the Commission for medicinal products for Zolgensma. This procedure has been launched jointly with the other countries of the BeNeLuxA initiative. Belgium, the Netherlands and Ireland are indeed seeking to carry out a joint HTA assessment of Zolgensma, in which Austria acts as an assessment expert in the procedure. The company AveXis/Novartis has stated its willingness to cooperate on the joint assessment and dialogue on reimbursement. As a result, the HTA agencies in the three countries will coordinate the timing and content of their local HTA procedures. Joint price negotiations within the BeNeLuxA initiative always start with a joint HTA procedure. On the basis of the outcome of the HTA assessment, countries will determine whether the joint assessment will be followed by a joint price negotiation. Since the CTG procedure is under way, it is unfortunately not possible to provide you with more detailed information, as this would jeopardise the proper conduct of the procedure. This applies not only to this dossier, but also to all others in such a case. The dossier was submitted at the end of October and the timeline of the regulation in Belgium will be followed. Regarding the number of patients treated in Belgium in 2019 and 2020, I can say the following. In clinical studies, crowdfunding and the worldwide Managed Access Program of Novartis together, five Belgian centers have gained experience with Zolgensma. The specific number of patients treated does not wish to make the company known. In the Managed Access Program, patients were treated, but the company Novartis does not disclose the number of patients per country. As regards the treatment of SMA with Spinraza or nusiners, I can inform you that at the time of the data extraction from the Belgian SMA register, in particular 22 June 2020, 134 patients were entered with data that started treatment with nusiners since September 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u98	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand you don't want to interfere with the CTG procedure, which is why you're not providing any information. However, this once again leads to the problem of transparency, which we have discussed before. I am particularly sorry that you cannot tell us how many patients are being treated in the five centres. I don't understand that either. After all, it is important to weigh how many patients have been helped with Zolgensma compared to Spinraza or vice versa. However, it is a good thing that the BeNeLuxA procedure, of which my colleague Yoleen Van Camp was part, is being used. Spinraza is also the only medicine currently approved by BeNeLuxA. Let us hope that there will be advice soon and a solution for the patients who need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u99	Mr President, Minister, I think we really need to consider this question. It is about the continuity of cancer care and the diagnosis of cancer. We have talked about this before in the context of the corona crisis. However, I have made it clear that fewer patients report to the emergency services and to the oncologists regarding side effects of cancer therapy. The reason, of course, cannot be that there are fewer side effects due to covid, rather this is a result of fear of going to emergency services or hospitals. I would like to draw your attention to this. Are you aware that the follow-up of the side effects is problematic? Have you discussed this with the hospitals and the doctors? Do you note differences between the first and the second wave here? Indeed, with the exception of that small period in November, there has been a difference in approach to the continuity of care. Do you see any evolution there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u100	Mr President, Mrs Depoorter, the data from the Cancer Register Foundation show that in April 2020, compared with April 2019, the number of cancer diagnoses had fallen by almost half. The latest figures run until 18 September 2020 and show a recovery movement, with the reduction in the number of cancer diagnoses from March to September limited to 14%. This means that about 5,000 cancer diagnoses have not yet been made, which corresponds to about a month of new cancer diagnoses. From June 2020, the number of cancer diagnoses stabilised and the figures were comparable to the number of new diagnoses of the previous year. Delaying regular care was unfortunately necessary to ensure that regular hospital capacity was not exceeded. This also inevitably has an impact on the number of new diagnoses made during this period and on the follow-up or possible modification of treatment, depending on the epidemiological situation, the hospital's capacity and the assessment by the treating physician of the urgency of the treatment. Figures on the number of cancer cases whose follow-up or treatment has been altered or discontinued due to the covid crisis are not available. So there can be no comparison between the first and the second wave. The full impact of the covid crisis and delayed care on follow-up and treatment will only be evaluated after a number of years on the basis of the cancer survival rates available for this period. Of course, it remains important to encourage the population not to delay care themselves and to point out that care in hospitals can be organised safely, with a strict separation between covid and non-covid care.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u101	Unfortunately, Minister, you have not answered the most important part of my question. That's the follow-up to side effects of cancer therapies. In one of our hospitals, three thousand cases per year are normally reported of patients with side effects associated with their cancer therapy. That has now been reduced to 300 cases. This means that only 10% of patients report. The concern is not to alter or discontinue therapy, but to provide care and follow-up to the patient as well as the guarantee that treatment can continue in optimal conditions. I'll give it to you as a point of interest. It is really important to examine this point and to go through it with the oncological centres in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u102	Minister, we have drawn a great deal of attention to this in Parliament, together with various other parties and also with the government, in order to improve the remuneration of both home nurses and nurses in institutions, with one-off and structural measures. It is perhaps also important to say that the Länder, especially Flanders, have certainly not been left behind and have also released more than EUR 1 billion to roll out such measures. This is an important concern of the people in the sector. My question to you is, of course, the federal measures that have been implemented. Since there are several, I would like to know exactly how far each measure stands. Firstly, has the consultation on the White Rage Fund been completed or is it still ongoing? If the consultation is ongoing, what exactly is the timing and, in particular, when will the care staff in the field really feel the measure? When can they count on these resources? Secondly, I come to the consumer cheque which applies to the staff of the institutions and the WGCs and the home nurses. Is that meeting still going on, or is it already over? Thirdly, the additional resources for IFIC. What progress has been made with this measure and have these funds really already been allocated to the people on the ground? Finally, there is a lot to do today in the press about the incentive premium. What is the status of this measure? You have already referred to consultation with the social partners. There was an interesting analysis in De Standaard today about the possibility of making a net fee, so that fewer taxes are withheld. I thought that was an interesting proposal. Maybe that can still be considered? Where are we with that? Is it possible to increase the planned net amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u103	As far as the Health Care Staff Fund is concerned, you know that a budget of EUR 301 million is foreseen for general and psychiatric hospitals for the year 2021. The allocation of resources is determined on the basis of priority needs and the most useful functions to be recruited in order to reduce the workload of the care staff and on the basis of prior local social consultation. €52.8 million has also been allocated to the social Maribel funds of the private and public sector, for the training of care staff and mentoring of nursing trainees in the hospital sector and the home care sector. 48 million is reserved for more self-employed nurses to work. The law on the Health Care Staff Fund does not provide for wage measures, but deals with additional hands around the bed and training efforts. The statutory work for the consumer cheque has been completed. You know, however, that the final award of that cheque by the way in which the RSZ rules are put together depends on the conclusion of collective agreements or a negotiation in the appropriate negotiating committee. Those negotiations are ongoing and can hopefully be concluded soon. The aim is to be able to cash out the checks as soon as possible. The most important thing is that these negotiations take place. Employers should also provide the necessary information to the Maribel funds regarding the number of persons eligible for the cheque. Afterwards, the funds can make the resources available to employers. After those steps have been taken, the health care staff can receive the check. However, that process takes some time. That is why we stated in our announcement on the completion of the measure that it would be something for the coming months and that it could even take time until mid 2021. However, the cheques are also useful for a year. You also asked for the implementation of the social agreement 2021-2022, which covers EUR 600 million over two years, namely EUR 350 million in 2021 and additional EUR 250 million in 2022. Of these 600 million at cruising speed, 500 million are earmarked for wage measures, such as the 100 percent inventory of the wage scales of the IFIC model to improve staff salaries, but also to harmonise between the different sectors. In addition, there will be an administrative merger of the attractive premium, the end-of-year premium and a thirteenth month will be created. A tripartite working group has been set up to monitor the development of professions in the sector. This group has already come together for a first time. Then there is a budget of 100 million for the qualitative improvement of working conditions and the balance between work and private life. This is where collective agreements for the private sector and collective agreements for the public sector must be established. Those negotiations will take place in the course of the year 2021. In my public communication I usually indicated that the structural wage increase should become tangible for the people in mid 2021. That is all I want to say, since we still have a very negotiating course to take. The incentive premium has been completed for the hospital staff. A similar premium is provided for the home care sector. The debate on taxation and the levy has started from the hospital staff. We have never made it a secret that that was a gross amount. I said that very explicitly. I would be very surprised if I had not used the word 'gross' in television programmes. Gross means that contributions and taxes are deducted from the amount. It was also a gross amount of up to EUR 985 for a person who provided full-time benefits. For someone who has performed half-time, it is of course only half that gross amount. We have always communicated in gross terms because it is very difficult to say what the net will mean for everyone. For a net amount, the contributions and the levy must be taken into account. The levy depends on the family situation, so that differs, and on how that premium is paid. Many hospitals, for example, simply add this premium to the year-end premium and thus pay it together with the year-end premium. As a result, hospital staff see a significant levy on the gross amount, as there is a high levy on the end-of-year premium. It is, of course, very disappointing for those people, because then they will see how much contributions and taxes they pay. If there is such a high levy due to the fact that the payment is made in one movement with that of the end-of-year premium which is subject to a high levy, one could say as a consolation that those people have already paid a high levy for the final attack, but it is, of course, very disappointing for them to see that they pay a lot of taxes and contributions in our country. However, we did not opt for a duty-free system. Let me refer you to the last part of my answer. The consumer check was tax-free. Parliament promised a tax-free cheque a long time ago. You see how incredibly long it takes for such a duty-free check to get into the people's wallet. Now, that's a very complicated operation. So we have chosen something that went quickly, a premium at the end of the year, which is part of the wage. That was quick. Some of them were skeptical or they would, but they came. If you do that quickly, it actually means a raise. Wages are subject to contributions and taxes. Honestly, I think we should tell people. Contributions and taxes are paid on wages. There is also a need to pay taxes and contributions on structural wage increases. Fortunately, they also serve to a large extent to finance our social security and health care. I understand, of course, that people were uncomfortablely surprised, especially when they saw the high levy on the year-end premium, which was also charged in many hospitals because the incentive premium was simply added to the year-end premium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic321x.u104	Thank you, Minister, for your clear and comprehensive reply. It's too bad it does take so long. You explained why. There's still a lot of negotiations going on. We will continue to follow this up. In the meantime, I had found the article I was talking about. It was about an opinion in Time. That article provides a solution for doing the same in the same way, that is to say quickly, but still with a lot less restraint, and also through the social partners. That needs to be looked at. I'm certainly not saying you've created false expectations. You have always made it clear that this was a gross amount. You were also asked questions about this in Parliament. Our vision is different in this area. I think people are certainly willing to wait longer if that means that the premium can be higher. In that opinion, therefore, a possible solution is offered to do it in a similar way, so I assume it will be quick, but still with less posture. I agree with you that there are burdens to be paid at work, but I think this is a very different case. This is because it is an incentive premium for the care staff, in these exceptional corona conditions. It can be justified that the costs to be borne in this respect are lower. There is great support for this, both in Parliament and in the government. So perhaps you still want to look at it and still a sleeve can be fitted to it.
