ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic644x.u1	Our prisons have been overcrowded for a long time, but it seems to be worse now than before. This question is already a few weeks old. The mayors of Saint Gillis and Bergen already decided to limit the number of prisoners in prison on their territory. Meanwhile, the Supervisory Board has called on the mayor of Antwerp and the governor to make a similar decision for the Begijnenstraat. In Antwerp it is not yet decided to limit the number of prisoners, but it calls for measures to improve the situation in the short term. The situation is unsustainable at the moment, with an occupation of 175 % of normal capacity. There are 439 places, but there are over 700 prisoners or people in remand. You said in the press that there would be an action plan to spread the prisoners more widely. For Antwerp, this would mean a decrease to 680 prisoners, still well above the actual number of cells. In addition, there would also be a campaign to attract more penitentiary officials. What impact does the decision of the mayors of Saint Gillis and Bergen have on the execution of the sentence? Will the sentence be postponed, too? You have also taken a number of corona measures. For example, you have postponed the entry into force of a number of laws. However, overpopulation is also separate from that. We have to work to the ground in this area. How many files will the execution be postponed for? Is the sentence being moved to other prisons? If so, how many people are they moving to and from? What measures do you plan to take in the very short term, in 2021? Have you already discussed this problem with the mayors to find out where the problems are most and how one can work together to deal with them? If so, what was the outcome of this consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic644x.u2	Mr Van Hecke apologizes for having to chair the Economics Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic644x.u3	Madam President, Minister, after Sint-Gilles and Bergen earlier this month, it is now time for the prison in Antwerp. The Supervisory Committee wants the Mayor and Governor of Antwerp to issue an order to limit the number of detainees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic644x.u4	Mrs. Bury is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic644x.u5	Madam President, Ms Bury is on the Committee on Constitutional and Institutional Renewal. Because the Conference of Presidents took far too long, that meeting started far too late.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic644x.u6	I don't see Mrs. Rohonyi.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic644x.u7	Madam President, Minister, we are facing structural overcrowding in this country, which is worsening every day. It's not new. Recently, trade unions were mobilizing to denounce this situation, which makes it very difficult to work in prisons, a situation aggravated by a lack of staff. I went to meet the guards at the Saint-Gilles prison where the workers are at the end. Whereas it is theoretically expected to have only a maximum of 850 prisoners - a suitable number because the prison's initial capacity is 502 prisoners - there were more than 900 prisoners at the end of November. New arrivals are placed in medical cells, or even in dungeons. This helps to make the situation more difficult for custodians, especially as cases of coronavirus increase. The burmese had to mingle to stop the entrances. Despite this, no significant decline was observed and the problem did not disappear. On the spot, some prison officers hope that the workload will be less burdensome at Haren prison, but they have little hope in the light of today's policy. Indeed, your desire to see the small sentences of less than three years actually served will result in an increase in the number of prisoners. We warned you about that. If the measure is now in the fridge, because you have realized the problem, aggravated by the pandemic context, we fear that you will put it back on the table. Marc Nève, President of the Central Council for Prison Supervision (CCSP), speaks of a "humanitarian crisis" in prisons. The Human Rights League calls on the government to take steps to reduce prison overcrowding, in short to negotiate a 180-degree shift from the current policy. Minister, how many commitments do you envisage in prisons so that prison officers can work under acceptable conditions? Do you have any other statutory commitments in addition to the 100 that are planned in Brussels? Finally, in addition to the answers given by Haren prison and detention centres, what structural measures do you intend to take to address the problem of overcrowding within a reasonable time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic644x.u8	Madam President, Mrs Bury is currently voting in the Constitutional Commission. It also wishes to refer to its written preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic644x.u9	It may still replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic644x.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, your questions prove that you do not care about the historical problem of overpopulation, and I can, of course, appreciate that alone. We must not overlook these problems, not only in the interests of the detainees but also in the interests of the safety and well-being of the staff. The Central Supervisory Board and the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Unhuman or humiliating Treatment or Punishment are watching this and have repeatedly been strict on our country in their reports. We're not just gonna put that next to us. However, you know that there are no miracle solutions to solve this problem. In other words, this is a long-term work, and we are also taking short-term steps. I'd like to give you the facts first. We are faced with overpopulation and the figures are rising. However, this is largely due to the fact that we are the victims of the remarkable success of police and justice in Sky ECC investigations. On 1 December, 558 persons were arrested in that file. No other file in our country has led to the arrest of so many people. At the moment there are 212 persons in remand. The 212 is only about the files of the federal parquet and the parquet of Antwerp. So I'm not talking about all the other parquets. It's probably about 300 people. So these 300 people are in custody because of one file, Sky ECC. That is the biggest battle we have waged for organised crime in our country over the last decades. It's 212 people. 116 people were arrested in federal criminal records. For the Antwerp parquet, it's about 96 arrests. I'm guessing that for all the parquets together, it's about 300 people. With them one can already fill one prison of our country. With regard to the current development of overpopulation, two other aspects should be highlighted. First, it is only since September that the sentences not carried out between December 2020 and the end of April 2021 are carried out on a monthly basis. We are talking about a total of 5,728 sentences in addition to those that constitute the normal flow of inmates. This necessarily results in a significant impact on the prison population. This additional movement will continue until the end of February. Second, as always, the prison population follows cycles. Every year, it falls during the big holidays and increases during the legal year until Christmas leave, again decreasing in early January and increasing again until the end of June, and so on. We are in a time when, every year, it is at its highest level. As regards the impact of the mayors' decisions and the consultations in this area, the decisions of the mayors were communicated to the investigators and the prosecutors with whom the prisons in question cooperate most closely. The prosecution and the investigating judge are aware of this. There are, of course, no restrictions on the detention of prisoners from the penitentiary administrations vis-à-vis those actors. That is not, of course, the competence of the prison system in the light of the independence of the judiciary. However, we note that investigators regularly decide to lock suspects in prisons other than those envisaged in the mayors' decisions. They will decide on this autonomously. At present, the execution of the sentence is not postponed. However, we are monitoring the situation closely and, if necessary, we will examine with the Public Prosecutor what measures are possible. Local directors also have contact with local authorities in order to meet their decisions as effectively as possible. I will discuss the situation in Antwerp shortly. Mrs De Wit asked for detailed figures. As far as the prison of Bergen is concerned, the male population is indeed below the target figure of 344 men. On 14 December, that population was 342. As far as women are concerned, the maximum capacity is 40 prisoners and that prison currently has 47 women. The situation is hampered by the fact that the other eight existing women's departments are already heavily occupied. In Saint Gillis, on 23 November, the maximum number was set at 850 prisoners, while that day there were 910 prisoners. In the meantime, there are 864. So we're on the right track. I would like to add two more prisons on which there have been no questions but which I would like to address in order to complete my answer. This is Tournai and Nivelles. For Tournai, the order has not yet been taken. The administration was asked to react by 20 December to a proposal for a text concerning restrictions on the occupation of a prison wing. This reaction is ongoing. The current population of the facility will ensure compliance with the applications issued. With regard to Nivelles, the order of 25 November sought to limit the population to 248 prisoners. This objective is being achieved. Yesterday, Tuesday, 14 December, there were 245 inmates in this facility. Mrs Dillen, some media are suggesting that prison capacity should be rehired in the Netherlands and you are asking for my position on this. I can say very clearly that this is not a realistic option at the moment, as renting cannot bring any relief in the short term. A prison is not hired in a few steps; an international treaty must be concluded for this purpose, and that will soon take a year. A difference with the situation in the past is that the Netherlands was then asking party, because at that time the Netherlands had too many buildings and staff, for which a solution was sought. This is no longer the case, because the Netherlands has reduced its capacity and the number of staff has also been reduced to the effective number required. Mrs De Wit and Mrs Dillen, you asked questions about the overpopulation. Prisons have no impact on the influx of detainees and therefore suffer the consequences of the prosecution and criminal execution policies carried out by the judiciary. In hospitals it is said that maximum capacity has been achieved and that no one can access it, but in prisons the judiciary takes the decision and the prison system has to accept it. Fortunately, important master plans for humane detention have been made in recent decades. Those master plans always had as a philosophy to provide additional capacity, which takes time. In any case, we are moving this legislature forward with our longer-term approach. At the end of this year we will open the prisons of Haren and Dendermonde and at the end of 2023 we will open the prison in Ypres, after the renovation. I also mention the prison of Antwerp. The three forensic psychiatric centres, particularly in Paifve, Wavre and Aalst, will provide a capacity of 620 additional places, with not only more breathing space, but also adapted reception facilities for interns. The prisons of Vresse and Leopoldsburg will also offer additional capacity. In combination with the transition houses and the detention homes, we think that we will be able to create an additional 2.440 places in the coming years. These are net places that are at the top of existing capacity. However, I would like to stress immediately that, in my view, we should also review our view of prison sentences with the drafting of a new penal code. The future penal code will also determine a number of crimes that will not be sanctioned or will no longer be sanctioned by imprisonment, which will eventually lead to fewer detentions. After all, prison is not always the most appropriate punishment, as Beccaria already knew. Finally, of course, we also want to invest in better guidance for our prisoners. I thought we sent out the instructions for the detention plans last summer. We will start with detention plans for people convicted of terrorist acts and will extend that step by step to others. With a good detention plan and with appropriate guidance, because we are also creating the function of the detention counsellor, we also hope to reduce the recurrence in this area and thus in the long term also the influx into our prisons. Work must also be done in the short term. With the placement policy, we will look much more closely at the convicts we place in which prisons. It is therefore a matter of spreading the maximum number of prisoners and ensuring that detention takes place under acceptable conditions. For example, in every prison, it is investigated where additional beds can be placed, so that prisoners at least do not have to sleep on a mattress on the ground. This search is not new either; in the past many bunk beds have already been placed. In doing so, prison per prison is aimed at achieving an acceptable balance between various factors: infrastructure, capacity distribution and profile of the detainees. I will look at the short-term measures on Antwerp in a moment, and I will also mention my plan to recruit staff more quickly in order to alleviate the shortages. I now come to the various questions of the members about the prison of Antwerp in the Begijnenstraat. The mayor of Antwerp did indeed send me a letter on 26 November 2021. In the meantime, I informed the mayor of the agreements I made with the trade unions on 29 November 2021. There have been contacts between our respective cabinet heads. There are also contacts with the Governor of Antwerp. A consultation will take place on 21 December 2021 to discuss the difficult situation in the Antwerp arrest house and to look for solutions together. The following parties will participate: the Governor and, invited by the Governor in consultation with myself, the Mayor of Antwerp, the Cabinet of the Flemish Minister for Enforcement, the Executive Board of the Antwerp Arrest House, the Central Board of the Prisons, the Local Police of Antwerp, the Chairman of the Court of First Instance, the Attorney General of Antwerp, the Prosecutor of the King of Antwerp, the President of the Antwerp Appeal Court, the Federal Emergency Planning Service and the Liaison Officer of Antwerp. It is important to repeat that we are looking at which prisons additional bunk beds can be placed. Our ambition is to reduce the number of prisoners to 680. Last week 12 transfers were already made from the Antwerp prison to the Merksplas prison. In addition, another 3 internees were transferred to the prison of Merksplas. This week 13 transfers are planned to Beveren. Next week, 25 shipments to Hoogstraten, Root and Leuven Central will follow. So you will notice that we have met and agreed and that these agreements are now being implemented. Mrs Dillen, as for the other prisons, there is a budget for hygiene for the Antwerp prison. Among other things, in the context of the pandemic, the sanitary and hygiene conditions in our prisons have been added. The aim is to maintain and continue to support that higher level of cleanliness. It is, of course, up to the prison directors to use the prisoners needed to ensure the cleanliness of the establishment. The necessary conservation works are also being carried out. I know that the prison of Antwerp has been extinct. However, thanks, among other things, to these works, the infrastructure is still acceptable at the moment, of course, pending the new prison. I would like to say once again that detention homes are intended for the detention of convicts with a maximum prison sentence of three years. In this respect, detention homes avoid the imposition of additional detentions on our detention homes. Then I come to the situation in the Brussels prisons. Mrs Bury asked questions on specific points in the protocol. There are a total of 15. Firstly, on measures against overpopulation, the buffer line is being reactivated. The Brussels prisons, together with two other prisons, are given priority in the cascade of the towns of Marneffe and Saint-Hubert. Secondly, staff will be involved in the evaluation of complaints law in the coming weeks. Thirdly, for the purpose of eating meals by the staff, the operation of the equipment is blocked for half an hour per shift. The daily schedule is adapted and communicated accordingly. Fourthly, the staff who occupy the posts in the tenth section and in wing E can submit to a self-test twice a month. Fifth, in the very short term there will be wing meetings where the workings of the wing will be discussed with the staff and shiftworkers. The annual calendar shall contain at least four dates on which meetings take place on Tuesday or Thursday between 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. and involving the staff member of the wing. Sixth, participation of one shift member in the Executive Board briefing on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Friday is possible. There is a possibility to raise problems of the wing. Seventh, there will be a briefing between the staff and the shiftlifters at the start of each shift to cover the daily schedule. Eighth, specific wings work with firmer teams. Wing A-Annex and wing E. Ninth, the movement from wing E to the individual walks in wing C. Participation of the staff of wing C at the porch. Tenth, making the multivalent hall of wing E accessible to lawyers. The fitness of officers of wing E takes place in a wing other than normal: wing D. A cop is a fatik, so a convict who performs household duties in prison. 11th, the leave note will be reviewed on days off. A proposal of leave note is delivered to the unions and will test for evaluation. Twelfth, on answering questions from detainees, the contact of each wing and the administrative services is structured in time and in persons. The thirteenth, with regard to disciplinary sanctions, a working group composed of the regime coordinator, a Disciplinary Officer, seven penitentiary officers and one of the polygroup will meet several times. 14th, the consultation offices per wing on the basis of a planned agenda for the communities will be reactivated. Finally, preparation Haren: officials from different domains will gradually move to Haren for a few weeks to help write the processes out based on their expertise. Mrs Bury asked why the 20 points have not yet been achieved. There are 15 of them and a great deal of effort is being made by the Executive Board to respect and implement the protocol. Most points have been largely or partly realized, but of course we aim for full execution. We understand very much the difficult conditions in which work is to be carried out, but the fact that this protocol is being stopped regularly does not make it easy for the government to implement it quickly and in an orderly manner. For example, scheduled meetings had to be postponed due to the strike last Thursday and Friday. This indicates how complex the problem is. I now answer Mr Boukili's first question about the number of commitments we are considering. A French-language recruitment examination is under way for which interviews are scheduled until mid-January. As part of these selections, we will have interviews with 130 candidates. A selection of Dutch speakers is also under way for which 44 candidates are registered. The interviews will end this week. Currently, about 10 positions are open, but we are recruiting more and more so that the staff who requested a transfer can obtain it. To answer your second question, Haren's future framework is broader than the current framework because of the infrastructure and we therefore expect more recruitment than the current framework allows. I'm getting to my epilogue. I hope, in your name too, that I will pay tribute to all the staff in our institutions: the staff of the psychosocial services, the administration, the technical services, the medical staff and the care staff and the management, who give the best of themselves every day in very difficult circumstances. We are also taking the necessary initiatives for them to tackle, in particular, staff shortages. Together with the Minister of Civil Service, we are examining how to simplify the selection procedures and reduce the lead time. After all, we note that the selection procedure is administratively difficult, both for the administration and for the candidates. This means that we cannot respond sufficiently quickly to staff needs, but also that candidates will drop out during the selection procedure. A first pilot project of this simplified selection procedure was launched in Antwerp on 6 December. It is too early to publish the results. Potential candidates may register until 20 December, since the registration period runs from 6 to 20 December, i.e. for 14 days. However, some 40 candidates have already applied, which is good news. In the past, the selection procedure soon took six months. Now we work for the statutory recruitment with an interview. So people are now able to apply more quickly, and because the registration period is shorter, they will also be less likely to drop out. With the long selection procedure of the past, it has sometimes happened that candidates have found work elsewhere in the meantime. At the end of November, we launched a campaign to highlight the job of penitentiary monitoring assistant in the labour market. It's about the Da's Just campaign. We don't have any concrete results yet, but to give you an example: at the beginning of November we ran a similar campaign for care workers in prisons, and 175 people have already applied for 40 vacant places. For eight vacancies for social assistants, there were 96 candidates. For the 27 vacant relationships for psychiatric nurses, we have 52 candidates. For the educators we have three vacant places and 27 candidates. So the campaign is really encouraging. In this way, we can freshen up and modernise the image of justice, in addition to the foundation of justice that we want to improve, and, of course, attract the right people to do so. In addition, a pilot project on mental decoupling was launched specifically for a group of security personnel in the Antwerp prison. On the basis of intervisions, staff will be able to determine what impressions they experience in mentally disconnecting, what the needs are, and then what tools they get, to help with that. Such projects will certainly benefit the general well-being of our staff. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope I have convinced you that we are not putting our heads in the sand for the problems and that we are fighting on various fronts, both in the long term and in the short term, with various measures. Madam President, that concludes my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic644x.u11	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply. It is very good that solutions are sought. However, they are often long-term and not short-term solutions. That's still problematic. It's a good thing you're pointing out that it's almost the fault of the Justice Department. Police and the Justice Department have worked so well that there is now room too short. Minister, these words are, of course, very cynical. I understand that, too. After all, we should all be pleased that justice works well. It is the responsibility of the government to ensure that the rest of the chain can follow. The signal that we want to send now must not be that the Justice Department should take it easy, because the rest cannot follow. I don't think that's the signal you want to give. However, I repeat that it is the responsibility of the government to ensure that the rest of the chain also has a follow-up. I'm glad you indicated that the sentence will not be postponed. During the previous legislature, an idea was once launched about quotas in the context of pre-trial detention, which is a very bad idea. I am therefore very glad that you are not aware at the moment that it is no longer possible to do so. However, we must have a solution. Minister, you have just mentioned the updating of your master's plans in your policy paper. I think it would be useful for you to come to the committee as soon as possible so that we can have a debate on this and look at it. I'm guessing you're thinking in court years. The prison in Haren is for 2022, and unless time has gone very quickly in recent days, it is 2021, Minister. 2022 is still next year. Moreover, the FPCs and the new prisons in Leopoldsburg and Antwerp are no longer in favour of this legislature, I fear. You may contradict me, but that means that I think they are for the very long term. We have no solution today with regard to the additional net capacity. I think you really need to look at other solutions. Renting a prison abroad can be a piste. Mr Geens and Mr Francken went on another track in the previous legislature, namely those who are not legal here, for their punishment abroad. We worked very well together to clear places. Whoever's arrested after an investigation can get a seat. People who have to be punished here can get places without being stacked like cans in a rack. That is not correct. Minister, there is a real challenge coming to you and I really believe you will have to look a little out of the box. It is good that we are working on additional staff and that there will be additional capacity, but in the short term this will unfortunately not bring any relief. Of course, it is not entirely your responsibility, in the sense that it is a historic problem, but I hope that the Justice Department will continue to do its job. You say that we need to think about the usefulness of the punishment and that the new penal code will no longer punish many of the offences, thereby reducing the pressure. I can imagine that you wish to do so, Minister, but the facts for which you no longer wish to apply for effective prison sentences under the new penal code are also matters that are dealt with as an alternative rather than an effective prison sentence today. I don't think that's what the profits are going to be. Moreover, I do not see in the Sky file, for example, any facts for which you will no longer propose prison sentences in the new penal code. We must certainly have the debate on the usefulness of the punishment, but you will not find any comfort in that. I wish you every success in looking for further long-term solutions, Minister, but solutions are certainly so important in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic644x.u12	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. You have covered the 15 points of the protocol well. You say that they were partially or largely complied with. Meanwhile, however, a strike announcement was already made for Christmas. There is a certain error and it seems that this was not met. You list, but it is not clear where the acute problem is. There are a lot of points that should not be respected, otherwise this would not be in line with the December strike commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic644x.u13	Minister, I was particularly shocked by something. You said that it was the judicial authority that decided on the sentences handed down and that, therefore, the prisons had only to assume by carrying out the same sentences. I believe that it is not on these prisons that the whole effort to receive prisoners in good conditions should be based. It is up to the government to take responsibility for providing better working conditions for officers and reducing prison overcrowding – as I have not been able to ask my question, I allow myself to be a little longer. This involves the diversification of sentences. You say that this part is contained in your reform of the Penal Code, but when we analyse the Sexual Penal Code, we are mainly moving towards longer prison sentences. This is not at all capable of reducing the prison population. With regard to infrastructure in some prisons and in particular in Saint-Gilles prison, there is an urgent need for certain renovations before even opening Haren prison. You have not answered this question when there are major problems, particularly with regard to electricity – which is no longer at all standard and therefore endangers both workers and detainees – or with hot water failures that force inmates to take cold showers. As for the detention centres, you know that my party is extremely attached to them. Some municipalities are reluctant to do so, in particular because the neighbourhood is reluctant to do so. For now, this is the case in Verviers. In fact, questions were foreseen on this subject. I think it is also your role to be able to reassure the local authorities about this. In addition, the minimum service set up during strikes must be assessed. With regard to respect for the fundamental rights of detainees, I can mention everything that concerns the care provided by doctors, psychologists, moral assistance or interviews with lawyers. I say again, your words have shocked me and they will shock the agents, especially those I have had the opportunity to meet personally. On December 3, I was in Saint-Gilles prison. By chance, this visit took place during the strike. They told me about the lack of administrative staff, the lack of social workers, the fact that this caused delays in the follow-up of cases relating to leave and prison leave, and thus the impact that this ultimately had on the reintegration of prisoners. You'll tell me that a budget has been released for recruitment. But as with hospital staff, if we do not improve the working conditions of staff at the same time, it is not effective. It is not enough to release a budget envelope for recruitment to be ipso facto. I can therefore only encourage you to continue your efforts in consultation with the trade unions. This is very important, especially when trade unions put very concrete proposals on the table. In addition, I also encourage you to meet the mayors, and not just the mayor of Antwerp; that of Saint-Gilles, in particular, is very demanding. Finally, if your pilot projects are very positive, they will not only be implemented in the beautiful Antwerp region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic644x.u14	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your detailed answer, which addresses various aspects of the issue. I fully agree with you on our prison policy and the question of the Penal Code. I fully agree with you when you say that prison must be the last resort. When sentencing offenders, prison must be the last resort. Given the rate of recidivism in Belgium, which is among the highest, if not the highest, in Europe, it can be said that only a prison response is not adequate. She doesn't fix the problem. On the contrary, it can even make it worse. There are young people who go back to prison for stupidity and become criminals there. Having said that, I have heard everything you have said, Minister. Frankly, I wouldn't say you're not doing anything. You do a lot of things. You're making a lot of plans. But I have a problem: how are these projects coherent and adequate and how do they meet the expectations of the field? For talking to people in the field, I see they're waiting for something else. They are waiting for other initiatives. When I say that there is such a project or initiative of the minister, they say to me: "Yes, that's good, but that's not what we need right away." The question is not whether you're doing anything, but whether what you're doing is what people expect on the ground. In my view, the answer is negative since these trade union organisations, these workers continue to strike, to give notice. The answers provided do not solve the problems. I repeat what I say almost every time: let us start from the needs identified on the ground to set up projects at the level of justice and in prison policy. This seems relatively simple, but apparently it is very complicated to implement. I think that would prevent you from taking notice of a strike as you move forward on certain points but in a way that is out of step with your needs. Finally, I still have a staff question. You said that recruitment was under way and that the framework would be expanded, particularly in Haren prison. This means that there will be more jobs to be filled. Accurate figures are not yet available. I don't know if there are any. But most importantly, are the planned hirings statutory or planned according to the Rosetta model? Are you going to maintain the Rosetta system for future hires, which is the main source of turnover in prisons, and does not allow candidates to be trained on the basis of their experience in this field? Indeed, from the age of 26, the contracts are no longer valid in this model.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic644x.u15	Mr Boukili, this is an increase of 120 full-time equivalents, mainly statutory ones. Rosetta status is the exception, as you know.
