ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u1	The meeting was called to order at 2.24 p.m. and chaired by Ms. Eliane Tillieux, Chair. The meeting was opened at 2.24 p.m. and chaired by the president, Eliane Tillieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u2	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u3	Minister of the Federal Government present at the opening of the sitting: At the opening of the meeting, the Minister of the Federal Government: Alexander De Croo.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u4	I propose that you include in the agenda of today's plenary session: - the bill confirming the Royal Decree of 28 October 2021 declaring the epidemic emergency situation concerning the coronavirus pandemic VOCID-19, Nos. 2295/1 to 3. I propose that you enter on the agenda of today's plenary session: - the draft law ratifying the Royal Decree of 28 October 2021 declaring the epidemic emergency concerning the Coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic, Nos 2295/1 to 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u5	Madam President, on behalf of the majority, I am tabling a motion to add this item to our agenda today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u6	A motion was tabled by Mr Franky Demon, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere, and reads as follows:"In application of Article 17.3 of the Rules of Procedure, we ask that the agenda of the plenary session should be subject to the legislative proposal for the ratification of the Royal Decree of 28 October 2021 declaring the outbreak of the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic, No. 2295/1, of today 10 November 2021 is added.' A motion was tabled by Messrs. Franky Demon, Ahmed Laaouej, Wouter De Vriendt and Benoît Piedboeuf and Mrs Maggie De Block and Ms Melissa Depraetere and is worded as follows: "In accordance with rule 17.3 of the House's Rules of Procedure, we request that Bill No. 2295/1 confirming the Royal Order of 28 October 2021 declaring the epidemic emergency situation concerning the VOCID-19 coronavirus pandemic be added to the agenda of today's plenary session, that is, this 10 November 2021." I propose that the chairmen take a decision on this point of order. I suggest that the chairmen of the political groups take a stand on this order.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u7	Madam President, I would like to ask you a practical question about the organisation of my group. Is a technical interruption planned later?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u8	We are probably going to interrupt our work briefly tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u9	Madam President, can you tell me where or when this point will be taken up in our work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u10	This bill will be the new item 8 on the agenda. We'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u11	Prime Minister, so our country failed in Glasgow at COP26. We have failed to produce a common agreement between the federal and regional governments. This failure is due first of all to the Flemish Government, which, from the moment it itself decided not to commit itself to the European Union's recommendations on reducing greenhouse gases, prevented any possibility of agreement. But it is also the collective failure of an impossible climate governance in Belgium, despite the citizen and associative marches, despite the record of the terrible floods last July. Ladies and gentlemen, what is left of us if even the climate emergency, the structural disruption that will affect future generations, does not deserve a national union? For me, the saddest thing is the announced character of this tragedy. We witnessed a kind of passive act of disagreement, as if the dice had been thrown in advance, as if it were not all very serious, not very serious to fail when the whole world was a witness. I didn't hear any real regrets, but simply incarnations of the "we still have time" style. Well, no, we don't have time! The perfume of resignation around this failure is even more disturbing than the failure itself. This is deeply regrettable and serious! Has federalism of cooperation lived permanently in this country, as long as it once existed? Should we really resolve to see our federalism dependent on the hazards of climate nationalism after having known those of health nationalism? Prime Minister, how will you remedy this failure? How are you going to make up for this failure, which is also, whether we like it or not, that of the federal government?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u12	Prime Minister, there is not a word hard enough to describe this failure at the Glasgow Conference. We are talking in particular about unconsciousness and irresponsibility. This is probably one of Belgium's worst performances since these climate conferences exist. But the most pathetic thing is to see that today we no longer know very well who is part of your government. Can one think that the PS is still part of your government when one hears the statements of Mr Magnette, who goes so far as to ask that the ministers concerned move from speech to action, as if he were not concerned himself, as if his party were not concerned? I wonder what the Deputy Prime Minister Dermagne thinks, who is also competent on these issues. The same is true when we hear the statements of the president of the MR, when we see the ecologist family pointing only to Flanders and the responsibility of the N-VA. We knew this would be a difficult negotiation. In 2015, it took a year for the federated entities and the federal state, at the end of successive meetings, to agree on a common roadmap. During this legislature, the first meeting took place in March. Another was held in June. In addition, as early as September, Ms. Khattabi stated that Ms. Demir was an irresponsible climate minister. These remarks may not have been able to strike the right balance and optimal negotiations. I also take note of the statements made by the Walloon environmental minister who threw the sponge and said that there will be no short-term agreement. Prime Minister, I ask you to take your hand and take the necessary steps to reach a short-term agreement so that we can present the world with a serious plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u13	Prime Minister, a month ago to the day, on 10 October, we were between 50,000 and 70,000 walking the streets of Brussels to ask Belgium to be alongside the most ambitious states to meet the challenge of climate issues. I was there, there were young people, elders, Walloons, Flemish people, Brusselsers. All these people around me were there to demand strong measures to combat global warming. It is about our survival to all, in the South as well as in the North, rich countries and poor countries, and it is more than minus one. We are all affected, poor countries even more than we are. Today, in the middle of COP26, when all eyes are riveted on our country, Belgium does not have an intrabelge agreement to present in Glasgow. We show our failure in front of the whole world. A small country, with three Regions, has not yet been able to measure the urgency and the need to reach a single voice in Glasgow and to weigh in the debate. Of course, I want to point the N-VA and its Minister of the Environment. But the time is at a standstill rather than at the trial – that of N-VA and all the negotiators. Time's up. Prime Minister, what do you intend to do to take this issue back in hand and bring it to a successful conclusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u14	Mr Prime Minister, a few days ago you honked in Glasgow that Belgium is an example and we are going for it. Ambition, ambition and even more ambition. However, what does it turn out to be? You don't even have an agreement in Belgium. Then why are you honking in Glasgow? This is where we have to fix it. This is where we have to find an agreement. Prime Minister, how can you proceed? There's an emergency, Prime Minister. During the summer, we saw the untenable consequences of climate change through flooding. What are we witnessing in Belgium? This country holds the world record for the number of climate ministers per capita. No country has more ministers in this area! However, the latter are unable to agree. It is shameful, Prime Minister, when we see that more than 50,000 people have demonstrated! Young people strike in schools to recall the climate emergency, and what is being done in Belgium? We're fighting. This can't go on! In Glasgow, you should have said that there was a need for energetic measures, by stopping believing – because that's what you negotiated – that green capitalism was going to solve everything. It is the expansion of the carbon market and the right to pollute that we are talking about, thinking that the law of supply and demand – Adam Smith's invisible hand – would settle everything. What is going on, ladies and gentlemen? We're going to give carbon quotas to multinationals. Five of them are responsible in Belgium for 20% of carbon air pollution. Five! Not one more. And what do we do? They are given carbon quotas, many of which are free! How many gifts did they get? In eight years, a gift of 190 million euros to Arcelor Mittal and 28 million to BASF. So, for multinationals, it's polluter-non-payer, but it's polluter-payer for workers! The people are tired of this double standard, Prime Minister! Take measures!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u15	Mr Hedebouw, you are well aware that the European countries in Glasgow are a block of 27 countries, each with very ambitious targets. These objectives are far more ambitious than one could have believed a few years ago. Fit for 55 forces all Member States to be more ambitious, which is a good thing. At European level, we can succeed in attracting other countries and forcing them to use the same standards as we do. The discussion on how to achieve this 55% ambition in Europe has not yet been fully completed. In Europe, too, there is still discussion about the right and most cost-effective way to divide efforts with our 27-country club and how we support each other to make those efforts. Therefore, the fact that at Belgian level there is still a discussion on how we are going to achieve this objective together is a logical one. There is also a discussion at European level. The discussion at European level is not intended to call into question the 55%. No one's calling them into question in our country. European ambition has pushed us all forward. But the way in which this is articulated is a discussion which is still taking place at European level as well. At Belgian level, this is being organised within the National Climate Commission for the time being. There is a rotation of the presidency, which is normal in a country like Belgium. Personally, I respect the constitutional way it is organised. The presidency is rotating and now belongs to Philippe Henry's cabinet. He sent a first non-paper as a basis for discussion. I note that several governments have put forward very detailed climate plans in recent weeks. That level of detail is a good thing. Finally, everyone understands what it's about. However, there is still work to be done to calculate everything and to find out what this means in concrete terms for reducing our emissions. It is logical that some time should be allowed to do this properly and to ensure that the climate plans of the different entities have the same level of detail and quality. A final discussion could then be held. At present, the plans do not have the same level of detail, which is necessary to reach a conclusion. It is true that the government has been ambitious with its additional reductions of 50 million tonnes of greenhouse gases. That's right. The federal government has decided to take over half: 25 million tonnes. The federal started work a few months ago. On October 8, we clarified how to do this. However, other governments are currently at a lower level of detail. Calculations and negotiations are under way. As far as Glasgow is concerned, this situation in no way weakens the European position. The latter is firm and has an effect on three dimensions. The first element is to say that if we live in a more sustainable way with 500 to 600 million in the world, it will clearly have an effect! But the second and third elements are probably even more important. The second element can allow space for innovations. That is where our opinion is different from that of Mr. Hedebouw, who claims that technology can't solve anything. This government has a different perspective: humanity solves its problems with progress and not with retrograde progress, as you want. Our position is clearly different. And thirdly, from a European point of view, we are the world's largest trader. If the others want to trade with us, it will be according to the same rules. Therefore, if our rules are very ambitious, it will force other countries to follow us. This Belgian position within Europe is a very strong position and we will detail what is being done in our country. From this perspective, I am waiting for all other plans of equivalent quality, and then we can start this discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u16	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Recently, it has been reported that Belgium is moving from 40th to 49th place in the annual ranking of climate and policy performance in reducing greenhouse gases. I hear federal ambition. I hear a lot of plans and words, but I see few measures. We owe this pataquès to COP26. You tell us, "Don't worry! We're still talking. Everything is fine, Madame Marquise." Unfortunately, I think there is something to be more and more worried about. Perhaps the European position is not affected by the Belgian position, but I think that the Belgian position today within Europe is very much affected. It is as if, in general, and I am not only targeting the federal government, there is not yet sufficient consideration of the urgency. We are not yet up to the stakes. I hope everyone will mobilize to do so. I thank you, however, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u17	Prime Minister, I think you would have been well inspired to recognize the failure. You said: "All this is normal. We're continuing the discussions." No, you can't trivialize this failure! This is a serious failure recognised as such by all commentators, including in your majority by some political parties. Yes, we must take note of this serious failure. It is now necessary to change method, change tempo and quickly take over the hand. You're still the prime minister of this country. I think that in this capacity you bear a particular responsibility for this failure and for the future of what may no longer be a failure. What I am asking you is indeed to take over and have this Belgian plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions very quickly. That is what all Belgians expect today from your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u18	Prime Minister, thank you. I hear your answer and I understand you're sharing my anger. I repeat, the time is not at trial; it is at a standstill and you will be able to count on the PS to help you. Mr. Hedebouw, it takes time to negotiate. Brussels, Walloon, Flemish, federal parliamentarians: all of them have been around a table and we have reached an agreement. How dare you criticize the lack of agreement when you have not been ruined from participating in the compromise we have found. For months, you have not tried to search for this compromise and you have not signed the resolution. You haven't achieved a single deal in your life! Even in Europe, you abstained on the Climate resolution; you did not participate in the agreement in Brussels, Namur. Our resolution wants climate neutrality. Finally, you're not so different from Mrs. Demir. You don't bring a solution to the situation. You're never on the side of solutions! You do show, wind, but you only know how to negotiate with yourself and your slogans! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u19	What a pleasure! We can finally have a substantive debate. Prime Minister, I am not against technology. The difference I have with you and with the PS and tutti quaanti is to believe that the market economy, that green capitalism will solve the problem. Let a Liberal minister be convinced, I understand, but let the PS be convinced too, I do not understand at all! That's my problem! How can we now believe that carbon quotas, which are nothing but pollution quotas, are the solution? Today you are creating a capitalist market for carbon rights. At the level of the most polluting companies, 90 per cent of them have paid nothing since 2008 because the State pays their own carbon quotas. These are gifts to multinationals! This is the substantive debate we must have! I believe in public initiative. I believe in a state that protects its citizens, invests billions against the market, in renewable energy, in alternative energy production. I don't believe in the capitalist market. This is the profound distinction between a large part of this ecologist movement and this government composed of right-wing and left-wing parties but which agree on one point:business as usual!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u20	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is being attacked on all sides: in Greece, in Spain, and now even a new front is being opened in Poland. Illegal migrants are imported by dictator Lukashenko with planes full and released on the Polish border. That Polish border is also our border. These illegal migrants do not want to go to Poland, they want to go to Great Britain, Germany and Belgium. Fortunately, these Poles are not as weak as we are. They defend their country and guard their borders. Poland sent a total of 12,000 soldiers to guard their borders. It's necessary. They're even physically attacked by rogue hordes of illegal migrants. Yet they remain courageous, because the Poles know what is at stake. The Polish Huzars saved us from an invasion of the Ottoman hordes in 1683. At the time, the whole of European civilisation had collapsed. Once again, strong Poland is defending the weak Western Europe against an invasion. Instead of supporting Poland, Minister De Sutter says that it is unacceptable for Poland to close its borders and calls on them to let these illegal migrants into Europe and grant them asylum. What a left-wing world weirdness of your government that is. Dictator Lukashenko rubs his hands when he sees so much weakness. Show some strength for once. Show that Western Europe will not be blackmailed by communist dictators. Show that we still have balls and send our army to guard our European external borders during this crisis. Help the Poles build physical border barriers. In addition to that defense, of course, we must also attack. What additional sanctions will you take together with the EU to teach the communist dictator Lukashenko a lesson? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u21	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, chaos, tension and misery have been seen in recent days at the border between Poland and Belarus. After the hijacking of a European plane flying between two European capitals, we already knew what the regime in Minsk was capable of, but Belarus goes even further, with unseen cynicism. Human misery is used as a political weapon against the European Union. Thousands of migrants were misled and are now being abused in a horrible geopolitical game. I speak clearly about the European border, Prime Minister, because it is not just Poland's problem. The only thing I agree with Mr Van Langenhove on is that that border is also our border. The outer border is also our border. What happens over there is about us, too. We are not on the same wavelength with Poland in many areas. We must continue to dare to say this, but if we are to call for the principles of the European Union to be respected, then we must now also actively protect those principles at the European external border in Poland. As far as principles are concerned, we must also talk about the people who need help. Belarus has for years ignored the rights of its own citizens. What would it be about the rights of displaced migrants? Those people are in the middle of nowhere. Winter is on its way and a humanitarian tragedy is on its way, blasting the European border. Prime Minister, how will the European Union act against Belarus to put an end to the cynical game of power? How will we support Poland in protecting the European external border?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the situation at the Polish border is a problem in Poland, but it is also a European problem that we must address at European level. The instrumentalisation of human lives is absolutely reprehensible. This shows once again that the sanctions we are imposing against Belarus, for example, are right and that the fact that new sanctions are being investigated and that our country supports them is right. The way in which such regimes, to which some people used to resort in the past, deal with human lives is absolutely reprehensible. The European Border and Coast Guard Agency Frontex has offered Poland very concrete help, with boots on the ground. That aid has not been accepted. The people of Frontex have not been given access by the Polish Government to the area where the refugees are, but this aid was indeed offered. I have already made it clear in committee that protecting our external borders is also about infrastructure. This infrastructure must ensure that we can effectively defend our external borders, but also that we can do so in a human way, that we can properly distinguish between who is really entitled to protection and who is not and therefore must be returned to the country of origin. In my view, the discussion on infrastructure is not a black and white debate, and I have also noted that other European governments have expressed their views on it. I believe that we need to take steps forward in order to ensure that the European external borders can be better protected. The situation in Lithuania or Poland is different today than in Greece. Our country has always taken a firm and humane asylum policy as a step in the right direction. We must take firm action against the kind of mechanisms we see today at the external borders, at the border with Poland and Lithuania. It is absolutely unacceptable for people to be instrumentalised in a political struggle. We must make every effort to help Poland and Lithuania. The opinions of our country and of certain Member States differ on other issues, but here we must make it clear that we are united and that we want to help each other. Frontex has offered help. At the moment it has not been accepted, but I assume that if Poland needs that help it will use the European solidarity that our country fully supports.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u23	Prime Minister, you have said a lot, but at the same time you have said nothing. You condemn what is happening there, but you do not put forward any concrete measures to combat it. You do not answer the question of using our Belgian soldiers at the Polish border to help Poland in this urgent crisis situation. Our military are active all over the world, often in conflicts where the Belgians, the Flemings, the Walls, actually have little to gain. However, if it is about the Polish border, about the surveillance of our border too, then suddenly nothing is possible. If we ask you to help Poland build physical border barriers, you are speaking in vague terms about infrastructure, but you are not actually saying anything again. You leave it to a European Union that does nothing either, which does not support Poland sufficiently in building those physical border barriers. Your colleague Kitir may spread hundreds of millions in Africa, but a little support for Poland, which also monitors our border, is apparently not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u24	Prime Minister, I have listened to your reply and thank you for your answers. The cynical geopolitical game of Belarus cannot go unpunished, sanctions are on the table. Sanctions alone will, of course, not suffice for what is happening now, but we cannot and must not accept that people are being used as a geopolitical toy. I think there's a broad majority to actually condemn that. This violates all international and European rules, standards and values. This European Commission wanted to be a geopolitical Commission. Well, now's the time to show it. We need a European response. Our country is taking the lead in this. Frontex has made proposals. In the area of infrastructure, thought is being given to. We must say to Minsk here and no further. A community of values and principles cannot continue to accept this kind of cynical game.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u25	Mr Minister, six out of ten companies in our country today find insufficient staff, which means that they risk losing up to 5% of their turnover, whereas more than 2 million people could work in this country, but unfortunately do not do so today. Imagine what a difference it would make if we could only get a fraction of those 2 million inactive people to work. You're just letting low-hanging fruit rot today. After all, you're not doing anything while our companies are squandering to keep running. In my town, a bakery, for more than 30 years a thriving business, will have to close its doors during the Christmas period, because it finds insufficient staff. Last weekend I spoke to the CEO of a construction company, who had to close the doors last Friday because he had insufficient staff, just when demand peaked. That's unbelievable. How will you finally help them? You just got back from a work visit from Denmark. There you have undoubtedly learned that the level of activity there is considerably higher than here: 79 % compared to a poor 70% in this country. This, of course, has everything to do with their highly active labour market policies. For example, if, after one year of unemployment, a job offered there is refused, then unemployment benefit is no longer available. Where is the policy in our country actually going to fail? If I may believe your colleague Derminne, I think it will never happen in this country. The day before yesterday, he said that calling on the workers on their responsibility would be very damaging to their mental health. Imagine that. That's why I have two questions for you. First of all, were they really much more depressed in Denmark than in this country? Secondly, when will you finally do something to help more people in this country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u26	According to Eurostat data, the vacancy rate in the euro area in the second quarter of 2021 was 2.3 %. In Belgium, this figure was 4.2 %. Lacks in the labour market affect many key sectors such as the construction sector, the hospitality sector or the healthcare sector. Although there are differences, the issue concerns all regions. The coordination of supply and demand on the labour market is primarily the responsibility of the regions. However, the federal government, within its powers, is committed to helping to overcome the deficits. At my initiative, in the fight against bottleneck professions, a plan was drawn up with a large number of measures. In this way, we will establish an inter-federal platform to promote the mobility of workers. We will consult the regions to see how the powers of each region in relation to the succession of job seekers can be improved. Regional policy will be supported. Sectoral training funds will be encouraged and supported. We will also enable the creation of intersectoral funds to encourage retraining and mobility in the labour market. Training plans within companies will be encouraged, with specific attention to bottleneck occupations and older workers. We will also monitor, together with the social partners, the bottleneck professions and their causes at federal level. Finally, jobseekers who take the step towards a bottleneck profession or a job in another region will be rewarded. They can therefore retain part of their benefit during their first three months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u27	Once again, Minister, you do not mention one specific measure, except at the very end, which means that workers will also receive benefits. Actually, that doesn't seem activating to me. The entrepreneurs who are in trouble today remain hungry. With a task force and another plan, we won't get there. Specific measures must be taken. The football dossier will soon be discussed in plenary. It concerns EUR 43 million, not insignificant. However, the OECD has calculated that an effective labour market policy can already bring EUR 80 billion to this country alone. Perhaps the time is right to finally focus on the major reforms, not just by announcing plans or setting up task forces for problems such as labour mobility between the regions for which there is already a consultation platform between the regions. Focus on the major reforms. Whether people are depressed or not, the United Nations has produced a report showing that Denmark, except Finland, is the happiest country. Belgium crawls hopelessly behind. Minister, finally make people happy in this country and give them a job.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u28	Madam Secretary, the auction that was intended to ensure the supply of electricity to this country and which would enable the core exit has been completed. According to your own party, it is a success story, but what do we actually know today about security of supply more than a month ago? I'm afraid this isn't very much. In fact, the two new gas plants that would be built are both under attack today. There is no permit for Vilvoorde and the licence for the plant in Awirs can still be cancelled by the Council of State. Can you guarantee that by 2025, when the nuclear power stations are closed, these plants will supply electricity? I'm afraid not. I wonder how this story goes on. Before you refer to Flanders, I would like to point out that you have not worked out any alternative slopes. There has been no discussion of nuclear life extension. Even if you want to walk that path, you must return to Europe. You also have no European approval for the alternative slopes in the CRM Act. A lot of people are worried about this because time is running out. What will happen? In what way will you do that? Madam Minister, I have a number of very specific questions. Firstly, will you go to Europe to ask for approval of the emergency scenario from the government agreement? Secondly, will you organise an additional, targeted auction to tap into peak power stations and battery capacity? Thirdly, what other initiatives will you take to ensure that the light stays on? In short, what is your plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u29	Those who make policies do so on the basis of facts and with a clear objective, namely energy transition to 100% renewable energy and climate neutrality by 2050. Those things are urgently needed. Have we forgotten the images of the floods in the south of our country? Have we forgotten the forest fires or the heat records of the past few months? The climate doesn't wait. Those who make policies create trust. The capacity for wind energy at sea triples and there will be a clear hydrogen strategy. We need to ensure a strong investment environment for all entrepreneurs who are waiting to invest in renewable energy. We must work together in politics, not against it. Five nuclear reactors are shutting down. If we wanted to extend the life of two nuclear reactors until after 2025, the previous government, with the N-VA, should have started operating. But she didn't. The N-VA is well aware that we need flexible gas power stations. However, despite the positive advice of the local authorities concerned, the Agency for Nature and Forest, the Department of Environment, the Flemish Environmental Society, Elia and the Regional Environment Authorisation Committee, a Flemish Minister decided on his own accord not to authorise a flexible gas plant. Irrational sticking in the wheels is what I call it, at the expense of security of supply. This has nothing to do with sound energy policy, but with opposition to Vivaldi. How will we work together in this country? It is no longer about more gas or more nuclear energy, but about how we do politics. Positive and constructive or destructive? Madam Secretary, our target is 100 percent renewable energy. This farce (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u30	Madam Secretary, can I warm up my house later or will the lamps still be in my living room asking questions that really do not belong in a Western democracy? Nevertheless, these questions are relevant today, because our energy security is at stake. For those who still wonder how the hell that is possible, the answer is very simple. Such a challenge can only be met if everyone assumes their responsibilities, both the federal government and the Regions. I see today, above all, a Flemish region that does not take responsibility. I see a minister sabotaging every approach. Everything's hard. Landing windmills at sea and power is difficult. It's hard to run windmills. Once again, new power stations are being stopped. Colleagues, do you know that we differ? With the fact that there is a debate, I have no problem whatsoever. However, I really do wonder whether this has anything to do with content. I have a newspaper article here from over a year ago. It already said that Mrs Demir stated that she would stop the core exit by not giving those permits. That was a year ago. So it has nothing to do with content. For me, that's the best evidence on the subject. What is punishment is that that minister and the N-VA were part of the previous government. That party was part of a government that reconfirmed the core exit and made possible the mechanism to build power stations. At the time, all that wasn't important. Now what? After all, that question is much more important. Now what? That's what a lot of people are wondering. After all, this is about energy security in our country. This is about the energy price at stake. Madam Secretary, how will you draw the direction of the file to you in order to protect our families in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u31	Madam Minister, it seems to me that you are getting stuck in the CRM file. Yesterday, with the refusal of an environmental permit for the new Electrabel gas plant in Vilvoorde, the competent Flemish minister drew a fairly clear line through your implementation of a security of supply policy for this country. In your opinion, the new plant was a real prize animal. She would eventually play in the Champions League of Sustainability on preventing CO2 emissions and on flexibility. However, Mrs Demir clearly does not share that view. The project was quickly selected in the auction, with 450 million euros in grants over 15 years for that prize animal. You are talking about legal uncertainty for industrial projects in Flanders, but other issues are now becoming uncertain, in particular the planned full core exit. You have always said that you do not want to run the risk of security of supply. The two new gas plants represent 36% of the offers selected in the auction. For Vilvoorde is about 800 megawatts, which isn't nothing. The possibility of appeal to the Council for Authorisations is a tissue for bleeding, because you know very well that the long term duration of the ruling does not prevent this. You will have to switch yourself and have stated that the CRM operating rules offer you different ways out. This morning we heard from experts that there are many possibilities. For example, Electrabel could hire another gas plant. Either way, you're gonna have to switch because you're in the mud. How do you pull out of that swamp? How can you guarantee security of supply without massive imports and without having to sit down with the operator to keep the two youngest nuclear power stations open?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u32	Emmanuel Macron and France decided to build new reactors and enter new nuclear technologies. Meanwhile, we turn our backs on this industry and put gas power plants in place of our nuclear fleet. Nevertheless, as I have told you on several occasions, we must anticipate and work with the Regions before policies are concrete on their territory. You obviously didn't. We will try to rise a little above the level of the Flemish debate as to who is responsible for what: it is the whole of Belgium that is concerned. According to the "gaufrier" effect in our country, we choose to put a power plant in Flanders and a power plant in Wallonia. It happens that in Flanders there will be no or very few gas plants. Our security of supply is therefore in danger because you have reduced the need for new plants to the maximum to avoid criticism. Today, one of them will not be realized. What is your plan to enable us to ensure security of supply as part of the monitoring that you must complete and submit to the government within a few days? How do you see this unexpected in mechanics? There is indeed an unexpected security of supply, and there is also a huge increase in gas prices in the markets and gas plants that you are setting up. How do you see a government agreement that ensures, throughout the country, that assets on either side of the linguistic border, at parity, so that the whole country goes in the right direction within the framework of your clear agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u33	Madam Minister, as a famous gendarme on the RTBF said, but you may not have followed him: "And bardaf is the embard!" By that, he meant that there was suddenly a serious exit from the road. Today you know a serious exit with your CRM and this decision of the Flemish Region not to grant the permit to the Vilvorde gas plant. You kind of threw yourself into the wolf's mouth. My colleague, Mrs Marghem, said it in another way: you decided to open this plant there! If we have not anticipated, if we do not use a method to ensure security of supply in the country, how will we ensure that we have enough electricity with strict environmental clauses? Irrespective of the serious governance messes in this country, we must finally have a calm debate on what is best for the country's energy future, taking into account all the technological advances that enable us, both environmentally and climateally, to get the best out of it. I ask you, too, to get out of these positions that I think are more ideological than climate-environmental about the future of this country. Are we finally going to sit around a table for the country's energy future up to climate and environmental ambitions by also addressing new nuclear technologies? That is a question for you, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u34	A few hours ago, Madam Minister, we learned of the Flemish Minister of the Environment's refusal to grant the permit required for the construction of the Vilvorde power plant, a power plant dedicated to ensuring security of supply after the release of nuclear power. This decision does not really surprise us, but we are extremely concerned. Let us begin by recalling the essential point: the nuclear industry is not an industry that goes without saying. We can no longer impose on future generations, the management of highly radioactive waste, over several hundred years. I will not dwell on the danger posed by nuclear power, the outdated power plants, the shutdown of reactors for several months that we have known under Minister Marghem – Doel 3 and 4, Tihange 2, the micro-cracks, sabotage, the risks of black-out accompanying them, the clearance plan, etc. Nuclear power is therefore not infallible. That is why we continue to support the exit of Belgium from nuclear power. We are in favour of the end of nuclear power in Belgium but under good conditions and conditions: it is vital and necessary that this exit does not pose a danger to the country's electricity supply, and it is vital and necessary that this exit is not financed by the consumer's bill. These are the sine qua non conditions for our commitment. Practically speaking, we are on the eve of the exit from nuclear power, and the decision of the Flemish Minister is, admittedly, a hard blow for the observance of the planned timetable. Minister, in light of this decision, how do you intend to move the CRM forward to its end? In other words, how will you organize the exit of nuclear power? How will you ensure sufficient and financially accessible supplies for our citizens in the years to come?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u35	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech by recalling the facts objectively. In truth, whether we like nuclear or not, five of the seven reactors will shut down anyway by 2025. The decision to leave nuclear power permanently by then was taken more than 18 years ago. I was barely fourteen years old when this Parliament passed the nuclear-exit law, which has since been confirmed by ten different governments, six energy ministers, including you, Mrs Marghem. The procrastination in this country has, in fact, slowed the energy transition. In their political agenda, some spoke of the construction of nine gas-fired power plants. But, Madam Minister, you have managed to do what no other member of the government has ever been able to do in this country: to divide by four, in just one year, the number of gas-fired power plants needed to guarantee security of supply. You also tripled the offshore wind in the North Sea. In short, you do what is good for both nature and bill. Ladies and gentlemen, at some point we must be able to return to the essentials. It is important to roll up the sleeves collectively and focus on the issues that are of real concern to all Belgians, namely the cost of energy that is constantly increasing. We know that renewable energies are the only ones whose cost has been falling considerably for years. It's security of supply. It is also the climate that is at the heart of COP26 discussions. Minister, I want to hear from you on these issues and, in particular, on the question of the energy transition. Pragmatism has really changed sides!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u36	Before giving the floor to the Minister, who will have five minutes to respond to the various speakers, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents, we will hear the last question on the subject to be put by Mr Warmoes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u37	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, during this debate on the key issue, I am struck by a number of taboos which I do not hear speak of. I can name three of them, but there are others. The first taboo is that Electrabel always passes by the cash register, regardless of what decision the government makes. Nuclear exit or no nuclear exit, new gas plants or yet no new gas plants, Electrabel always goes with the subsidies. Today, Electrabel's usury profits are already pouring in thanks to higher electricity prices, but you're not doing anything about that, while the families are paying themselves blue. If you decide that nuclear power stations will remain open longer, Electrabel will receive subsidies. As a result of your decision on the opening of new gas plants, Electrabel, with a few friendly companies, will re-enter for hundreds of millions of grants. Apparently, no party finds it problematic that we are entirely dependent on energy multinational Electrabel for energy policy in our country. That is the reality. The second taboo is that the lights will not go out when the nuclear power stations close. The new gas plants we do not need, says energy regulator CREG. The discussion about nuclear power plants or gas plants is therefore a false discussion. The real question is when will you finally work with the government on a decent, decisive and fast energy transition? It's all going way too slowly now. Every euro you invest in nuclear power or gas plants does not go to energy transition, not to renewable energy. The third taboo is that we have four Energy Ministers in this country, who are constantly sticking sticks in each other's wheels. That kind of fighting federalism makes any decent energy policy in our country completely impossible, because that blocks everything. That has now become clear. Madam Secretary, when will that circus finally stop? When is there really going to be an audience?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen from almost all the political groups, yesterday we and all of you, through the press, heard the reasoning behind the refusal of authorisation, which apparently took place on 29 October. Although strictly speaking it may not have been necessary, there was no prior consultation. I would like to inform the two questioners who have conducted consultations that all the executive decisions of the CRM, including the law itself, have been discussed in the relevant consultative bodies, precisely because of the link to security of supply and because of the shared responsibility in our country with regard to security of supply. The Vilvoorde project is the most modern and flexible gas power plant in Europe and would replace an existing and an older power plant in the same location. All the elements in the file were positive. We have heard this in the press too. Up to two times, all the underlying elements were positive. The competent administrations have also assessed the dossier positively twice across the board. The CRM system is always necessary in all scenarios: with five nuclear power stations, with seven nuclear power stations and even if a new nuclear power station were to be built, we always need that investment mechanism. I am carrying out what the previous government set in motion and what was supported by almost all parties, including the N-VA. So it is no longer about the nuclear exit, it is not about yes or no to gas plants. It is about what you have all referred to in your questions, in particular the security of supply of our country. That's what this is about. After 20 years, it's now five to 12 to secure our supplies. That is why almost all parties in the hemisphere, including the N-VA, Mr Wollants, adopted the CRM resolution 15 months ago, across party boundaries. Almost all parties voted in favour of securing supply via CRM. The minister at the time, Mrs Marghem, explicitly thanked you and me, Mr Wollants! Over the past year, we have worked to put the technical and legal agenda in order. An auction was held in September. I'm on this file like a technocrat. Nothing changes the trajectory that is being made with the federal government. This is not a matter of spectacle politics, nor of backrooms or cafes. We will now carry out a thorough and serious assessment of the situation and then discuss it within the government. There are slopes, there are remedies by the operator, there are operating rules within the CRM and there are also solutions if there are problems with the permits. We're not getting ahead of this today. It's a serious matter, but I have every confidence in it. Some of you thought I had a problem, that I had a problem, that the government had a problem, and referred to a guule de loup, circus. However, apart from the content and technicality, it is ultimately about how we want to do politics. Do we want a policy of cooperation or a policy of opposition? That's not just about energy here today, it's about corona, about climate, about energy. Do we want to offer solutions or do we want to create problems? I have returned to this hemisphere after 10 years of doing something else. I have worked in the sector for ten years and I have seen what is possible, what the solutions are. That is why I have returned to this hemisphere. There is a need for clarity. We need to work on our perseverance. My motto is move forward without drama. That's my attitude today, that's my attitude yesterday, and that's my attitude tomorrow, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u39	Madam Minister, I note that you are not ready today to answer the question of what you will do. I also note that many parties are very angry here, because in Flanders the Minister of the Environment stands up for the environment. How dare she! How dare it resist emissions of 107 tonnes of ammonia! How dare she act against the decisions supported at various levels by Open Vld and CD&V, among others, to ensure that the environment is protected! I would like a thousand times more a minister of the environment to stand up for the environment than a minister of the environment, such as the Walloon Region, who even refuses to deal with the profession, because citizens may not have an interest in the dossier. Our Minister for the Environment draws the map of the environment. The Greens in the Flemish Parliament call for Flanders not to be suffocated, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u40	Madam Minister, your answer tells me that you want to pursue policy as I know you: serious, well-informed, respectful of other people's views. Some of them would better take an example. That would be good for our country and for its citizens. I would like to say this to Mrs Demir. In a school they work together on a project. In a football team they search together for the best strategy. As long as politics remains divided, as long as governments deliberately oppose each other, we lose prosperity and innovation opportunities. We can spare a failed climate policy in one of our regions as a toothache. All governments were done with their homework, but Flanders wasn't. All the Länder in our country want to participate in the European policy for a 55% reduction in CO2 emissions, but Flanders does not. Stop fighting federalism! (Loud noise on the benches)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for working on solutions. The word working together has often fallen here. Mr Wollants says here that in Flanders the Minister stands up for the environment, but already a year ago she announced the sabotage, long before the nitrogen arrests! If she was really concerned about the environment, she would have presented an ambitious climate plan at Flemish level. Now I see a plan without concrete actions and with an account being forwarded to the working class. The worst part of it is that our people and our families really don't benefit. There's enough trouble in our country already. We need solutions and not sabotage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u42	Madam Minister, unfortunately we have not yet been able to hear the solutions. I regret that. We have had Mr Wollants' ammonia number, which I support and endorse. However, there is a problem of credibility. After all, why have the MR, which is also very difficult in the government, and the N-VA in the Michael administration not tabled any amendment to the nuclear exit law in order to build new nuclear power plants? I'm just wondering. Madam Secretary, stop green dogmatism. Accept that nuclear energy is a solution and not a threat to the achievement of the necessary CO2 reduction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u43	Minister, as usual, you did not answer the question on security of supply, neither on CO2 nor on invoices. In general, that's what you do: pirouettes. You are talking about consultation, but in the Conciliation Committee, consultation is not an agreement. You always have to work ahead of its regional partners and for a very long time, otherwise you don't get the result you should hope to achieve, especially in climate affairs. As far as CRM is concerned, we have heard a lot about N-VA and MR, but there was also Open Vld, CD&V, etc. Everyone agreed. Why? Because, in reality, the aim was to market new gas-fired power plants that would allow them to separate themselves from the old gas-fired power plants and not, as you say, to operate the new gas-fired power plants and the old gas-fired power plants all together, every hour of the year to replace the nuclear power plant. This is the notable difference and the reason why, at some point, some parties that are now in the opposition have accepted the CRM. Indeed, if the European taxonomy (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u44	Madam Minister, you've been sweeping us! You had five minutes to answer the question and you did not answer it. We were asking you for solutions and you told us about CRM by saying that we all agreed on it. Yes, we all agreed on CRM, but that's not the question. The question asked was: what are you doing now in relation to this decision of the Flemish government? You didn't answer. You say: "Move forward without drama", but I see that you move forward without answers, without solutions. I'm waiting for the solutions and the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u45	Minister, I think we need to keep our heads cold. The risks that are now objectively linked to this issue require a rational and serious approach based on facts and certainty. We need an approach that goes beyond dogmatism, whatever it is and wherever it comes from, to effectively address the challenges of security of supply and electricity prices. I think that there is now an obligation of result which is incumbent upon us because, on the other hand, there is a form of smokemaking to make it appear that, in order to prolong nuclear power, it would be sufficient to decide this without ever answering questions which are elementary: do we have an industrial partner to do so when Engie has been showing the opposite for months? If so, how much would the extension cost and who would pay the mark? We can talk about nuclear supplies, investments, etc. In short, in this context, I repeat that our fear is real, but our will to protect our citizens is even more so. We need strong and credible guarantees, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u46	Minister, I want to read you the words: "The extension of nuclear power is not a solution. Time passes and current power plants are not eternal. To put the debate on the extension on the table is also to open the debate on the construction of new nuclear power plants in that country, while experiences in Finland or France show that the costs of these new nuclear power plants are much higher than those of gas-fired power plants." Minister, these words are not mine. They are the former Minister of Energy, Marghem, in 2019. I just read them out loud. Mrs Marghem, it's you! You're the queen of pirouettes and these pirouettes don't move us forward! Minister, I ask you to focus on the real work of the energy transition for this country. It is this work that will create jobs here and tomorrow and save the climate. For 2050, a 100% renewable Belgium! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u47	Mr Cogolati, thank you for this lively expression and I give the floor to Mr Warmoes for the last reply on the subject. [[Brouhahaha]] Ladies and gentlemen, would you allow Mr Warmoes to speak? Mr Warmoes, our Parliament is hot today! You'll be able to express yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u48	Minister, I will start with my conclusion: what a circus! I persist and sign: it is a real circus that we have just attended. More seriously, this institutional mess, these state reforms, you voted them all - including the environmental parties. We have four Energy Ministers, four Climate Ministers, nine Health Ministers, one of whom is here. Stop it! Put some order in your shop, or we'll never be able to do it. It's clear and clear! So, yeah, it's a circus. We just saw him. Then you say that all parties voted in favour of the CRM. I must remind you that we did not support the CRM resolution, Madam Minister. I have already pointed out that the CREG believes that we do not need these new plants. You continue to work with old figures and refuse to take into account new ones, as well as global warming, the development of renewables, the efficiency gains we can achieve by pursuing a truly voluntary and public investment policy (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u49	After the previous debate, Minister, we would almost forget, but we are also in the fourth wave of the corona pandemic. Despite the high vaccination rate, especially in Flanders, we had to take additional measures against the spread of the virus. Among other things, we had to expand the use of the CST. We have also extended the duty of masking and teleworking is recommended again. We must continue to restrict our contacts and we are also being asked to keep our distance. All this must ensure that hospitals are not overloaded again. In addition, news came that the Johnson&Johnson vaccine and AstraZeneca vaccine are not doing exactly what we expected. This increases the doubt among some. It undermines the belief in the functioning of the vaccines in some of the population and strengthens the discourse of the non-vaccines. It is very clear, however, that the vaccines are working. Anyone who has been vaccinated is nine times less likely to end up in hospital and 14 times less likely to end up in intensive care. Communication about the functioning of the vaccines therefore remains the core message, so that faith remains sufficient if we recommend people to take a booster shot. It is necessary to communicate about hospitalisations and the importance of monitoring preventive measures. Minister, what action will you take to ensure that we continue to believe in the usefulness of vaccinations, so that we can also get the booster shot? How do you see the organisation of this additional vaccination for the wider population? The validity of the CST will soon expire for the people who first received the vaccine. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u50	Mr. Secretary, the people are concerned. When they look at the news, they hear well-known warnings. For the first time in six months, there are over 2,000 covid patients in our hospitals. There are 450 people in intensive care. Moreover, the flu season might hit harder than in other years. However, it is a very different situation than it was a year ago, thanks to all those people who have been subjected to massive vaccination and have taken responsibility. The government must also assume its responsibility to protect their freedom as much as possible. This is the main challenge for this government, ensuring that freedom can be organized safely and at the same time ensuring that hospitals can continue to be strongholds. We do this with an extension of the Covid Safe Ticket, with mouth masks and with more telework again. Those are not new measures, but measures that we know are working and therefore need to be put back in place. What doesn't help is criticism of the sidelines. It is about parties who make a game of the measures or decide with them at the table, but when there is discussion here in Parliament again questioning their own decisions. That's not helping. While we are wasting time playing a political game around our public health, you are working on a plan to ensure that we get through the winter months. Are you expecting a general directive on the third shot for everyone? We read today that teleworking is not applied very widely in practice and that the Covid Safe Ticket is certainly not checked everywhere. How do we ensure that those measures, which we know to work, are implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u51	Minister, 170 people who are ill because of COVID-19 cannot stay home today. They're too sick and have to go to the hospital. Furthermore, 22 families today hear that their family member does not survive the disease. Next week, we'll have over 500 patients on intensive care. We'll round up a cape we hoped we'd never reach again. The result is that care is postponed again. There are many recognizable things, and yet this wave is different from the first, second and third that we have experienced. Of course, especially in Flanders, we have a very high vaccination rate. However, I like to use a comparison of Domus Medica. Vaccinations are like an umbrella that is perfect for a normal rain shower. However, if there is a lot of virus circulation, there is a very heavy storm and the line of defence of our vaccines is less strong than we thought. Another difference is that our care personnel were carried at hand during the first wave. They were applauded. But now they're exhausted. The nearest hospital in my neighborhood, the ZOL in Genk, announced last month that they should provide the same care with a fifth of staff less. Last week, the hospital in Geel said they're going into the fourth wave with a full nursing ward less. This morning, Margot Cloet said on the radio that we are dealing with a crisis in the crisis. Our care staff is exhausted. Minister, how are we going to explain the gravity of the situation once again? How are we gonna get everyone back? What new measures are needed to relieve the burden on hospitals and the first line? After all, they are no longer able to cope in this way. How do we support our hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u52	Madam President, this morning my colleagues Wouter Beke, Flemish Minister for Health, Alain Maron, my Brussels colleague, Christie Morreale, my Walloon colleague, and the other ministers at the Health Conference together took stock of the situation. We are indeed going over a pain threshold in the healthcare sector, both in the general practitioners and in hospitals. This is a very serious situation. We've established them together. We are absolutely united with the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels colleagues on what needs to be done. This consensus is important. It's no time for politics today. Firstly, we, the Health Ministers, believe that everyone in this country should be given the best possible protection through vaccination. It is for this reason that we repeat that everyone should be vaccinated and that the people who have already received an invitation to a third shot, being the elderly, should respond to that invitation. Moreover, we are making every effort to give the entire population a third shot in 2022. After all, we believe that such a booster vaccine is available to everyone. However, we will organise this third injection on the basis of scientific advice. We have asked the Supreme Health Council and the Task Force Vaccination to advise us before 27 November 2021 on who exactly, in what order, when and according to which organizational method that needle should be inserted. However, the objective is clear, namely to protect everyone in this country from the virus as far as possible. At the same time, we are very united, across party political boundaries and across the borders of our governments. We are very united about the fact that we will have to ask everyone and every sector, both in education and in industry and in the cultural sector, for an additional effort to reduce the circulation of the virus. There's too much virus going on. The equation is indeed good. The vaccine is a very good umbrella, but if it keeps raining and storming, however rare, people under that umbrella will get wet and vaccinees, the elderly and the more vulnerable, will end up in hospital. At the same time, the vaccine remains a very good protection against disease. What disappoints us today, and it is a difficult message, is that this variant of the virus is so contagious. Even for vaccinees, it remains contagious, although significantly less, yet contagious. That's where the danger lies, and we need to do something about it. Everyone has to do their part everywhere. This is not the story of older people against young people or young people against the elderly, of active people against the no longer active, of vaccinees against non-vaccines, of Flemings here, Walen there and Brusselsers there. Today the crisis affects Flanders the most. The increase in hospitalisations is very strong in Flanders, the increase in infections remains very strong in Flanders, more than in the other regions, but we must act everywhere. This does indeed mean re-attaching telework for the simple reason that this reduces the number of contacts. That means wearing the mouth mask, a simple way to protect us. This means ensuring ventilation and using the coronapas not as a unique safety, but as an additional safety. It must be maintained. That agreement was also made with the Minister of the Interior. Other measures should also be combined with the coronapas. People can safely be invited to a concert if the room is well ventilated and the corona pass is requested at the entrance. Let people wear a mouth mask in the concert hall, as happens in Brussels. So it is CST and mouth mask and ventilation and keep away and care and telework. There was a question from Mrs Creemers about what we (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u53	Minister, Mr Depraetere also pointed out that criticism of measures that work does not help. We are not playing with the health of the population, and I am pleased that the government is accepting its responsibility and taking the necessary measures. There is something more important: we do not want another lockdown or additional burden on our health care. I'm sure of it. It is therefore important that we continue to do what we have to do, even if it is a difficult message. The measures that help should not be ridiculed. Trust is necessary. I agree that everyone should be vaccinated, including with a booster vaccine if it proves necessary. It's a story of together, not groups against each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u54	Minister, we have already found that the coronavirus is unpredictable. That's what keeps people going through this period with questions. They wonder whether their vaccine is working properly, whether the flu will not cause a lot of overload and whether regular care will not be delayed. These are very legitimate questions and it is good that you clarify them, because we have always done so in the past year: to keep a clear and responsible line so that people know what is expected of them and what the decisions and measures are. It has always been important for my group that we do everything possible to protect the freedom of those who have taken up their responsibilities as hard as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad that you always seek scientific advice first, and then decide on the basis of advice. I hope the booster shot will do what we expect. Today, however, an additional effort is needed to bring down the virus circulation. We can feel it in the hospitals. I hope that we will also feel solidarity between hospitals in society. I doubt whether the telework recommendation will suffice or whether it will have to be a little more substantial. Finally, I would like to appeal to all the groups. Is now a good time to play political games about measures, such as oral masking in shops? Everyone knows that this obligation is now desperately needed. Should the legality of this be called into question now? I hope that we will be able to debate this seriously and that everyone will be able to look his or her GP in the eye.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u56	Madam Secretary, fewer workers, more bosses, it could be the slogan of bpost. Yesterday, the new CEO announced that he wants to cut a thousand jobs, a thousand workers less in five years, while the workload was never so high. Madam Secretary, you probably remember the tsunami of last year's packages. I didn't forget it. I asked a question about this at the time, and you personally intervened to ensure that the customers would get their packages on time. There weren't too many packages back then, there were too few hands. That was the problem. Today, too, that is still the big problem. There were a lot of actions all over the country, precisely because of the high workload for staff, last week in Ostend. At a time like this, removing more than a thousand jobs is a blow to the face of the many postmen who break their backs. We also hear that there is a great deal of pressure on the shopkeepers. The queues at the counters are getting longer and so are the customers. While jobs are being removed from the workplace, you create new jobs in the management. You have decided to appoint an additional CEO in Belgium. Less work force, more bosses. Is that your strategy to compete with low-cost companies, companies that do not respect social legislation? Is that your vision of public service, which should be bpost? Will you intervene again in the operation of bpost to save a thousand jobs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u57	Mrs Vindevoghel, thank you for your question and for your justified concern. I appreciate your concern about the employment and wage conditions at bpost. I would like to remind you that bpost faces major challenges: the reduction in letter volumes, where there is the greatest margin, and an increase in the number of parcels and e-commerce, where there is much less margin, plus sustainability and greening obligations that we ourselves have imposed in the management contract and also in the HR charter. We have recently had the debate on e-commerce. What does bpost, which is an autonomous public undertaking, decide, and where I do not intervene directly in the operation of the company? First of all, bpost must definitely get his overhead down. These costs amount to 24% of turnover. In view of the benchmark in the sector, it should actually amount to 14% to 16%. Overhead or management costs shall mean costs for central services and facility services. So it's not about the postmen and shopkeepers or the services, it's about intermediate management. You see more bosses and less workmen, but it's actually the opposite. Bpost doesn't let the postmen and the clerks run off at all. It is important to stress that bpost, including in the area of personnel policy, always operates in a socially responsible manner. So there is no question of putting people at the door. However, Bpost wants to discharge people from intermediate management in a natural way in order to reduce the overhead. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u58	Madam Secretary, natural redundancies do not really exist, because they are always jobs that disappear. We're in favour of the survival of jobs. I would have preferred to hear that the thousand jobs do not disappear, because that is a thousand workshops less. I heard yesterday that the situation at PostNL is poignant. Bpost is not intended to compete with companies that do not offer good working and wage conditions to their employees. We think it's important that the jobs are preserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u59	Madam Minister, tomorrow is 11 November, and that is supposed to be the national holiday for women. Unfortunately, I note that it will be more of a national day of mourning for women, as we see current figures of no less than 100 assaults a day. This results in 36,500 women who are victims of sexual violence. Those are not only shocking but even downright disgusting figures. Meanwhile, the perpetrators are becoming more and more creative, in other words, cowardlier, as to how they conquer women. This happens with medicines in glass drinks, but also with injections that make sure that women are no longer able to defend themselves in comatose conditions. We will have to fight this battle together. The social rules whereby women are asked not to walk home alone or not to drink their glass left alone for too long must be put aside urgently. We need a political answer that goes beyond that. A lot has happened in recent years. Among other things, Mr Muylle has provided Care Centres after Sexual Violence, where victims can tell their stories and get support from social workers, psychologists and police at one central point. So they should no longer undergo a mess of administration. There is still a long way to go. Madam Secretary, what further steps will you take? What will be the place of the fight against sexual violence in the National Security Plan? How will we ensure that the victims can be treated properly and this is done as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u60	What we've seen and read in the last few days is touching us all deeply. Everyone should be able to walk around carefree, go out, have fun until the dark hours of the night. Unfortunately, we have to note that this is not always the case, much more often even we would like to see. That is why tackling the problem is now more urgent than ever. It will therefore be an important part of the National Security Plan and the battle that we will be fighting in the coming years. Today, a further important step has been taken with the opening of the Health Centre after Sexual Violence in Antwerp at the initiative of Mrs Muylle. By 2024 we will realize a total of ten such care centres. The necessary resources have been provided for this. It is not really appropriate to talk about success in this area, but it is very good that these care centres are there, also for the reasons you mentioned. Victims can get all the help in one place, both medical, psychological and forensic, and certainly also police assistance. In addition, these centres can also form a link in lowering the dark number. Of course, the victim is at the heart of it, but we must ensure that those who want to report it can do so effectively and do not experience unbridgeable thresholds. In addition to those care centres, it is also important that we provide well-trained policemen. We are already doing this today through basic and continuing training. In total, over 400 sex inspectors have been trained in recent years. Victims are supposed to be able to turn to those specially trained policemen 24 hours a day and 7 days a day. Finally, it requires a chain-based approach. It is not just an effort by the police, but also by prevention services, local authorities, organisations and non-profit organisations. This is a very widespread problem, but together we must do everything we can to (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u61	Madam Secretary. I heard you speak of a multidisciplinary approach, and that is really what this problem needs. It is the century of women and I hope that politics will give a signal, opposition and majority together, to continue to fight to reduce the dark number of 100 assaults per day to zero. We don't have to go for less.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u62	Madam Secretary, you will have already received confirmation in your mailbox that the police officers will take action. From next week until the end of the year, the agents will conduct actions against you and your approach. There are three reasons for this. You cut into the public service of the police, you throw the police pension system directly into the wastebasket and you simply withdraw an agreed wage increase. By cutting even more into the resources of the federal police you not only cause more stress to the policemen, but also less commitment in the neighbourhoods, a greater sense of insecurity, less police close to the people. You want to abolish the NAVAP scheme, which ensures that the police can retire at an appropriate age. Your abolition will take place without a regulation for the heavy-duty professions. Police work is hard work, flexible work, night and weekend work and especially stressful work. I'll give you a piece of paper on the fact that there will be a lot of long-term sick policemen. Mostly, you broke your word. In February there was talk of a wage increase of 30 to 40 euros, which is too little after more than twenty years. After negotiations with the government, you will not return with 30, 40 or 50 euros, but with zero euros. So much for your credibility. Madam Secretary, how will you, with such an approach, with that policy, finally upgrade the profession of police officer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u63	Minister, safety is one of the main concerns of our citizens. All the polls show that. Ensuring security is one of the essential tasks of a State. It is also a matter of respect for both citizens and agents who guarantee this security. This week, the unions meeting together at the union's common front filed a notice of strike with two main concerns: on the one hand, the underfunding of the local police areas and on the other hand, their salary revalorisation. Before I ask my two specific questions, I would like to give you two specific examples to illustrate my point and to show you the current difficulty of police areas. I am part of a police zone with eight other communes. I interviewed fellow mayors – and not only francophones: I interviewed Patrick Dewael at the moment – as well as mayors of police areas close to my region. I am the mayor of the most beautiful commune of Wallonia – Crisnée. What do we see? From Monday to Friday, we have a police patrol to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens from 7 p.m. to 8 a.m. On the weekend, we have two patrols. That's totally inadequate. We have no more because, first of all, we cannot pay them any more. Sometimes, from one municipality to another in the same area, 40 minutes are needed to get from one point to another. Secondly, in twenty years, the communal allocation for the police area of which I am a member has been multiplied by three, while my communal budget in the general sense has been multiplied by two. This shows you very clearly the effort that rural municipalities and others must make to ensure the safety of our citizens. This is no longer enough because we do not have enough staff. This three-fold increase in our budget does not translate into an increased presence of three of our police officers. How do you want to ensure that the status of police officers is recognized and, therefore, re-aligned at the salary level? What additional means will you actually put at the disposal of the police areas to ensure that they (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u64	The police unions have indeed announced actions from Monday 15 November 2021. I have just come from a consultation with the unions, which I have experienced as driven and benevolent. Today's conversation has not yet led to an immediate concrete result, but talking works. That is why I think it is important that the talks continue. It is clear to me that after 20 years our policemen deserve an optimization of their statute. I am convinced that since the start of the talks. We have put forward proposals on this subject, which were not accepted by the trade unions at that time in May 2021. As far as I'm concerned, we need to continue these talks. As far as the federal police are concerned, we would like to provide additional budgets. But as far as the local police are concerned, the principle was always that it was up to the employer, especially the local authorities, to bear the wage costs. So they're in charge of 35,000 of the 48,000 policemen. The discussions I have had with the Association for Cities and Municipalities so far have shown that they may not be able to discuss wage increases until 2024. I do not want to negotiate agreements, which I cannot live up to, or with which we would unilaterally impose an invoice on the local authorities, as has happened in the past. Then perhaps you would question me again, or blame me for making unrealistic promises. Like I said, talking works. I am therefore convinced that in the coming weeks and months we will be able to continue working with the trade unions. In addition, I am prepared to discuss within the government and with local authorities how to improve the status of our police officers, taking into account the budgetary margin available. On this margin, it should be noted that we are doing everything we can to strengthen the attractiveness and status of police officers. During this parliamentary term, we are investing an additional EUR 300 million for the integrated police (the federal police and the local police) plus 79 million for digitalisation and almost 20 million from the European Recovery Plan. In other words, more than 400 million euros will be invested for the police under this legislature. It is therefore not true that this government does not invest in security. This investment represents the largest budget increase since police reform in 2001. During this legislature, we will give priority to the use of these means to recruit 1,600 police officers annually; this applies to local areas. In other words, this government invests heavily in the security of the police and citizens. Mr Colebunders, if we want to upgrade the profession of police officer, as you say you want, it will not happen by false messages or half-truths, as you have said here, namely that we cut services, that the NAVAP regime is lifted or that I have broken words. It would be a pleasure for you to assume the facts rather than make such suggestions. The budget we are going to invest in the police in the coming years goes well beyond the linear savings imposed on all public services, and I will continue to make every effort personally to improve both the organisation and the status of police officers in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u65	Madam Minister, I do not know what you mean by consultation with the trade unions today, but if you arrive there with an empty bag, it is not a negotiation. So I really don't understand what you're doing. You cannot negotiate with the unions, you cannot negotiate with your own government and you cannot negotiate with the local authorities. That is the pure reality. I can congratulate you on one thing. I've been with the union for over 30 years, but you got yourself a scoop here. You are the Prime Minister of the Interior who has succeeded in aligning all police unions with your policies. If there's one common thread in the Vivaldi government, it's that the entire working class is being punished, including the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answers. As you can see, the local police areas need financial assistance. You mentioned that the additional recruitment of officers would also go through the local police areas. I know you're attached to the security of each other. I offer you a simple invitation: one day come to the Police College of the Hesbaye Police Area and you will understand the difficulties we face every day. You will understand our frustrations because of the lack of resources that we suffer every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u67	This concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u68	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u69	Michel De Maegd, Mélissa Hanus, Séverine de Laveleye, Leen Dierick, Christian Leysen, Kris Verduyckt, Barbara Creemers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u70	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1640/4) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1640/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Daniel Senesael, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u71	Madam President, I would like to look for Mr De Maegd, who was the author of the motion for a resolution, but apparently he is not here. From the outset, the Flemish Interest was in favour of the present proposal which aims to stimulate the installation of green roofs on federal buildings and which wants to be progressively realized. There were many written opinions which certainly contributed to the quality of the proposal, because they were taken into account by Mr De Maegd and, secondly, by other members of the majority. Ten amendments were therefore tabled by the majority, which is, of course, reflected in the requested part. The federal government and all federal government institutions, especially through the Government of the Buildings, must make efforts to make their buildings more sustainable. There are funds entered in the budget of the competent State Secretary and also in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan what is that a nice name anyway?The attention is paid to the energetic renovation of the building heritage of the federal government. The potential is, in principle, quite large and the role of the government as a model requires action. As pointed out in its opinion, the current urban planning regulations must be taken into account at all times. We have also understood that there is a kind of internal redirection letter or directional about sustainability in the Regie which is currently being updated. For new projects, it imposes minimum objectives in terms of sustainability, energy performance, materials used, etc. Green roofs are already being realized by the Regie in renovations of existing buildings and we think it is the intention that green roofs will become even normative in the future. Mr De Maegd, with regard to the first request to the government on the establishment of a periodic register and the assessment of the cost, there have certainly been long questions raised by the Government of the Buildings, but also by the Ministers, about its feasibility, although the three-year periodicity in this matter may offer some relief. In any case, in the case of existing buildings, the greening potential of the available areas should be examined as far as possible. Where possible, at least extensive green walls and green roofs shall be installed. The resolution also proposes to identify the technical constraints for all new federal buildings with a view to installing as many green roofs and green walls as possible. However, some ministers suggested that a detailed technical market review should be initiated first, with the Buildings Control having a major coordinating role to play. Mr De Maegd, they also suggested that we should inevitably prioritize afterwards, if necessary through pilot projects. An immediate very broad and large-scale approach seems to us budgetary and because of the many technical questions little realistic. In any case, it is a good thing that the resolution also involves government buildings independently of the Government of the Buildings. I am thinking of the buildings of public enterprises, which are also encouraged, to pay attention to aspects such as biodiversity and greening. Of course, the broader sustainability strategy of the federal government should be taken into account, see the National Energy and Climate Plan. Mr De Maegd, the reality is that it is essential to integrate into the overall renovation of the Buildings Regie. Our group, through Mr Van Lommel in committee, also pointed out that, in addition to greening on facades and roofs in renovation and new construction, the opportunities for renewable energy production, for example photovoltaic solar panels, should be taken into account as far as possible. In any case, we approve the resolution and thank you for your efforts and attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure for me today to see that this text ends up in plenary session after long work. Presented almost two years ago, this text was the subject of discussions, very valuable opinions and effective collective work to finally reach a unanimous vote in committee three weeks ago. That's a good vote. On the eve of COP26 and the day after the resumption of the climate marches, it was important to show once again that our Parliament is aware of these key issues and that it is acting in a concrete and positive way. Of course, such a resolution will not solve the problem on its own. Of course, this text will not be the one that will enable us to fulfil our commitments in this area, but it is a step among others, which will allow us to move in the right direction. Colleagues, in our country and elsewhere, soils are increasingly artificialized, removed from their natural state. In the Walloon Region, for example, it is every year 1,730 hectares that suffer this fate, equivalent to 2,420 football fields. In the face of this situation, action must be taken. One of them aims to reintroduce biodiversity in these areas through vegetation of walls and roofs. As the environmental issue returns to its proper place, this solution is increasingly being used to reintegrate nature into cities. This approach is all the more appropriate because it has many advantages, both in terms of the environment and in terms of the technical and comfort of the inhabitants. These include improving air quality, regulating temperature, effects on water management, improving biodiversity, and effects on overall quality of life. Ladies and gentlemen, Belgium is in fact a good student in vegetating its spaces and in particular its roofs. Brussels is regularly cited as one of the greenest capitals in Europe. In my view, the public sector must take part in this process. Of course, the federal government has a role to play. This is in response to the resolution we adopted here in 2019 on Belgium's priorities at COP25, the previous one. We asked the government to significantly improve the energy efficiency of public buildings. In PNEC 2021-2023, a whole chapter is devoted to public buildings. It contains several provisions calling for greater efficiency in the federal housing stock. This resolution therefore simply goes in the same direction. Of course, as stated in our text, this should not be a substitute for other methods of nature conservation and it will never be necessary to use the excuse of vegetation in order not to preserve a green space where possible. Thus, with this text, when new federal public buildings are built or when others are renovated, the installation of facades or plant roofs will have to be systematically studied and implemented as soon as possible. I would also like to point out, because you alluded to it, ladies and gentlemen, that the same applies to the installation of photovoltaic panels. This is also about energy efficiency. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, every move on the planet counts. It has its place, I think, in a wide range of measures which will enable us to move forward, I hope, in a concrete and positive way towards neutrality. Parliament must be exemplary. It must show that it is attentive to environmental and climate issues. COP26 ends this Friday. It would be an encouraging symbol to see this text adopted today. It is an eco-positive text. It is not intended to be punitive or guilty towards the citizens because it would solve nothing. The paradigm shift in terms of ecology, the battle for a way of life that is more respectful of our environment can only be carried out with the broad support of the population. It is the positive ecology that I defend, with innovative and effective measures, pragmatic and well thought out. This one is one. That is why I hope that this text will receive broad support and, why not, a unanimous vote, as has been the case in the Committee on Energy and Climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the cdH group will obviously vote in favour of this text. However, I cannot help but stress its somewhat derisory side, given the enormous efforts that Belgium must make in the fight against climate change. I just heard Mr. De Maegd said it was a symbol, while COP26 is held. But frankly, we need more than symbols!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u74	Mrs Matz, I said that voting on this text today would be a symbol, I did not say that the text was one. There's a great shade. This text is a step in the right direction in the fight against global warming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u75	This text is indeed a step. But given the stakes, it certainly seems interesting but particularly anachronistic. However, it is quite particular that the greenest government in Belgium's history needs the encouragement of Parliament to act. I hear some of my colleagues welcoming this text, while at the same time the Belgian climate ministers were not able to come to COP26 with an intra-Belgian agreement on the allocation of efforts to reduce CO2 emissions, which gave Belgium a very sad image and thus deprived it of a credible roadmap. So yes, Mr De Maegd, every gesture, even small, counts, but in the face of the lack of proactive, ambitious and coordinated policy, it looks above all like greenwashing. Do the green parties of this government need this kind of text - nice, but not large - to mask their inability to advance the fight against climate change? Or worse, to avoid Belgium continuing to fall down in rankings such as Climate Change Performance Index (CCPI), where Belgium has lost nine places since last year, to find 49th out of 64 countries, behind countries like India, China or Belarus! Let's stop, please, looking at the tree that hides the forest, and let's move on!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u76	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u77	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u78	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u79	Leen Dierick, Leslie Leoni, Robby De Caluwé, Florence Reuter, Albert Vicaire, Stefaan Van Hecke, Jef Van den Bergh, Nahima Lanjri, Nawal Farih, Melissa Depraetere.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u80	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2067/4) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2067/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u81	The rapporteur is Mr Reccino Van Lommel. He shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u82	Madam President, this motion for a resolution concerns the extension of the right to be forgotten. The right to be forgotten now exists for about one and a half years and means that when applying for a balance of debt insurance, no account should be taken of the fact that someone is a former cancer patient or has a certain chronic disease. This proposal by Mr Dierick extends that right to be forgotten to include persons with other chronic diseases. Today in De Morgen we were able to read a beautiful testimony from someone with Crohn's disease, a chronic disease that can be perfectly controlled. However, it is often difficult for these patients to obtain a balance of debt insurance. This motion for a resolution will also make it easier for those people to take on balance-of-payments insurance. So it is certainly a good proposal, which our group fully supports. We will therefore support it in the vote later today. Only for our group it was allowed to go a whole lot further. We would like to extend that right to be forgotten on three different points. Firstly, we would like to have a real right to be forgotten. There is now a right to be forgotten, but former cancer patients or people with chronic disease are still obliged to report this to the insurer. That's very special. One still has to report it, but the insurer cannot take it into account. That is why our group has prepared a legislative proposal for a real right to be forgotten, which deletes the obligation to notify. We are also pleased that the majority has added to the motion for a resolution by means of an amendment that the right to be forgotten for young people up to 21 years old should apply after five years after they have been declared cured and not after ten years. After all, it has been scientifically proven that if cancer occurred before the age of 21, there is much less chance of relapse. It's already terrible to have to endure that disease at such a young age. If the younger person wants to buy a house at a certain stage of his life, this is often impossible because one cannot get debt balance insurance. That way, people will be punished twice. We don't think this is possible. Our specific proposal was incorporated into the resolution by means of an amendment. It is asked to examine whether the right for young people to be forgotten can be granted after five years rather than after ten years. One last element relates to the extension to other insurance. The proposal deals with balance-of-payments insurance, but for us this can go a lot further. The right to be forgotten may also apply to disability insurance or travel cancellation insurance for us. After all, we see that it is very difficult for former cancer patients to take out travel cancellation insurance, because the condition is known. Here too, we are very pleased that the majority has read our proposal well. This was also reflected in the opinions on the proposal that it would be appropriate to extend the right to be forgotten to other insurances such as travel cancellation insurance or disability insurance. We find a great deal of our own proposal, currently pending in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, reflected in this proposal. The right to be forgotten can be extended even further. This is a motion for a resolution, but we have a legislative proposal on the table. For us this is a good but only a first step. We hope to be able to go a lot further with the right to be forgotten, in order to help former cancer patients further develop their future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the author of this text, Mrs Leen Dierick, and the other signatories, because this is a real new step forward for people with chronic diseases. This seems obvious, but it is only since 1 February 2020 that people cured of cancer have this right to be forgotten. If they wish to take out outstanding balance insurance, the insurer cannot, at least if they have been cured for at least 10 years, refuse or rely on a premium on the grounds that they have had cancer. This was already a great first victory. This time, we go further and ask the government to take into account people with chronic illness. Today, a person with a chronic illness has to pay a premium if he or she wishes to take out balance insurance that is still due. Indeed, the list of diseases covered by the right to be forgotten is limited, which creates real discrimination. This is a double penalty for those involved. We could not close our eyes to this unjust situation. That is why we are asking the Federal Centre of Health Care Expertise to develop a proposal to extend the reference grid to other chronic conditions such as multiple sclerosis, to allow those suffering from multiple sclerosis to have access to the remaining balance insurance. We also ask for an analysis to determine whether it could be possible to extend this right to oblivion to other insurance contracts, such as life insurance and travel insurance. We will be extremely attentive to the follow-up to this resolution. A progress report is planned in Parliament within nine months. This resolution represents a further step forward. We hope to gradually succeed in putting an end to the discrimination that affects the majority of these patients. With this in mind, other proposals will be submitted. The motion for a resolution under consideration has received unanimity in committee, and I am sure the same will be true here in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when buying a house, one makes an informed choice and does not talk about a night's ice cream. Several aspects are changed and weighed and the financial picture is often examined several times. In most cases, in addition to a mortgage loan, the bank proposes a debt balance insurance policy. Everyone should be able to have equal access to that balance insurance, but unfortunately we find in practice that this is not the case. CD&V has been working for a long time to improve access to affordable debt balance insurance. I'm gonna go back in time. Thanks to Mr Katrien Partyka, a first important step was taken, because thanks to the Partyka Act, a compensation fund was set up that intervenes with too high premiums. This important first step proved insufficient. After all, there were very poignant stories of people who had had cancer and had been declared cured, but who were still very difficult to get affordable debt balance insurance. An amendment of the law therefore forced itself to do so. In 2019, we made sure that people can no longer be refused from 1 February 2020 and no longer have to pay additional premiums by regulating the right to be forgotten. The entry into force of that scheme was yet another step forward. Unfortunately, we are now finding that chronic sick people often have to make a great deal of effort in order to have a balance of debt insurance or that they are also faced with very high premiums, even though they have not suffered from their chronic illness for years. Today we read in an article in De Morgen that, although Crohn's disease, which was diagnosed by Joop at the age of twelve, has been under control for years, he has been under control at the age of forty in order to be able to take out a debt balance insurance, for which a total of EUR 3,000 more has been counted down. Undoubtedly, there are many more examples of similar situations where chronic sick people who are under control do not have access to debt balance insurance or have to pay a much higher premium. That does not seem to us to be fair or solidarity. That is why we want to go a step further. We want to provide a solution not only for the former cancer patients, but also for chronic patients. We are working today with our motion for a resolution on enlargement, so that the scheme for ex-cancer patients can also apply to persons with chronic illness. In this way, they will also have access to affordable debt balance insurance. They should also have access to guaranteed income insurance if they wish to undertake, without having to pay sky-high premiums. In view of the numerous chronic diseases, unfortunately, we call for experts from the Follow-up Office of the Federal Health Knowledge Centre to make a proposal on the chronic diseases to be included in the reference schedule, on the basis of which the competent ministers will extend the reference schedule as soon as possible. We also want to see an evaluation of the entire law, so that any problems or bottlenecks that we do not yet see can be taken into account and solutions can be worked out. For example, the evaluation can certainly examine whether the overall deadline for ex-cancer patients under the age of 21 cannot be reduced. In this context, Mrs Depraetere has tabled an amendment which we support. Let us tackle all the problems raised by the evaluation at once and change the law if necessary. The right to be forgotten originally focused on debt balance insurance, but the problem of high premiums or refusal of insurance for ex-cancer patients and chronically ill also arises from other insurances such as travel insurance. That is why we ask that the government also investigate, together with the stakeholders, whether the scheme can be extended to other insurances, such as travel insurance. The scheme will be extended to cover income guaranteed by the Assuralia Code of Conduct on 1 January 2022 anyway; we urge that enlargement be legally anchored in consultation with stakeholders. We had a very constructive debate in the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda. All the groups want to extend the legislation. All Members also welcomed the proposal for a resolution, even though some people want to move faster and amend the law immediately. I too am in favour of a faster approach, but first we need an evaluation and we need to be able to rely on scientific advice. Our proposal for a resolution is not intended to slow things down; we also want to speed things up. We are therefore counting on the government to come forward with a proposal within nine months so that we can get to work effectively. Together with the many people affected by a chronic disease, we hope that we will soon be able to see the extension of the regime legally anchored. I would like to thank you all for the very good cooperation and constructive attitude and I hope that I can count on your support once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we too are very pleased with this proposal for a resolution. Anyone who wants to undertake must be able to do so. Entrepreneurship means that one must be able to decide oneself and choose the way in which one is insured against certain risks, such as incapacity for work. Today, for a number of people, the shoe is pinching in that area. Many people collid on a wall when they want to close an insurance guaranteed income. Diabetes patients type 1 are an example of this. Many diabetic patients may be healthier than many other entrepreneurs, who can easily get insurance. The diabetic who wants to secure a guaranteed income gets the message that he cannot be insured, because the insurance says that the patient is considered a burning house. That's literally what my sister got as a message when she wanted to become a self-employed person. For cancer patients, the right to be forgotten has already been rightly introduced and applied. I agree that existing rights should be reviewed and re-evaluated on a scientific basis. Also with many other chronic diseases it is possible to live perfectly healthy. For me, this is an important element, which is also at the root of the text before us. Together with my colleague Kathleen Verhelst, I submitted a bill to legally anchor the right to be forgotten in the insurance of incapacity for work. For Assuralia, as Mr Dierick pointed out earlier, this was the start of a code of conduct which will enter into force shortly. The bill was a first step for Mr Verhelst and myself to extend the right to be forgotten through the reference grid on the basis of advice from the KCE. We therefore believe that our legislative proposal is perfectly implementing the resolution proposal, to which was added the request to extend the right to be forgotten to that insurance. We believe it is important for everyone to be able to take action and to determine the risks they want to take. It is now up to the insurers to decide whether a chronic sick person remains responsible for a large part of the risk of becoming disabled, even if the disability has nothing to do with the chronic disease. A diabetic who is in the process of an insurance accident today cannot even be insured against it. I would therefore like to thank all those who have contributed to this motion for a resolution. I hope that, in the short term, we will be able to take further steps, which indeed I agree with 100% - scientifically justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u86	Madam President, I think there is an important motion for a resolution before us today. Our country is the third most expensive in Europe for insurance in general, so wider than the insurance we are talking about. Today we spend EUR 400 more of our family budget on insurance on an annual basis than the European average. That is quite something, especially considering that in countries like the Netherlands a lot of people take on life insurance and that in other countries there is much less insurance. Overall, we pay quite a lot of insurance in our country. Then we can expect something for that instead. The right to be forgotten is based on solidarity, basic principle of insurance, whereby insured persons take out insurance to share the risks, so that those who need it badly at some point can be helped financially. That is all the more true for a group of people who have been hit hard by a disease and have experienced a lot of misery. On top of that, they cannot be confronted with situations such as those outlined here earlier. Our task today is to eliminate the imbalance between the risk for ex-patients and, among other things, flat-rate profits on the hood of ex-patients. That is why Mr Dierick's initiative is certainly an important step. I have added a number of amendments because I am convinced that the proposal offers an excellent opportunity to examine a number of other issues as well. With my amendments, for example, I would ask the government to examine the situation of those who were confronted with cancer or any other disease before 21, but then for another 10 years if they want to be insured. Research shows, by the way, that the survival rate of an ex-patient who faced cancer before his 21st is not so much less than five years later. The difference between the two turns out to be quite small. It is, of course, difficult for the age group between 21 and 31 who very often goes looking for a home. It hits him very hard. Now is the time to investigate whether there is any possibility of an adjustment here. The same applies to other types of insurance, for example travel insurance. This is typically a problem that people who have had cancer are often confronted with. It is almost impossible for them to take out travel insurance in the period after they were declared cured. These points can be taken into account and examined, with the aim of finally taking some steps forward. This is not a small adjustment for everyone who is confronted with it, but it does make a difference. I therefore thank Mr Dierick for this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u87	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u88	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u89	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u90	Madam President, my report is limited to this morning's committee meeting in which a number of amendments were discussed. There was no written report and I will therefore report orally here. This morning, at its plenary session, following the tabling of a number of amendments by Gabriels and Matz to the draft law to make Justice more human, faster and more criminal, the Chamber sent these amendments to the Committee on Justice. We met immediately afterwards. The amendments concern, inter alia, the postponement of entry into force, the abolition of articles and the replacement of the title of the draft law. During the discussion, colleagues Gabriels, De Wit, Boukili, Rohonyi, D'Haese, Van Hecke, Goffin and I intervened and the Minister replied in detail. Amendments 11 to 16 were adopted, Nos 17 to 19 were rejected. The draft law thus amended and amended was then adopted by a vote of name with ten votes in favour and six abstentions. The committee approved an oral report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u91	A series of amendments were tabled this morning in committee but also in our previous committee on the consideration of this bill for so-called "more humane, faster and firmer" justice. We have tabled three amendments at the level of the CHR. Two amendments concern the status of internees. Indeed, this bill legalizes the fact that, despite Belgium's repeated condemnations, internees are being locked up. A third amendment amends the title of this draft, which at most constitutes a draft containing various provisions in the field of justice. We would like these amendments to be referred to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u92	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request for an opinion. I propose that the group chairmen give their opinion on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u93	We therefore refer the amendments back to the Council of State and postpone discussion of the full text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u94	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Senesael, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u95	Madam President, it is of course a pity that the Minister for the Interior, who is responsible for the FANC and the FANC Act, is not present. It has finally arrived, the adaptation of the FANC law. Last month we discussed the acceptance criteria, which we have already looked at the role of NIRAS and, I suspect, fully approved in plenary. A little history is needed, Madam President. Because why has it taken so long before that amendment to the FANC law was introduced here? As early as the end of 2013, the then Federal Government, following the IRSS mission of the International Atomic Energy Agency, was able to take note of recommendations on a necessary improvement in the definition of competences and responsibilities between NIRAS and the FANC. It was only in the Ministerial Council of 18 November 2016 that the Michel Government decided to set up a task force in order to follow up those advices. In June 2017, the report was delivered to the Minister responsible, I believe Minister Jambon. It included a number of improvements to the regulatory framework in this area. Only a few weeks ago, and now I really have to give Vivaldi a compliment, the improvement proposals on NIRAS were ahead of us. Today we approve the proposals which affect the powers of the FANC. The current ministers therefore bear no responsibility for this delay. I note that the Michael administration has not used that time for the year and a half between June 2017 and December 2018. The reason why is completely unclear to me. Perhaps Mr Wollants can explain that. The FANC shall be empowered to provide a binding opinion to NIRAS on the presentation of the Royal Decree laying down the general rules. The FANC should also examine the new acceptance criteria or changes made by NRAS to existing acceptance criteria and therefore verify that they are in accordance with the general rules. It is only now, therefore, that a sound legal basis is created for the establishment of general rules, for the establishment of acceptance criteria, for nuclear waste and excess radioactive waste. The concrete acceptance criteria laid down by the NRAS in delegation should be aligned with the authorisations, which will then be granted in accordance with the FANC Act. This bill will not come too soon: 5 out of 7 nuclear power plants in this country will certainly be closed in the coming years. The whole question of acceptance criteria is, of course, closely linked to the permits for installations necessary for the management of radioactive waste, in particular those for the treatment and conditioning of waste, intermediate storage and final storage facilities. The waste products must comply with the requirements of the installations. Operators must therefore ensure that waste products meet the acceptance criteria. The waste must be properly sorted and characterised. Madam President, I shall close. Meanwhile, we still have no decision of this government on national policy on high radioactive waste. As long as no choice is made, it will never be possible to say clearly exactly how much it will cost. The final KB proposal for long-term management of category B and C waste provides for a princieps decision to be taken first on the geological disposal. Meanwhile, Belgium has been formally notified by the European Commission for several years. However, we have been informed that the KB is in the process of being designed. It was adapted to the FANC's comments, but it may still not have come to the Council of Ministers. It is high time that the participatory decision-making process on the final disposal was finally launched with a decision to be taken. Nevertheless, we will, of course, approve the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u96	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u97	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2096/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2096/3) The bill has six articles. The draft law has 6 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. Articles 1 to 6 shall be adopted article by article. Articles 1 to 6 shall be adopted by article. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u98	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u99	Servais Verherstraeten, Hervé Rigot, Nathalie Gilson, Claire Hugon, Tim Vandenput, Melissa Depraetere, Stefaan Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u100	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u101	Madam President, I would like to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u102	Madam President, the Minister must be present for such an important dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u103	The Minister will be here shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u104	They're all late today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u105	Madam President, the Minister is on his way. I really have to say to the ministers, because the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health and the Minister for the Interior were present in the committee. Interest in the debate in plenary has declined sharply. Mr Dermine, I do not wish to minimize your powers, but they are somewhat in a different area from what is being discussed here. Madam President, in fact Minister Verlinden was supposed to be present for the discussion of the previous item on the agenda. That is a breach of the agreements made at the Conference of Presidents, where it was decided that ministers should be present when discussing their draft laws. However, she has an excuse. This is not a draft law, it is a legislative proposal. So we don't even need her. I understand that absence, by the way, as does the government's diminished interest. The result of the vote is already clear. That is not only because we know how the committee voted, there is also a second reason. I'll tell you in a minute. Minister, I would like to welcome you to the discussion of the bill. Because of the circumstances, I have to make a comment. Mea culpa, this is my fault. We had to submit our response to the report before 11:00. However, I was late and the report could no longer be amended. I have no problem with that, I just want to give you something, so that it will be included in the report of the discussion. The report states that I, Peter De Roover, regretted that the drafting of Article 83 at the time was done in a rather careless manner. I quoted from the report. Apparently, some poetic freedom has come into play. I had ironically noted that it is a pity that in 2030 the population of Parliament was less sensible than today, because it was not understood that the list of points for which a second reading should be requested was not enough. They seem to have forgotten a number of things in that list, which would now have been corrected. It was supposed to be ironic, but irony in a summary might be hard to grasp. This as an introduction. Ladies and gentlemen, here in corona times relatively numerous, enjoy the moment. After all, this is our democratic moment in pandemic treatment. This is the only time Parliament is allowed to speak and then it ends. I have here a thick pack of papers that I could read all over to fully enjoy this unique moment and stretch it as long as possible. After all, it is the moment when Parliament is involved in the corona policy. However, I can reassure you, I only have this heap of paperwork with me because I have to quote something. I'd rather do that literally. I'll leave the rest unread. I hope that there will be many speeches so that we can extend this parliamentary highlight as long as possible, particularly at a time when, thanks to the pandemic law, democratic legitimacy, Parliament, is being raised to a higher level, as promised at the time. Until now, it seems that it was not necessary to involve Parliament in the decision-making process on the corona measures, as opposed to the Flemish Parliament where they do. Quite a bit of decrepit work has been done there. It wasn't necessary here. By means of ministerial decisions, the government has, as it were, taken power of attorneys. They said that they would do this themselves and that Parliament did not have to interfere. Rejoice, however, because that has now changed. Today we can decide for ourselves that we have nothing to say about the corona policy. I thank the government for the kindness with which it has given us the right to place our heads on the democratic block. We will make use of this opportunity today. Parliament's participation in the Corona policy will then cease. After all, I understand that what we are dealing with today has little substance. There's nothing material in there that we're going to approve today. We cannot even ask for a second reading. That is how far our democratic right in Parliament goes. We can ask for a second reading on every issue raised in Parliament, so that we can think about it very carefully, but that is not necessary here. The note from the Legal Service states that there is no legislative scope for what is happening here today. It's a fact of fact, it's a stamp, like an official, on something that's already been knocked off. It has no legislative scope. I therefore do not understand the government's panic because the 15-day deadline was not expected to be met. If it does not have a legislative scope, then I do not understand why we need to deal with it today. Let us do that next week, next month or not at all, what is happening here has no meaning whatsoever. You may intervene later, colleagues. Above all, use the opportunity offered to us today to exercise our democratic rights. You may intervene later. Use your chance. I quote the Prime Minister from the report: 'All the key indicators and, in particular, the indicators relating to hospitalisations and the ICU tax have been poor. Since then, this negative trend has continued." That is an objective finding, which I have nothing to say against. I continue: "The announcement of the epidemic emergency was therefore unavoidable, not only from an epidemiological point of view but also from a legal point of view. After all, epidemiologically, all the criteria provided for in the pandemic law are fulfilled. The Minister for Health will go into this in detail. From a legal point of view, too, an epidemic can only be managed by means of the so-called pandemic law." This means that we simply have to establish a situation here and that we can only legally invoke the epidemiological emergency. I repeat that this is inevitable. Good colleagues, congratulations. At the time of the adoption of the pandemic law, you, no more or no less, swim into the trap with your eyes open, because when certain numbers rise, the government is legally obliged to do so, which is the devilish logic of the pandemic law, in order to put Parliament out of play. So please do not vote against later, because legally it is inevitable that we will find the epidemic emergency. For the record, it's not about a clear criterion, like measuring fever. From childhood onwards, we were reminded that when the mercury thermometer, which was inserted into our body, indicated less or more than 37 degrees Celsius after five minutes, we had no fever or fever. The fever thermometer of the pandemic law is slightly less finely adjusted. This fever thermometer, which puts us in a legal inevitability, works like this: you have a fever if you are warm or if you could get warmer. How hot? When? Those are open criteria. So today we have a legal obligation, the Prime Minister, to declare the epidemic emergency, because all the key indicators point to this, but these key indicators are vaguely defined. Of course, this cannot be otherwise, because the pandemic law is not written for a specific specific situation, but for all future situations that might occur somewhat. It is now three months from now, and it is then necessary to consider whether the epidemic needs to be extended. This means that, if the flu rates also rise in spring, we may end up in the trap again and Parliament will be demoted as a spectator again. After all, that is, once again, the devilish logic of the pandemic law. In fact, the Prime Minister explained this very clearly in committee the day before yesterday. I do not know whether everyone was aware at the time of the adoption of the pandemic law in which Parliament was driven at that time. With unclear criteria - rising figures, how rising, how high? - it is now stated that we are in a legal inevitability to activate the pandemic law. We have therefore had a debate on this and the words of the Prime Minister, whom I have just read, are crucial. In that sense, this debate was useful, because that debate has once again stressed how absurd the pandemic law is, because it assumes that, in the case of rising figures, Parliament, in any case and in all circumstances, is incapable of taking control of itself. So that is worse than a power of attorney law, because a power of attorney law normally deals with a specific situation, in which our house decides on a case-by-case basis, depending on the circumstances, whether or not it is wise to transfer prerogatives of legislative power to the executive. The pandemic law contains an automatism, regardless of Parliament's freedom of decision. That is the most interesting thing that could be drawn from the words of the Prime Minister during the committee discussion. The criticism that we expressed in the drafting of the pandemic law has, just a few months later, come true. The majority argued that the power of attorney law applies a cadre limitatif. Dear friends, we have asked where the limits of that framework are. What measures can the government not take as soon as you press the green button? What can the government do tomorrow? What's the limit? How much can we expect from the government after we have greened the light? The answer was that it would only take proportionate measures. Allow me to note that I am not reassured by that. After all, who is judging this proportionality? That is the same government, which will judge whether future measures will be proportionate or not. Although the approval of the Royal Decree of 28 October has no legislative scope, that approval does indeed imply the confirmation of the subsequent Royal Decree with a whole series of substantive measures. Imagine that the text, which is why the panic of the government is not going to be approved, will be in total chaos next Saturday. It is strange that a law without normative scope would cause complete chaos in the country. However, we will not only judge with knowledge of the KB, which has already been made; we will also open the way for possible future KBs in the next three months. If we could say today that the measures of the current KB are not bad and that we support and approve them, there is the catch we are giving carte blanche at the same time for the next three months for measures that we do not know today. For example, if you consider that proportional, you will be able to enter a night clock. You'll be able to close down sectors. If you consider this to be proportionate, you will be able to introduce a cooperation ban, with the result that there may be a ban on demonstrations. You will be able to decide how many people you can receive at home, possibly how to use the sanitary facilities. That's what we don't know today. That's what you're asking for a blank cheque for. You will judge whether the measure is proportionate in the circumstances that arise. Luckily, there are courts left. That reassures us. I admit that. You have not abolished the courts with the pandemic force law. So you can go a step further in the future. We'll see what you have left in the trunk. I do not dare to judge epidemiological measures, but Mr De Gucht - and I am not talking about the former Minister of Public Health - recently announced in the media that the mask in the shop is a purely symbolic measure. Who am I to contradict him? But I can tell you that that statement came through a lot of stores like a head-butt. Well, if we did not approve the kind of legislation that is on the table today, you would come to Parliament for such measures. You would submit a draft law and we could discuss it openly. The concrete debate in the public space on concrete measures, which had already been silenced, and now we can shut ourselves up again. So let us name what is on the table here. The name pandemic law gives the impression that we are using an instrument here to control the coronavirus. What's in a word? This is actually about a power of attorney law, ladies and gentlemen. The improbable indifference in giving power of attorneys today has never been demonstrated in the past. Powers are granted in a very exceptional situation. I remember student demonstrations taking place against the granting of powers of attorney. Powers are granted as an exceptional measure in very exceptional circumstances. Here, under the false name of pandemic law, we are divided into the stomach with a power of attorney. It's not a power of attorney law, some colleagues said. There is, after all, a difference with other laws of power of attorney, and this is what they read in the fine print, so to speak. Colleagues, if it waddles like a duck, if it quacks like a duck, if it lays eggs like a duck, then it is a duck. Even though the colour of the feathers may be different from that of other ducks, it is a duck. What is before us for approval is a power of attorney law; that is the essence. In this respect, I think it is particularly strong that a proxy decision is apparently judged to be something without any legislative scope, understood who can. Prime Minister De Croo has to say yes in the vote, because we are in a legal need. The rebels who will vote against will not understand that they are in a trap. They want to give the impression here that they have parliamentary autonomy, but they are erring. I can tell you that our group will collectively and consciously go astray in the vote. They have gone astray, for in fact they no longer have that right, since they forfeited it at the time of the adoption of the pandemic law. At the time of that approval, the hatch was opened. When the number of infections increases or could increase, the fences close and one can no longer swim away from the trap. By having this parliamentary debate on counterfeiting for too long, we are actually punishing ourselves. Let me just say a few words in conclusion. The intellectual indecency shown during the discussion at the committee meeting by giving the impression that we are in favour of a choice between public health or democracy, as this is unlikely and false dilemma has been put forward, is an incredibly lacking parliamentary reflex. If Members of the majority have given the impression that we as a Parliament are unable to conduct a corona policy and to be an ally in it as a Parliament, but that we must silence ourselves for it and give our prerogatives to the government, then that is a serious lack of parliamentary self-respect. After all, we have made a constructive proposal, but it has not been discussed. Our proposal was simply to change the date and title of the Royal Decree and to make it a legislative proposal. A draft law may also be possible, but in that case there is a threat of scrutiny by the Council of State, and the majority is afraid of that. We have shown our willingness to deal with this bill this week, in order to avoid the chaos we do not want from Saturday. After all, you will have an open parliamentary debate where everyone has to say yes or no, where everyone has to argue why or why not, and where everyone can possibly table amendments. We have proposed this as a decent democratic alternative, but it was not considered by the government parties because they say: it is nice in that trap, we are in it, let us not try to swim out anymore. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we know that the government is afraid of the parliamentary debate. This has been demonstrated here for months at regular intervals. Not every minister in this government has a highly developed parliamentary reflex, to put it that way. That's nothing new. The government is fleeing Parliament for obvious reasons, because when we finally had a serious parliamentary debate, as in the case of the State of the Union, you were constantly embarrassed. Of course, you do not have that problem with press releases. A parliamentary debate scares you. You are trying to avoid such a debate in a crucial matter such as the fight against a corona virus by pushing Parliament into a trap. That's nothing new. It does not even deserve to be mentioned, because it is simply a common thread through the policy of the Croo government. It was amusing, by the way, that there are indeed amusing moments in a parliamentary life to see in committee how a liberal prime minister was taught about open debate and democracy by a representative of a communist group. There will be few countries where this can be done in a credible way. The Prime Minister was there and had to admit that he was overlooked in terms of liberal values by our dear colleague, Mr Boukili. He did it with a lot of conviction and the Prime Minister stood by, looked at it and bowed his head. I think there are few countries where you can attend such amusing scenes, at least amusing to the spectators, not very amusing to the Prime Minister in question. But, ladies and gentlemen, if the government is afraid of this House, when the government is going to run for the open free debate, if even in corona time the government prefers to take decisions that we do not have a say in, then that is the central thread of the government. However, if you, as a Member of Parliament, are afraid to press the green button, and you yourself say that you are afraid of an open democratic parliamentary debate, then you are a terrible expression of fear for yourself and your own parliamentary capacities. That is, of course, of a different order. That's over with the shame. I suspect that you will overcome this embarrassment and that we will find the trap we are already in, the legal inevitability, as the Prime Minister expects of you. We won't do that. We do not see any reason. That's why we'll press the red button. After all, anyone who pushes the green button does not agree. We do not see any reason to put Parliament out of play in the fight against the corona epidemic and to give it a licence of incompetence. Anyone who agrees can only press the red button. Whoever agrees to what is here gives a manifest license of incompetence to himself. You should think about that very carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u106	I confess that with the speech I just heard, Mr De Roover, I wondered what text we were talking about. You talked about measures, Parliament's power and Parliament's control. I actually found a text that speaks of all this and I have it in front of me. He spoke of the possibility of implementing a royal decree, of monitoring and confirmation by Parliament fifteen days later, of measures that could be taken, of the control that could be carried out, of the government reporting to the House of Representatives each month (Article 9), of the government submitting an assessment report to the House within three months of the end of the pandemic (Article 10), etc. I found all this, but it's not the text we're talking about today. This is the text that was voted on 15 July. It allows the government to activate the pandemic law. I agree that we talk about it indefinitely. There was a long debate on the subject in committee and plenary. But in the future, instead of resuming royal decrees, reactivating confirmation by Parliament and resuming the same debates each time, I believe that Parliament must act on other issues and work on other issues, rather than resuming debates that are over. This law was finally passed on 15 July. I will not dwell more on the reason for our presence here today, except on section 3 of the same law. Paragraph 2 states that it is up to Parliament within 15 days of the adoption of the Royal Decree to confirm the Royal Decree. This is the power we, as parliamentarians, have to confirm whether or not the royal decree adopted on the basis of evidence which shows that it is now necessary, in the interests of public health, of the hospital environment under constant pressure, of our fellow citizens and in order to avoid measures far more difficult than no one wants to live such as confinement, to confirm this royal decree. This is the action we will take in a few moments. In substance, I hope that we all agree that the figures highlighted by Sciensano and the experts are alarming. There are approximately 7,000 cases per day of positivity, nearly 200 hospitalizations per day and 20 deaths per day. It seems commonplace, but for me, these deaths are not commonplace. This requires awareness and action at the federal level. The Covid special commission had not said anything else. She said we need a pilot. The federal government must take the lead when necessary. In a country as small as ours, we cannot have different ways of dealing with the same problematic situation that has no linguistic or community boundaries. This situation is now national. It therefore requires national measures. That is why we are in this Parliament: to take the necessary measures for all the citizens of the country. That is what we intend to do: to protect our citizens and to play our part in taking responsibility. Today's a big deal. I know you don't share that view. I understand that. It's your choice. You're talking about the intellectual indecency of the majority. I want to talk about indecency in committee: indecency and fliber. I'm sorry about that. But when we use absolutely all the texts with the aim of delaying the adoption of a law that will allow the maintenance of essential measures, it is fliberous. When it is not recognized that we have high-level legal services above the fray and that we carry out competent work of expertise within a short time to advise all parliamentarians, the majority and opposition, on the left or on the right or elsewhere, it is flibus. When a second reading of the law that you are asked to vote is requested, which ultimately concerns only one article – on the substance may be more, but on the form, it is only an article – it is also libust. Mr De Roover and other members of the opposition, it seems to me that you all have enough intelligence to read section 2 of the law before you today. This Article 2 simply confirms the Royal Decree. I do not think you need a second reading on the substance to achieve this. I'm sorry, but I don't think so! Therefore, if we are all in agreement today – you spoke of the fear of the majority in committee – the majority is not afraid to assume its role: that of adopting an unpopular measure that will not please everyone and that will not bring together all of our voters. This isn't our job today. Our job is to make the right decision to protect those for whom we work daily, whether they vote for us or not. That's what we're going to do in a few moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if we can believe the government, we are currently in an epidemic that is so serious that the state of emergency is declared and Parliament is excluded by the pandemic law. However, this state of emergency is not very noticeable. The so-called experts who preach the end of time because the number of positive test results is increasing, sit on television and dance at a feast in honour of the Moroccan holiday. Do you know what the organization of these experts, Sciensano, is doing while the state of emergency is declared here? He's on leave. He's making the bridge. Sciensano takes five days vacation around All Saints. That's a very severe state of emergency, I guess. The politicians who announce the state of emergency here are actually doing it even more severely. Instead of playing theater and pretending to really mean it with that state of emergency, party presidents and ministers go in the VIP lounge to the basket and watch football, all among themselves. Party parties for the celebration of 175 years of scam or for the coronation of King Connah can just take place, all nice and cozy among each other, no mouth mask to detect. But if there's an interview to be given for television, then, hocus pocus, the mouth mask is there again. In Parliament, moreover, it is exactly the same. We're all sitting here at a distance, nice and far from each other, like kindergarten kids on a couch with the right sticker, otherwise Miss Eliane or Master Frank will come to punish us. All of them, of course, also require the mouth mask, because if one does not wear it, Miss Eliane will send the military police to remove you from the room. Those same politicians who come here in the hemisphere play with their distance and keep their mouth masks, sit here one room further, in the coffee room, all sitting next to each other at the same tables. There's no mouth mask. In this Chamber, therefore, there is an emergency situation and the opposition and Parliament must be put out of play, because the epidemic is so serious that there is no longer time for parliamentary control. Ten meters away, however, in the coffee room, that emergency has suddenly disappeared. Poof, get out of here. That's a pretty serious emergency, isn't it? Colleagues, just admit it. There is indeed a virus and public health is effectively under pressure. Is there, however, an epidemic that is so serious that Parliament must be put out of play and the government must be given full power through powers of attorney? No, there isn't. Don't get me wrong, there is a need. There are a lot of needs in this country, especially in the area of public health. In the healthcare sector, for example, there are very large needs, namely more staff, more beds and better remuneration. These are all needs which the current government, which pretends to be concerned with the care sector, has hardly done anything. There are also major public health needs. Obesity and an unhealthy lifestyle appear to be the biggest comorbidities for the coronavirus. However, the current government, which pretends to be concerned with public health, has also done nothing about this need for more exercise and healthier nutrition and mass sensitisation. Colleagues, this is what it turns out to be. The road to freedom is the way to dictatorship. We've been set up, we've been deceived. The Flemings have been vaccinated massively. Almost 95% of adults have been injected. Instead of freedom, however, the Flemings got a pass company with a QR identification obligation, in which citizens have to control each other and rat each other out to the government. We've been set up. Every year there is pressure on the care, especially with the rise of the flu. Those who can google a little find hundreds of articles from the past decades in which apocalyptic is done and talked about beds in the hallway and delayed operations, counting on the annual return of the flu. Every year there is the same recurring pressure. In 2021, however, this pressure is suddenly an excuse for declaring a state of emergency and excluding Parliament. The current government, which represents only a minority of the Flemings, is in itself a mockery of democracy. However, by applying the pandemic law and giving power to the government to bully the Flame with mouth masks for our children at school and with a QR identification requirement for any social contact, the attack on our democracy is total. Just as the Flemish interest opposes the senseless but dangerous pass society, my group will also expressly oppose the political abuse of the entire corona crisis. We are opposed to a power of attorney and to putting this Parliament out of business. Anyone in this hemisphere today voting for the announcement of an epidemic emergency and thus giving the government powers to further restrict our freedoms and rights, without parliamentary control, bears a heavy responsibility. After all, the citizens at home see this abuse and will not forget that you are here today granting their freedom and their rights to an undemocratic power of attorney government. My group will vote against it, because we, as representatives of the people, have a duty to represent our constituents, our people, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 29 October 2021, the government declared the epidemic emergency, in accordance with the pandemic law. A risk assessment carried out by the Risk Assessment Group and the opinion of the COVID-19 Commissioner showed that the cumulative criteria provided for in the pandemic law were met and that the management of the situation required a federal approach. That was also clearly stated in the various committee meetings. On 26 October the Consultative Committee reached the same conclusion. Indeed, all the key indicators, in particular the indicators relating to hospitalisations and the O.R. tax, showed an unfavourable trend. Everyone has to see that, because the negative trend has continued since then. The number of covid patients on intensive care is now rising by 3 to 4 % per day and the media reported today that the cape of 500 covid patients on intensive care may be rounded up next week. The Consultative Committee therefore rightly took some necessary measures to prevent the further spread of the virus, to protect our people, but also to protect the staff in the care. I haven't heard much about that from the opposition. The staff in the care camped with a fourth wave and burn-outs. A lot of people are pulling off because of the high workload and the heavy type of patients. In our view, this makes the situation more difficult than in the first and second wave.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u109	Mr Demon, you are addressing the issue of care. That is a legitimate concern, but can you explain to me how only one problem in healthcare is solved by the introduction of powers of attorney?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u110	You have to be clear. The numbers are rising and unit of command is needed. Today hospital A says one thing and hospital B something else. The announcement of the epidemic emergency is necessary. Today we do so legally and we confirm the decision of the Consultative Committee, where the Flemish Prime Minister, who belongs to the N-VA, agreed to that decision. The sanitary measures will then be ratified by law at the federal level and at Flemish level you said something else today, many such measures have been adopted, but without a decree. The draft law does not in any way confer any special powers on the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u111	Let us ratify these measures by law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u112	Take the example of education.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u113	No, every time you get a difficult question, you start talking about the Flemish Government, which your party itself is involved in. Not only will you find yourself incompetent when you press the green button, but you will also consider your Flemish colleagues of CD&V incompetent. You said just now that the measures of the Royal Decree will be ratified. Is that right? Is that what you're saying? That is not what we are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u114	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u115	Now I understand why you're voting in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u116	I'm going to take the example of education. You agree with me when I say that a group of experts is in an effective position with the Minister and takes measures without being endorsed by the Flemish Parliament and the Flemish Government. You cannot blame us for taking the lead for federal measures. Moreover, the proclamation will no longer be effective if it is no longer ratified by Parliament. Parliamentary supervision does not stop there, because it was also promised that a monthly report would be made to Parliament. For us, therefore, Parliament is by no means excluded from what I have heard here. Madam President, the decisions taken by the Consultative Committee are proportionate to us and are applied with caution. Our group will therefore fully support the legislative consolidation of the emergency situation, as described in the pandemic law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with a small reminder. At the time of the discussions on the Pandemic Law, we warned MEPs about the anti-democratic aspect of this law because it imposes measures that go very far without consultation with Parliament and without consultation with civil society and actors on the ground. At the time, we were told that this would be settled by royal decree to be confirmed by Parliament and that the democratic debate would come at that time. The debate is here today and we are going to debate about an A4 sheet – not even filled in! – which will allow the government to have a blank cheque to take measures that will affect the private life and the most precious rights of the population. Through this Act of Activation of the Pandemic Law, the government is given special powers. In fact, as of today, Parliament has nothing more to say. The government can decide to put in place a curfew without Parliament having anything to say. The government can ban demonstrations without Parliament or civil society having anything to say. When I said that to the Prime Minister in committee, he told me that curfews were not going to be introduced and that demonstrations were not going to be banned. What happened a few months ago? Has not a curfew been introduced? Were not demonstrations banned? Didn't any shops have to close? Meanwhile, public transport was crowded. Where is consistency in these measures? And today, we're being asked to sign a blank check. With this text, we exclude both Parliament and civil society, whereas normally it is in times of crisis that we need more brains to think, to have the best reactions. But no, we're thinking there's no smarter than Codeco. All the rest of society is useless. No useful proposal can come from anywhere else. Codeco has all the solutions. Great! That's what we've seen in the last two years, great solutions! We'll meet in front of a fourth wave. The government may have the benefit of the doubt, but on the ground, that's not how people live it. For the past two years, this health policy has excluded democratic debate with measures that are not discussed, justified or argued but that are binding on the entire population. This has broken the trust between the population and the political world. This has widened the gap between politics and the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u118	Mr Boukili, I hear your message, which is very interesting about theory. I have heard it for a long time: consultation of the field, of the social actors. What I'd like to hear is who's putting around the table. Who are the ones who can provide useful answers and that we do not put around the table today? Who needs to be consulted to get the right answers? In view of the international situation, therefore, Belgium is the only country to have made the wrong decisions and the wrong arrangements. If I can hear you correctly, then we are the only country that still needs to adapt our measures in the light of a constant evolution of the situation and, in order to get out of it, the solution would be the consultation of civil society. Is that it? Or do I sum up a little too short? Finally, you summarize Codeco's decision-making to policies that do not surround each other. It's still a little bit of a denial of the competence of these people. I know that you are often used to making shortcuts, but, for example, as far as Commissioner Covid is concerned, everyone welcomed his appointment and designation by saying that he brought a plus: the RAG, the RMG, the experts who all underline that it is not necessary today to resume containment measures but that we need to tighten the screw and take more appropriate measures. So you deny the skills of all those people who surround today's political decision-makers, if I hear you correctly. I would be very happy to have your opinion on the people to be put around the table because, like you, this is our common point, I would like to get out of this covid crisis and have the right answers. It is, however, more difficult to make the right decisions than to tell others that it is all that needs to be done. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u119	Mr Rigot, thank you for the very interesting question. Let me start with the second part of your question. Of course, Belgium is not alone, but Belgium acts in the same way as many other countries. In this sense, we have a power that decides alone by excluding consultation. You asked for an example of consultation. I am going to take a measure that appears in the Pandemia Act such as the requisition of staff or a second measure in the same context as the amendment of the labour regulations. For example, the CSE (Covid Safe Ticket) could be imposed for workers in companies. In the Pandemia law, it is by royal decree that it is decided. It is the government that makes this decision. How else could we do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u120	You're talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u121	Mr Vandenbroucke, I answer the question first and then you can question me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u122	Mr Boukili, it is not because you answer someone that I cannot intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u123	Minister, go ahead! I'll give my full answer later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u124	Without commenting on your entire speech, the example shows how light your argument is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u125	What example?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u126	The example of the health pass in the context of a company. We need to legislate and have a debate on this. In the agreement on legislative cooperation, we had the discussions here. I think you intervened.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u127	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u128	It was therefore a debate here in Parliament and elsewhere in all the Parliaments concerned. So we're not going to decide on such matters by royal decree. It is in the legislation that you voted here that this is not right. If we want to change politics, we need to change legislation. Stop telling anything!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u129	This legislation has been discussed and passed, in particular with a view to adapting its application to the pandemic law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u130	We can continue this way for a long time! You're hard to understand! All I am saying is that since we have passed legislation, it is an act of Parliament! It excludes the use of the CST in the context of work. Changing this requires the change of a law discussed and voted here. The Pandemia Act does not allow this to be changed by royal decree. That's all I'm saying! Make an effort! A little logic and consistency could help the debate that could be interesting if you stayed in coherence and understanding the arguments! But you're "hard of understanding," we know it! The people who are suffering today, the general practitioners, the hospitals, if they listen to you, they must revolt!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u131	I'm not the one who revolts them, it's you! They turned their backs on you!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u132	You're wasting your time with totally wrong arguments when you have to act!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u133	Before using doctors and the hospital community to criticize my speech, it would be good to question you! I take an example, Mr. Minister, of the requisitioning of personnel. Is it provided for in the Pandemia Act or not? Yes or no? Is the change in working conditions in the Pandemic Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u134	I don't have to answer. You gave the example of the use of the CST in the workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u135	Answer me! It's to be consistent!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u136	I'm saying it's a stupid example!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u137	Minister, you asked me to be consistent. I'll try to be.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u138	Was your example correct? Have you debated the law here? Yes, you were there. So you know perfectly well that your example is totally incorrect. You are mixing a whole series of arguments, which is so embarrassing to be able to conduct a real parliamentary debate! Please try to have a substantive, ideological debate! Let us conduct this debate, but not on the basis of totally erroneous and inconsistent arguments. But that's your type. We know that!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u139	Mr. Van Langenhove also wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u140	I just want to ask the minister a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u141	We'll calm down. Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of Van Langenhove.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u142	Mr Minister, perhaps you could just answer the very interesting and simple question put by my colleague, instead of rushing you like this, which is not the first time you have hunted yourself down in committee. It would be very interesting to have a debate on the basis of the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u143	I have already responded to Mr Dries Bolsonaro. Once again you have played the Bolsonaro in the most remarkable way: it is just a flu. I am not going to repeat what I said in committee, because you have lost time: 'The Flemings are the victims'. Mr. Dries Bolsonaro, you know what? Today the infections are rising fastest in Flanders. The hospitalizations are rising fastest in Flanders. Almost 60% of people are admitted to hospitals in Flanders today. Stop that discourse. I'm not going back to that. Then I'll answer the question. Yeah, we set up a curfew with a ministerial decision. Courts have discussed this. In the end, it was not said by the judiciary that this was wrong. We now decide with Parliament that we will not do this with a ministerial decision anymore, but with a royal decision. This creates a parliamentary basis that is stronger. That's what's in store here. I have no problem with this example, but I repeat, you are giving a silly example here, which is stupid because it goes against the work we have done here, but you do not even remember that. I have a right to say that this is a stupid example. I am therefore not obliged to reply to all possible other examples here, but I would like to answer them. Of course, we can do a lot with royal decisions. What I would like to ask is that we have a serious debate here. I am not going to respond to Bolsonaro here behind me, but I am asking for a serious debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u144	It is not for me to defend colleagues, nor those of the PVDA, nor of the Flemish Interest, but I must say that your debate technique is a bit transparent. The colleague gives an example. You say it's a stupid example. Okay, but besides that stupid example, there are unfortunately countless correct examples. For example, about the night clock. That is actually the most relevant of what you have said: the great progress is that it is no longer declared by ministerial decision, but now by royal decision. This is the essence of the debate. To sum up, Mr Vandenbroucke's answer to a question which is far more fundamental than a mistake made by a colleague who has indeed set a stupid example. But unfortunately, that stupid example is the exception. The question that was asked after that, about the night clock, that's reality. You can now introduce them together with your ministerial colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u145	I'm not going back for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u146	I know you're not going backwards for that. Then let's say these are powers of attorney. It quacks like a duck, it waddles like a duck, it lays eggs like a duck, but it has different colors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u147	Minister, you are calling for a serious debate, but it was you who started to shout both in committee and here, even when you did not have the floor. It was you who, even when your micro isn't on, tried to overvote the others with scribbles, with things that don't matter at all, and even with lies. I have made an extensive speech, twice in committee and again in plenary today, and the only point of criticism you could give, in addition to the screaming and the nicknames, was a lie. It was a quote from something I never said. You can check that in the report, even with the images. Minister, I did not say that. If that is your only point of criticism, I think my speech was a good one. Now perhaps you can just answer the pertinent questions of colleagues in Parliament. While you're at it. While we, as representatives of the people, are still allowed to do our duty. Perhaps you should make one last effort today to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u148	Madam President, I am very sorry to have aroused so much enthusiasm in the opposition. If we could get back to the debate, I would like Mr Boukili to answer my question. In fact, we are talking about dishonesty, intellectual dishonesty, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u149	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u150	Let me recall the reason why I would like you to answer my question. Like me, you had the opportunity to speak in committee. I also have the right to do so here. I'm asking you for answers because I hear you say "there's only one". You're talking about deprivation of liberty. We know that the measures have affected each and every one of us, since the beginning of the pandemic, whether in Belgium or elsewhere. Stop saying, as you do on your Facebook account, that privacy is limited, that workers are deprived of their freedom, etc. That is not the purpose of the text. This is on your Facebook account. I can quote you in extenso, if you wish: "For the workers, this is nothing of a formality. They will have to undergo in real life the restrictions to come: curfew, requisition, limitation of private contacts, CST at work." That's incorrect! We just told you! You are deceiving the citizens, your potential voters, by selling them that the government and Parliament have only one ambition: to deprive them of their liberty. Our ambition is to take the necessary steps to save lives and also to save the caregivers who are at the end of the roll and who can't do it anymore. Stop your easy and populist speeches, let us take action, and tell us what you would do if you were in our place, what you have always refused to do until now! I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u151	Madam President, I would like to add to the remarks made by Mr Vandenbroucke. There is indeed a list of potential measures that could be taken. But you caricature things. Indeed, at the beginning of your speech, you said that the pandemic law imposes measures, which is not true. The Pandemic Law clearly states that measures must be necessary, adequate and proportionate. It's not nothing! These are principles in force for decision-making by administrations and governments. As far as I am concerned, I believe intimately in our legal and judicial system. If measures were to be taken when they were not necessary, adequate or proportionate, they would be challenged by judges. Therefore, this law should not be presented as a blank cheque. You really make a mistake by presenting it this way and making such a speech. Moreover, if measures are needed to manage the covid crisis, they are based on expert advice. As Mr. Rigot said, we can't do anything. You can't shut down activities and businesses. Requisitions cannot be made without a judgement on necessity, proportionality and adequacy being rendered. So what you're saying is not correct. I may be wrong, but I have not heard any argument to date as to whether or not we meet the conditions of Article 2, § 3. Mr De Roover, you did not say anything about that. You have not disputed that Article 2 third of the pandemic law has been complied with. That is the subject of the debate that we must have here. You really are making it a caricature. That's worrying. I thought we would finally have a debate on the question now before us, namely whether we comply with Article 2 third of the pandemic law. You argue that a law that has been passed should not be applied and should go against the opinion of the Council of State, which is very clear on this matter. Parliament gave its opinion on the law on 15 July and agreed to it. Today we apply the law. It is a punishment that you, on the one hand, argue for respect for Parliament, but, on the other hand, you do not respect Parliament's decision. That decision was made democratically on 15 July. In addition, you are also taking part in an opinion from the Court's legal services. We have to do it. [[.]] They have ruled in full independence on a question that is put to them. You're saying they're a little bit involved with the majority. That's punishment. For someone who advocates respect for Parliament, the punishment is that you question things in this way. This question, which needs to be answered today and which should be the subject of the debate, is not raised here. Mr Boukili did not talk about this either. We're working on it like before. The Council of State and so many courts have confirmed that the ministerial decision can serve as a legal basis. You have argued, among other things, for a specific law. We have created this specific law in which we have created greater commitment and greater transparency. You can't deny that. The Central Bank has been submitted to Parliament in advance, as has the opinions. We are discussing today whether or not the conditions for announcing the epidemic are fulfilled. Today we are going further in Parliament's involvement than before. I do not know exactly who you were referring to when you said that Parliament is not very involved or that some people do not have much respect for Parliament. In this process, we can now testify together that Parliament has been incredibly involved. Before the first reading we came to Parliament and since then many hours on the same subject. In this respect too, you want to turn history around with your claim that Parliament would not be involved. Clearly, we can't do anything. It should not be presented like this. That is not honest from the point of view we have set out in the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u152	Madam Secretary, it becomes the government's custom to invent quotes. I do not know what text you refer to when you refer to a so-called statement from me that the legal services would be associated with the majority. You cannot, of course, answer this question, because you will find the quotes you are making to me on the spot. Fortunately, they have been spoken orally and you have not had to quote them, because you know what quotes mean: something has been quoted earlier. For one of the two members of the government who are insisting on a proper debate, you have already gone a bit off the rails. Secondly, it is a punishment that, after my months of pleading for parliamentary involvement in the corona policy, you now say that we have a legal basis. Yes, of course, but that is a basis such as with powers of attorney, in which Parliament grants prerogatives. Legally this is possible, and we are not even opposed in principle; we did so in 2020. There are circumstances in which specific powers are delegated, strictly defined. It was also decided at that time that all the measures that would be taken should first be submitted to the Council of State. That was decided in 2020 and that provision was also complied with. That is not the case here. We now have a pandemic law, which at some point was put in place for a situation that we did not know yet. You yourself said, like Mr Vandenbroucke a few weeks ago, that the application of the law would no longer be for today's pandemic. That does not, of course, prevent circumstances from changing. But that law was actually made not specific to the current pandemic, but to a possible pandemic, for example this one. So that means that one cannot be allowed to act in a civilised manner. That brings me back to your accusation that we were not talking about whether the conditions were met. You did not listen, because I have just said that these conditions are so blurry that there is no formal criterion for this. This is the difference with a normal power of attorney law: you say here that in these specific circumstances and on the basis of the information available, you can invite Parliament. But the article to which you refer, shall I read the pandemic law again? It refers to conditions to be met. The general terminology of the pandemic is one of if something is or if something could become. You say that it is now a question of implementing the law that was adopted at the time. That is the trap, as I explained earlier in my speech. At some point, as Members of Parliament, as the Prime Minister said at the committee meeting, we are obliged to tie our hands on our backs and give them away. As Members of Parliament, we cannot actually say that we do not agree with the introduction or activation of the pandemic law, as it is a legal necessity. That's a tox screen on your pandemic bill. It is a trap in which a parliament suddenly finds that, on the basis of blurry criteria, it has to put itself out of play. That's the essence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u153	Mr De Roover, allow me to ask you two questions. You are talking about a trap, but I would like to ask you whether or not the pandemic law was democratically approved in Parliament. That question, almost a yes-no question, you can answer. My second question is whether, according to you, Article 2, 3rd of the pandemic law is fulfilled, in other words, whether the conditions are met. That too seems to me to be a yes-no question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u154	Madam Minister, the point I am making is that, just by adopting the pandemic law, Parliament is being caught in a trap. You are actually saying that when the conditions are met, we as Members of Parliament can only give up our power. The answer to the question whether the conditions are met is, of course, not a mathematics exercise. You can say that it has been met, many experts can also say so. However, I cannot answer that question because your criteria...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u155	Mr De Roover, I admire your rhetorical talent, but you do not answer the question. Even if it is a trap, entirely according to your interpretation, the question is whether the pandemic law was adopted in Parliament and is applicable. That's a yes-no question, but you didn't answer yes or no. The second question is whether Article 2 is complied with, thirdly. That too is a yes-no question. You can easily answer both questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u156	No, because Article 2 speaks, for example, of "many people." What's a lot? Read that to me. What's a lot?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u157	Indeed, "a large number of people may be affected and seriously affect or affect their health."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u158	Yes, that was met, but that was also met a month ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u159	But what are you saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u160	Why didn't you activate the pandemic bill a month ago?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u161	I really don't know why you refuse to answer two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u162	Why didn't you activate the pandemic bill a month ago?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u163	You do not answer the two questions because you know that the answer is "yes" twice, that is why.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u164	It's been met. It was met last week. It will be fulfilled next month. It will be fulfilled six months ago. It's likely to be met again within six months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u165	Six months ago, the pandemic law didn't exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u166	With how many people it's rising, it's not a criterion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u167	It doesn't matter. That's the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u168	That's because of the sloppyness of your pandemic law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u169	I don't get it. You confirm that the conditions have been met.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u170	Mr Vandenbroucke has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u171	Of course it's fulfilled. It has always been met by the sloppyness of the legislation. That's the point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u172	Mr De Roover, calmly, I find this really an unlikely passage in this debate. You say that it is always complied with and that it is about sloppy legislation. However, this is how this legislation works. You find them sloppy but we have put the legislation together in such a way that we ask for advice from the Risk Assessment Group, the Risk Management Group, the GEMS, the Commissioner, etc. These agencies, in which the virologists and epidemiologists are present, have said several times that there is no reason. The Commissioner has said several times on the basis of the opinions of the epidemiologists that there is no reason for us to read the law. At some point the Commissioner said: 'We read the law and we think there is a reason now'. Those people seem to be able to do that. They are giving us an opinion on this. That advice doesn't have to be binding on us, it's an advice. You've been here for an hour now saying it can't be done at all. Do you know what it is, Mr. De Roover? You are wringing yourself in all possible turns here to not have to look at colour in response to a simple question that lies ahead here. It's that question that interests the Flemings, not all this stuff. Do you think that we are in a serious situation that makes it necessary for us to be ready to act quickly? We think it is. You yourself do not want to say whether you think it is or not, you flee into some sort of agnosticism by saying that you do not know. I also think I know why you're running away in this kind of I-know-it-not-discourse. Your party is fully involved in this story in the Flemish government. On this basis, it shall take decisions within the Consultation Committee. This is where you want to stand up. You can only go home and keep yourself somewhat straight by saying here that you do not know. I think that's the way it is. That's all I'm gonna say. I'm gonna listen to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u173	Minister, I hope that you will be able to reach a higher level in the university's lecture halls, because what you are putting forward here is unlikely. It is classic that you refer to the Consultation Committee if you do not have an answer, but that is not the point. I said that the criteria in the law are very blurry and sloppy and that there is actually no objective measure to determine whether or not they have been met. It can't be. Now listen carefully, Professor. Perhaps students rarely contradict you and have, for that reason, raised such an attitude, but you are now invited to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u174	Yeah, get to the point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u175	If you had come to the point, we could have voted on it by now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u176	You want a parliamentary debate. I'm asking for your details to be made clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u177	I'll tell you what it's about. Professor, listen carefully, we are not in a situation where it is necessary to deprive Parliament of its powers to deal with the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u178	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u179	Mr Boukili, I think your comments have caused this debate to a great extent!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u180	Madam Secretary, I admire your comic talent. I have some doubts as to whether it's comical talent or selective memory. You blame Mr De Roover for taking part in an opinion of the Legal Service of the Chamber, which Mr De Roover denies. However, I do not know whether your memory goes back as far as the Health Committee, if I am not mistaken, of 28 October 2021, which approved the cooperation agreements. You approved them, we didn't. The funny thing is that when these agreements were signed, they were also provided with a number of opinions from the Council of State. Then what happened? The opposition, among others, Mr Boukili, then also set up a small tree on it, when he found that your fellow minister, although the government is one and indivisible, did follow one opinion and others did not. The question was why he did that. One of these unfollowed opinions was to seek advice from the GBA. Mr. Secretary, you do remember that. The Council of State stated that it was not because there was no change in the cooperation agreements that the Minister should not seek advice. The minister replied that nothing changed and that the government would not ask for advice. I'm just following the circular reasoning. The Council of State is doing a preemptive strike by stating that, although nothing changes, the Minister should still ask the GBA for advice. However, that is precisely the argument used not to seek advice. Mr Boukili, you will remember that at that time we made some play, as it is called in beautiful Dutch. There's been a lot of discussion. The result was that nothing has changed. The government did not accept that part of the opinion. Two weeks later, I hear the Minister saying that Mr De Roover is taking part in an opinion. What the hell is that? How dare he? However, we must note that the government is following advice which suits it and adapts it to possible cooperation agreements. On the other hand, opinions which the government does not agree with are ignored. Madam Secretary, I do not know whether to call it comical or cynical. I'll leave it in the middle. However, it is very bizarre that you are now questioning the democratic content of the opposition, while you are playing Democrat or your government is democratic when it suits you and her. So spare us the reproaches.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u181	I'd also like to refresh the memory. It is true that the criteria of Article 2, 3° have been decided, not only in Parliament or by the government, but also very comprehensively by experts at the hearings, which was some time ago, as well as by the Council of State, which did not comment on the clarity of Article 2, thirdly. So it's not anything, it's not too vague, it's not applicable or it's not useful. Once again, even if you do, that is of course your right to do so, and yet Parliament has democratically agreed to do so. I have just heard you say a few times that this condition has actually been met. I think we can end the debate with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u182	I propose that Mr Boukili continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u183	Let's go back to where we were. Mr Vandenbroucke, to follow your advice, I will try to be consistent and logical. And in order to make sure that I leave on a good foundation, I will start by asking Professor Vandenbroucke the question so that he can ratify it. In the Pandemic Law, does Article 5 provide for the possibility of requisitioning personnel? Is there any possibility of changing working conditions? Yes or no? I interpret your silence as a yes, unless you can say no to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u184	I refer to the answer given by Mr Verlinden, who has given a general answer that is the perfectly correct, general answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u185	This is not my question, which is: is this a possibility provided for in the Pandemic Law?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u186	Mrs Verlinden replied.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u187	This is an opportunity offered by the Pandemic Law. I will address the issue of proportionality at a later stage. In this context, this measure is quite strong, Mr. Rigot. I am answering your question at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u188	Is that a question or an assertion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u189	No, I'm answering your question. It seems to me logical that a discussion about a request for staff or an amendment to the labour regulations involves workers, since they are the first to be involved. When decisions were made in relation to the world of work, were they consulted? Does the possibility of requisitioning staff provide for consultation with trade unions? No, even Parliament cannot react and cannot debate this measure. We are told that it will be taken in a context where proportionality will be respected. However, why would we trust you? Especially since you have proved that you are not worthy of it. When we discussed the Covid Safe Ticket Act, the Council of State had indicated that ODA advice was necessary to ensure privacy protection. You then replied textually that you didn't care and that you weren't going to ask for the opinion of ODA. When I asked you if you refused the Council of State, you said yes. And you would like me to trust you with respect to the proportionality of the measures? Where is this respect when you decide to close small businesses, while 40% of clusters are in large businesses? On what scientific basis do you decide on these measures? I do not claim that they are good or bad, but we do not know, just as we do not know whether they really respond to the health situation. We don't know if they're effective. You talked about doctors and hospital staff. Their first claim is an increase in staff and beds. Since the beginning of the pandemic, how many beds have been opened? I don't know. You know that, minister? When it comes to evaluating the measures to be put in place, listen first to the people on the ground. When we talk about beds: how many beds have they been created? This is the first request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u190	That's not an answer to my question. If you ask me any questions...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u191	I'm not asking you questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u192	I'm waiting for your answer. You've been saying from the beginning that the solution is consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u193	Did you hear what I said?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u194	You're saying it's a total party and we're offering full powers to the government. Have you read the original text, which you constantly criticize, but which is not - as the minister has said - on the agenda? First, it contained a framework that determined the conditions, the signals that had to be confirmed in order to activate the royal decree, which was subsequently confirmed by a law. Second, the framework identified what action could be taken. They're defined. Especially with regard to work, if you read Article 5 of the measures, you will find that you cannot take all the measures, contrary to what you say.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u195	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u196	The least of the corrections is that you let me finish before I give you the floor. Thirdly, measures are limited in time. Fourthly, there is control of Parliament. It is therefore not correct to say that this is a special law with full powers. That's not true, Mr. Boukili, you have to stop saying it. I will also ask you to stop calling the minister "professor" in this House. I am not a criminologist but a Member of Parliament, and I invite you to call him the Minister and not "Mr Professor"; this is not an appropriate attitude to this House!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u197	Madam President, the floor was withdrawn while I was speaking and I did not hear that you were giving it to Mr Rigot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u198	Stop playing, you call it yourself! You have the floor and enjoy it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u199	Mr Rigot, the first thing I would do is not to exclude the parliamentary debate. That is what the Pandemia law does and that is the reproach. Because you're saying here we're discussing activation, but what do we do here? If you want us to talk about this, there is nothing to say! But the consequence is enormous. That's gonna activate the Pandemic Law. It is therefore normal and absolutely necessary for us to talk about it. You say, what should be done? But we must not prevent democratic debate! Why are you preventing Parliament and civil society from being involved in this health debate? Why? There is no reason to exclude Parliament and civil society from this debate because they are the first to be involved. The measures we are taking concern them. People don't ask you not to take action! They simply want to know why these measures are being taken and what measures will be put in place. People want to be involved in this debate. You not only exclude people, but also their representatives in Parliament. That's the big problem with this Pandemic Law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u200	Madam President, by hearing Mr Boukili appeal to civil society, I would like to refer to a press release from the League of Human Rights (LDH) dated 8 October, entitled "The government is outlawing the law." Does the LDH describe this in response to the proposal to trigger the Pandemic Act? No! She calls it because we don't trigger it. What does this press release say? The LDH has not hidden itself from receiving much criticism of the content of the Pandemic Law. This statement says: "This law has a positive point: it excludes from its entry into force the application of the Act of 15 May 2007 to epidemic emergencies covered by the Pandemic Act. Laws must protect us citizens from arbitrariness. The 2007 Act cannot provide a basis for health measures other than those provided for in the Pandemia Act, except that the framework provided for in the Act which has just entered into force no longer makes sense. We cannot allow the government to choose between two bases, one more restrictive, the other more permissive, to adopt the same measures." That is what civil society we have heard in the hearing has to say about the activation of the Pandemia Act. Mr Boukili, now, without the Pandemic Law being activated, are all the measures you fear and talk about possible? Do you find that the 2007 Civil Security Act protects workers' rights better than the Pandemic Act? Do you find that the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 protects citizens' rights and freedoms better than the Pandemic Act? Do you find that the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 allows Parliament to control the government better than under the Pandemic Act? Does this pandemic law deprive you of parliamentary control that you currently have under the Act of 15 May 2007? The answer to all these questions is no. At one point, we can fight for a long time on ministerial orders, and I have, too, but we still have to be on the right side. This law doesn't deprive you of anything. It allows for additional controls. Honestly, I have a little difficulty understanding the debate that is taking place today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u201	Mrs Hugon, when did you hear me say that the 2007 law was the democratic way to manage a pandemic? I denounced her when we were acting by ministerial orders under the 2007 Act. I'm not telling you that you have to choose between the Pandemic Law and the 2007 Law. I say that when we want to take measures that concern the population, this must be done through a parliamentary debate and a vote. The 2007 law prevented parliamentary debate because of ministerial orders, and the pandemic law did the same. We're acting by ministerial orders. The measures are not voted on in Parliament. That's my question! I don't want to act with the law 2007. I never said that and I don't understand your question. At the time, I denounced the operation by ministerial decrees on the basis of the 2007 law, and I still denounce it today. I also denounce the operation of the pandemic law. What I'm proposing is something else. Let us say that we want to take measures, such as curfews: this might be legitimate and proportionate, but what makes it possible for us to know? It is a parliamentary debate that ends with a vote. Indeed, in a parliamentary debate, one arrives with arguments, one justifies, one defends his position. This is not the case when we act by ministerial decree or by royal decree. At that time, Parliament has only to look at and say whether it is happy or not, but it has no right to vote. When we adopt royal or ministerial orders to implement measures, Parliament will have nothing to say. He will be informed. This is well written in the Pandemic Law. But he won't have anything to say. I, this method, refuse it either by the 2007 law or by the pandemic law. What I want is a debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u202	To return to the beginning of my speech, Mr Boukili makes a great deal of use of the positions of civil society. What I wanted to recall is that a civil society organization on which Mr. Boukili has relied extensively in all the discussions on the Pandemic Law is now calling on us to activate this Pandemic Law because it allows for more leadership than is currently being done also in terms of parliamentary oversight and government reporting obligations. I would like Mr Boukili to tell us whether the status quo today is to his liking better than the activation of the pandemic law which gives us additional means of control.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u203	There's no deafer than the one who wants to hear. I have just answered exactly that question. As far as the status quo is concerned, I have just said exactly the opposite. No, I'm not for the status quo. You say that the pandemic law may be better at the legal level than the 2007 law and that a civil society organisation wants a legal framework. That is what civil society has been saying since the beginning. But during the hearings, the organisation you are quoting insisted that the measures must be discussed and voted on in Parliament so that they are legitimate. This has not been retained or incorporated into the Pandemic Law! It's a mistake the government made. Mrs Hugon, I am not for the status quo. No! You're happy with the pandemic law. I want to go further at the democratic level. I want these to be parliamentary debates. How do you find it difficult for the measures to be discussed in a democratic parliamentary debate? What is the motivation not to do so? That is my question and you have no answer to that question. If you prefer to act by royal decree, I would prefer to have a parliamentary debate on the measures. If we decide to introduce a curfew, I want to have a debate here on whether this is proportional and whether the conditions are in place to do so. I can't know that. When it's decided by royal decree or ministerial decree, I don't have that information. There is no justification for such measures. How can we justify, for example, preventing rallies or demonstrations and leaving trams and buses crowded? I don't have the answers. Maybe it's logical or normal, but I can't know because I'm not involved in the debate. That's exactly what I'm blaming! We have to get out of this status. Pandemic law in no way improves the status quo in terms of lack of democratic debate. It's something that still doesn't exist, even with a pandemic law. And I am surprised, Mrs Hugon, that a member of your group finds that the pandemic law meets democratic conditions. I expected a little more democratic ambition from you. After these interventions and this lively debate, of which I have not known how long it lasts, I shall conclude. In fact, I note that the discussion of this text of three articles is only a formality. I thought we were going to have a serious debate on the activation of the pandemic law, but it turns out it's only a formality. Following what I have just said, I have a proposal to perhaps give Parliament a second chance to keep a hand, or in any case to be involved in the debates. I have tabled an amendment, which has been declared admissible. It deals with Article 2 and proposes to the government that when it wants to put in place measures that affect the population, measures to respond to the epidemic crisis, they be discussed here in Parliament, upstream, and that on the basis of a debate, we be able to draw the conclusions after the government has justified and presented the elements that force it or that push it to make such a decision. I think that is a very reasonable proposal. I am not asking for a vote or anything, but simply for the government to come to justify its action. I think that's something we can agree on, majority as opposition. When the executive wants to take action, it must at least come and explain it here in Parliament before taking it. It's different when we take out the royal decree and Parliament has to run behind it. No! I propose to involve Parliament in the process of taking action. I hope that this amendment will be accepted by my fellow Members, whether they are from the majority or the opposition, because we are all aspired – I have that ambition in any case – to a truly democratic debate. Madam Chair, I will conclude by saying that one of the worrying elements of this legislation is that it resumes a panel of measures that could be activated during the pandemic. But, as I said before, these are measures that are inadequate in terms of efficiency and coherence. The same mechanisms are reproduced here. The main problem with this pandemic law is that it confirms the policy that has been in place for almost two years. There is no challenge to the government, as it follows the same logic and mechanisms. It is as if, for almost two years, everything had been nickel and since all management had been perfect, it was included in a law text that will be the Bible for the management of a pandemic. I come back to the question of the masks that were not necessary at first and were then still necessary and on the order of the masks that were ultimately not compliant. Is this assessment logical enough to keep it and include it in a law? We will pursue this same policy. I really hope that we will get out of this crisis, but I think that if we continue in this way, we will, above all, have another crisis, a real crisis of democracy, a real crisis between the population and the political world. And that will be your responsibility, because instead of including, in the debates and in the decision-making, the population that is the first concerned, you are increasingly excluding it and you are riding alone. It is as if the right decisions were taken only in the ministerial offices, while, when there were contaminations at AB InBev, the government remained with its hands crossed and it was the workers who had to strike to impose measures! This is a lesson that the workers teach you. So the least we can do is to have the humility to ask them the question and ask their opinion to take action instead of continuing as you have done for the past two years, since the situation is not improving. You do not need to rely on the PTB to support you in this process. We will therefore vote against the activation of the pandemic law because we are against this anti-democratic, dangerous and liberticide law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u204	Your message seems to be over, Mr. Boukili.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u205	Mr Boukili, you want to table an amendment on the text we are talking about today. Since the Legal Service indicated yesterday that it was a formal law and not a normative law, how are you going to incorporate this amendment into a formal law? Before we have a debate on the substance, we need to have a debate on the form. That's what you did yesterday. It must also be done so that you do not say that Parliament did not wish to follow us in substance. We'll see about that later. I'm asking the form question to do you a favor. I would like to make one last point, and then I will not speak today. You talk about accession and you keep saying that we are undermining the accession of our fellow citizens. I think that your divided and divided speeches undermine the support of our fellow citizens. We must put an end to this by having a true speech and by not deceiving the citizen about the purpose of the texts that we are putting forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u206	Madam President, I will answer the second question and then I will address you for the first question. Mr Rigot, people are smart enough not to wait until I tell them what to think. She doesn't expect me to make a Facebook publication or press release to say she has a membership problem. Citizens don't expect me to make a statement about what to think. The failure of government policy at the health level, they live it every day and don't need me to see it. As far as the amendment is concerned, I have asked myself the same question as you. I tabled this amendment because when we passed the Pandemic Law, I was told that we were going to have a democratic debate. I thought that amendments could then be tabled. I sent this amendment asking myself whether it was admissible. I cannot answer that question and I trust the services of the House and the Speaker to determine whether or not it is admissible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u207	If I understand correctly, you're asking me a question. I received an amendment. On the other hand, I have not received any question from you as to whether or not it was admissible. I just received an amendment. I simply thought that the PTB wanted to table an amendment and not whether or not it was admissible. The reasoning that prevailed, since I'm ahead of your question...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u208	I sent the amendment to the services. As a first step, I was told that it was inadmissible because it was a formal law. We took note of that decision. Then we received another decision stating that it was admissible. So I don't have the answer. Mr Rigot is asking me a question that I cannot answer. Can this amendment be adopted? I don't know. I would therefore like to ask you for an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u209	On the one hand, in order to make things clear, you have never referred to me the question of the admissibility of your amendment. I will therefore leave you in control of your words! On the other hand, you are aware of the history of previous sessions in which amendments were tabled and declared admissible. From then on, I was waiting for you at the turn. If I had declared this amendment inadmissible, you would obviously have demonstrated a different view from case to case. I therefore decided in my soul and awareness that we would see what your amendment would become. You are tabling an amendment. I suppose you really want to table this amendment. On the substance, the text remains a formal bill, as we have previously argued. This has been the subject of sufficient inquiries, questions and notes. I think things are clear enough for everyone, but I also believe that everyone has seen the aim of tabling your amendment well!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u210	Madam President, if everyone has understood the objective pursued, let me know because, as far as I am concerned, I have not understood it. My objective is, in any case, to give this Parliament a chance to be involved in taking action. You're giving me intentions...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u211	I do not lend you any intentions, I note that you have tabled an amendment on a formal text. Logically, this text cannot be amended.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u212	Can this text not be amended or does it become a substantive text if the amendment is approved?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u213	No. The text remains formal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u214	So the amendment is not admissible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u215	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u216	So what do you say?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u217	Your amendment is under consideration today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u218	Is it admissible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u219	I assume that when you table an amendment, you do so in spirit and conscience and in full responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u220	Of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u221	You have tabled an amendment. With the services, we have decided that this amendment is admissible since there is a certain anteriority in this matter that you are aware of.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u222	Does that mean that it can be adopted?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u223	There will be a vote on your amendment. I cannot prejudge the outcome of this vote, Mr Boukili.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u224	My question is simple: can it be adopted or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u225	Mr Boukili, there will be a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u226	And if the vote is in favour of what will happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u227	It's not about "if." I'm talking about what's going to happen today. There will be a vote. I have no control over the rest. I'm not alone in this chamber. There's 150 of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u228	Madam President, on the one hand we have been told that there will be a democratic debate and that Parliament will have its say when it comes to activating the pandemic law. In my view, this means that amendments can be tabled, that there can be decision-making and proposals. On the other hand, I am told that this law cannot be amended because it is formal. I wish I could understand. Does Parliament have something to say and can it therefore take legislative initiatives? Or does he have nothing to say because it is a formal law and, in doing so, we are gathered here just for form, fun, since everything is already decided? That's what I want to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u229	The proposal is formal. Your amendment is not. It does not concern the text under consideration today, it concerns another text. You take responsibility for tabling it and your goal is that there be a vote. I am happy to say that there will be a vote on your amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u230	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it would be too easy to remove those who question the way in which we are seized today from those who want nothing and do not want measures. On the one hand, there would be the bad guys who do not want measures and on the other, the good ones, who want measures to combat the pandemic and this new wave, and who must therefore agree with this text. The truth lies in my view elsewhere. I would like to try to bring the necessary nuance to this debate because it is necessary. Obviously, we need strong measures to combat the pandemic and this new wave. On the other hand, it would be extremely easy to interpret what we would say about the modalities as a refusal to take any action. I do not need to remind you of our opposition to the adoption of the Pandemic Law in July. It gives the government the power to violate the rights and freedoms of our citizens, whereas Parliament is normally the guarantor of the protection of these rights. The events of the last few days and hours have shown how the government and the majority have been paddling for months in the legal management of the pandemic: improvised, corrected and corrected cooperation agreements, contradictory decrees and ordinances, royal decrees that arrive more than late, not to mention the bills that also arrive far too late. A cat wouldn't find his little ones there! We remain convinced that it would have been much better to adopt the necessary measures through bills or bills. It was possible, but it would have been necessary to show a minimum sense of anticipation. However, it is not the strong point of this government, which usually lags behind, rather than a step forward. Since the end of August, we knew that contamination would resume in the fall. Our colleague Catherine Fonck has, more than regularly, re-inquired about this, recalling the difficulty that the pandemic was going to pose at that time. Since then, we also know what measures should be taken to limit these contaminations. It was therefore perfectly possible to adopt the necessary measures at a reasonable pace through legislation. Today we are asked to approve the Royal Order declaring the epidemic emergency and to validate the special powers given to the government to manage the epidemic, including by reducing our rights and freedoms. You will understand that we cannot, by means of a positive vote, validate a method of crisis management which is undemocratic, since it leaves Parliament aside, but also because it lacks efficiency. On the one hand, it operates a delegation to a government that has hardly shone by its vision and its sense of anticipation. On the other hand, it deprives the measures adopted of the legitimacy that would be conferred upon them by the representatives of the nation. This does not, therefore, favour the support of our fellow citizens for these measures. Above all, do not see in our refusal to support your method an opposition to the rapid adoption of measures to combat the increase in contamination, hospitalizations and the number of deaths. The situation is serious, and we are fully aware of it. Therefore, we do not dispute the measures that need to be taken, but the way in which you want to take them on the basis of the pandemic law. However, it would have been possible, in a conventional and democratic process of drafts and bills, to discuss the appropriateness of the measures to be taken since the end of the summer. In short, we do not dispute the measures taken, but we do not want the government to take them. It is a question of democracy for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u231	Madam President, I will not go back to the Pandemia Act as such, since this debate has indeed taken place and at that time my party has had the opportunity to say that this law is totally inappropriate for us in that it endorses the system of special powers. That is precisely why my party had tabled a counter-proposal for a law that offered alternatives to those unfortunately endorsed in the vote on this Pandemia law. What is at stake today is the confirmation, by law, of the royal decree adopted by the government on 28 October to enshrine this epidemic emergency, the starting point of the application of this Pandemia law, an order which, in order to continue to produce its effects, must be confirmed by Parliament within 15 days. This is what the Pandemia Act provides for from its coming into force, that is, before tomorrow. Therefore, the issue is by no means, and contrary to what I have heard from some of my colleagues, whether or not to challenge the current epidemic situation. Of course not. Unfortunately, the figures for contamination and hospitalization are current. They are all on the rise, as are the resulting postponements of care - the Minister of Health reminded us earlier this week. It's a sad reality. At the same time, however, I am surprised to see the activation of the epidemic emergency in Parliament, while the government allows itself to wait until November 19 to tarnish a concertation committee to respond to the same emergency. As François De Smet, who has followed all the work on the Pandemia law, has said, the challenge is whether or not to organize a real submission from Parliament to the government in times of crisis, whereas that is not how the management of the epidemic will be strengthened. Indeed, amendments to the original bill of the Pandemia Act had been made as a result of the various opinions received, in particular those of the Council of State. However, these amendments have not been sufficient to change the very logic of this law, namely that from the moment that the state of health emergency was established by a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers and then validated by a law - which is at our disposal today - the Federal Parliament will lose any real control over the continuation of the management of the health crisis, beginning with the restrictions of fundamental freedoms. Unlike some colleagues, I absolutely do not dispute the legitimacy of some of these restrictions in an exceptional context of pandemics. I would point out, however, that these restrictions must meet the requirements of proportionality, as the Minister rightly pointed out earlier. These imperatives therefore require continuous and not ad hoc scrutiny of Parliament, nor a simple, ultimately advisory, right of scrutiny of Parliament. It is true that the Ministers will report on the measures taken during discussions in committee. It's after all the least thing. Except that the parliamentary oversight mission of the members of the Chamber cannot and should not be limited to a few question-and-answer sessions in the Health or Home Affairs Committee. We have seen, for almost two years now, how this exercise does not allow Members of Parliament to properly exercise their role of monitoring the action of the government, a constitutional mission, moreover, it must be recalled. This crisis is too serious, as is the damage to the freedoms that result from it, as well as to give the government a clear-cut in the management of this crisis and therefore also in the adoption of health measures. In conclusion, in the same way that we have not been able to support the Pandemic Act, we will not support the bill that confirms the Royal Order to Consecrate the Epidemic Emergency. Parliament must, in our view, not only endorse or reject the measures endorsed by the government, but must really have the power to amend, enrich and perfect them. That is why we will not support this bill. It does not allow Parliament to play its full role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u232	I do not know whether the ministers want to say anything, but we do not need to say that: we have just had the discussion on the substance and the substance. We will not have a major article-by-article discussion right away, I can imagine. So it's time to decide. When the pandemic law was passed, the power of attorney due to pandemic situations, it was said that it would allow Parliament to have more room for decision-making. That's what we've been able to find out today. The democratic area is that we have been given a text. We cannot ask the opinion of the Council of State for this. We cannot ask for a second reading. We cannot table amendments. According to the Prime Minister, it is a legal inevitability and therefore we cannot actually vote against it. I suspect that it is still allowed to look at the text and that we have summarised the parliamentary area in the debate. I think that illustrates the sadness of the pandemic law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u233	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u234	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2295/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2295/3) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u235	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u236	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mrs De Jonge, Mr Delizée and Mrs Leroy, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u237	Madam President, sometimes politics is ironic, because it is a coincidence, but it is also very appropriate, that this draft comes after the proposal in relation to the pandemic situation. I'm declaring myself. The draft law seeks to respond to a very legitimate demand in the light of the increasing number of long-term COVID-19 cases involving workers in the working environment. There was also an advice from Fedris with expertise on how the link with the work is sufficiently substantiated. Reportedly - the relevant texts have not been delivered to the committee; I have had to hear this from the Minister, all the criteria have been correctly included in a royal decree. One criterion is, for example, that in 14 days, 5 infections must have taken place in order to demonstrate scientifically that the disease was likely to occur at work. Since we did not see the KB in committee, we had to rely on the Minister's explanation and that sounded good. In substance, I fully agree with your solution. However, I am beginning to suspect that the government is only working on one matter in all ways and that is closing our boîte. After all, what are we doing today? We are not discussing any criteria which appear to have been included in a royal decree which has been approved. We are discussing here today a bill that will allow the government to intervene in the law on occupational diseases by royal decree from now on. You will understand that the Minister's explanation is that the principle of caution is respected, since the King must approve the royal decision, if N-VA did not reassure him immediately. In short, the government proposes that a draft law should allow the government to take a royal decision to intervene retroactively and in exceptional cases in the law on occupational diseases. The term "exceptional' is not defined. That is what the government will call exceptional. That has become a peculiar habit of the Vivaldi government. Once again, she says that from now on she will no longer have to come to Parliament with such measures and regulate everything herself. However, it is about far-reaching decisions, with major budgetary implications, if the scheme is applied to other diseases as well. However, it had the option of simply incorporating the criteria that are now being decided into the law. We would have been delighted to vote in favour. Now we are going to vote against it with equal conviction, because we are really tired of being consistently chosen here for the option that Parliament is abandoning and giving more and more power to a government that does not even have to explain it anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u238	Madam President, Minister, in March 2020, the covid-19 pandemic hit us hard. At that time, neither the scientific world nor the political world had much knowledge about this disease, and very quickly hospitals and the medical world at the front line were confronted with SARS-CoV-2. While these front-line sectors were, of course, recognized as one of the existing legal provisions for other sectors, recognition as an occupational disease was not obvious. It was also difficult to prove that contamination had been caused in the workplace and not in the private sphere. Today, with a better understanding of the disease, the contamination process and the findings on the ground, including the physical consequences for contaminated patients in the workplace, appropriate action can be taken. Because it was obvious that the covid-19 virus could be recognized as an occupational disease. Royal Decree No 39 of 26 June 2020 introduced a temporary exception scheme to allow the recognition as an occupational disease of the Covid-19 for workers working in crucial sectors and so-called essential services, i.e. all sectors which could not use telework and for which it was difficult to maintain social distancing. Today, medical and epidemiological knowledge continues to evolve and one realizes that each workplace can be a cluster of contamination. Therefore, recognition as an occupational disease can and should be implemented. The government set out to do this by setting beacons, i.e. a minimum of five contaminations that occurred during a 14-day period at a workplace. If this is the case, the worker will be entitled to recognition as an occupational disease. However, it should be borne in mind that a worker with covid-19 who does not meet the conditions can always initiate what is known as the open recognition procedure. Last point raised, as exceptional as necessary, a retroactive effect is put in place for this recognition. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a good reform that my group and I will support. Before concluding, it should be noted that the original text was amended. The Covid Support Measures Act of 4 July 2021 granted a subsidy to reduce contributions to the annual holiday scheme in the horeca sector. Since this €110 million federal intervention is considered to be state aid by the European Union, it requires the imposition of cumulative conditions in order to benefit from it, hence the subject of the amendments that we will also support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u239	Madam President, indeed, during the pandemic, the role of covid virus transmission in the workplace has long been denied. At one point, Mr. Timmermans of the FEB said that the company was the safest place to go to work. When the cluster numbers were known in schools or in places of life, it was clear that the companies were out of business. At some point, they were responsible for 40% of the infections. With the PTB, from the beginning, we denounced this situation and argued for covid to be recognized as an occupational disease. We are therefore very pleased today to agree that in the event of clustering, recognition is possible. Indeed, until now, unless you were working in health care, it was up to the worker to prove that he had been infected in the workplace. One third of such requests are currently denied by Fedris. So it is hoped that this will be good news, if we can say so. Of course, having a co-vid is still bad news, but it's a relief to be at least recognized, to have a 90% income, to be paid and reimbursed for all medical expenses. We are also thinking about the long-term consequences, among other things, for people with long covids. I am also thinking in particular here of the police officers of the City of Charleroi who had been the victims of a cluster last summer and who unfortunately had not been recognized by the Fedris. We hope that they will be able to return a new request. Of course, it is with great sadness that I see, in Sciensano's last report, that there are more than 5,500 clusters active in our country, including almost 1,000 in companies. It's huge! A lot of people are getting sick. The first thing to do is to prevent this, but it is also to recognize that they have been infected in the workplace. With respect to this bill, while Sciensano considers that there is a cluster from two infections related to each other, unfortunately, Fedris takes five infections as its criterion. I'm sorry. I am thinking in particular of the domestic helpers of service titles which are rarely five to be infected, since they go to clients alone. They can hardly prove that there is a cluster and be recognized. They will therefore always have to use the open system. I am also thinking of the larger companies that, as soon as there are one, two or three infections, will take the necessary steps to prevent the spread of the virus. In this case, the first workers who have fallen ill will not in fact have the right to recognition. I'm sorry, too. It is obvious that we will not hesitate to come back to this subject and to defend the fact that every person who contracts the covid at his or her place of work can be recognized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u240	This draft law will also be supported by Vooruit. We are particularly pleased that, under certain conditions, corona contamination at work is finally recognised as an occupational disease. This also allows non-care workers to apply for recognition and receive financial compensation when they experience long-term effects of covid, in the case of long covid. They can now be reimbursed financially. Sciensano has produced sufficient reports on clusters and infections at work, such as infections at AB InBev. In the meat sector, too, there were at some point contamination clusters that people suffer the consequences of. It is important that the recognition of covid as an occupational disease concerns not only infections that have occurred between workers but also infections that are incurred in contact with customers or other people entering the workplace. Mrs Merckx just said that it is regrettable that the criterion is not limited to cluster contamination of two persons. Since it is also a matter of contamination caused by customers or other people passing through the workplace, this leaves a little more room for certain people to have their covid recognised as an occupational disease. Despite this recognition, there is a connection. The best way to avoid covid is, of course, prevention. I realize that sometimes this is difficult, which was certainly the case during the period we have been through. In the case of contamination in the meat industry, inspection has been carried out and sometimes too few preventive measures have been taken. Even today, with the situation we are facing today, prevention is still very important. Better safe than sorry. It is still very important for employers to follow the directives and take the necessary preventive measures. For some, this is telework, but for others needed in the workplace, the guide must be followed with all possible measures. Even if preventive measures are taken, contamination can always be prevented. I think it is logical that workers in key sectors that have taken and still do health risks will be able to count on solidarity from now on. If the disease has long-lasting effects, it will be recognised as an occupational disease. I think this is an important step forward for all those who are still bearing the consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u241	Madam Chair, this bill achieves an objective for which my party has been advocating for a long time – for almost a year now – the real recognition of covid-19 as an occupational disease, by integrating all patients of covid-19 and thus also patients with long covid-19. This was indeed one of the demands contained in our motion for a resolution to recognise patients with long-term covid. This was simply rejected by the majority a year ago, leaving patients with the long form of covid-19 in an infernal gear, where the stress of not being able to pay for their medical examinations, coupled with the stress of having to live without pay for months, only reinforced the psychological distress and symptoms of the disease. That is why I am particularly relieved to see that today, at last, the lines will move. These patients are in an extremely difficult situation, either physically, psychologically or financially. I am also relieved that the alarm cry, launched in committee by these patients, is finally being heard. I quote: "Some patients are sinking into precariousness." For its part, the League of Health Services Users (LUSS) has consistently stressed the importance of preserving employment and the socio-professional reintegration of these patients. So yes, the observation is clear, and even bitter. It would have been necessary to act well before, both for patients with long covid-19 and for others, in view of the extremely restrictive conditions that still surround the recognition of covid-19 as an occupational disease. Finally, this project allows for the recognition of an occupational disease with retroactive effect to 18 May 2020. This recognition will no longer be confined to professional activities which lead to an increased risk of contamination, such as the health care sector, the crucial sectors or so-called "essential" services, which have had to continue their professional activities despite everything, without being able to resort to telework or to respect the rules of social distancing. This means that all covid-19 patients will be able to have their occupational disease recognized regardless of the sector in which they work. After all, it is only justice that is done here. However, the path chosen to broaden the spectrum of people who can recognize their infection with covid-19 as an occupational disease leaves me puzzled, as do some of my colleagues. A royal decree, which seems ready, but which has not yet been published – since it obviously depends on the law now under consideration – requires a minimum threshold of five contaminations in a period of fourteen days in the workplace. This threshold, Minister, is incomprehensible for several reasons. First of all, Sciensano already defines the existence of a cluster from two related contaminations, not five. Secondly, it does not correspond to the scientific evidence to which, moreover, you attach great importance. We saw it again this week through your policy note. Finally, this threshold de facto excludes many people working in smaller structures or even alone. We talked about workers in the service securities sector or cleaning in general. We are therefore faced with a project that removes an injustice to replace a new one. In committee, Minister, you justified this choice by the need for a balance "to include covid-19 in the list of occupational diseases". But what if this balance search does not ultimately correspond to Sciensano's scientific conclusions and, moreover, proves to be detrimental to those who were entitled to be recognized? So, yes, there remains for these patients, as you mentioned, the open procedure of recognition that appears as their last chance. However, this procedure is part of a true combatant's journey, which is particularly unbearable to patients who are already severely weakened by the disease that gnaws them. Therefore, while this measure is a step forward, it is unfortunately not a step forward for everyone. On the other hand, any measure must be operational, at the risk of losing any usefulness. FEDRIS is currently facing a backlog of almost five months in the processing of these cases. It is therefore urgent to support her in her work. In this regard, Minister, you have stated that you have engaged 18 people to enable FEDRIS to address this backlog. This royal decree must be published, but also that the burden of proof it entails for patients does not become insurmountable. Indeed, if patients have to multiply the medical certificates, which will then have to be examined by FEDRIS, the recognition offered by this text will not in fact be one. I therefore hope that those who have actually contracted the virus at their workplace will be able to fully perceive the benefits of this new measure within a reasonable time, to which my group will be particularly attentive – of course. In conclusion, this bill paves the way for a necessary step forward that we cannot oppose, except that the subsequent royal order seems to contain, as I said, restrictive and insufficiently founded criteria. That is why we will abstain from voting on this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u242	This concludes the speeches, unless the minister wishes to speak. I call Mr Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u243	Madam President, this is an important draft law because we have come up with a regulation that has been very demanding and which, across sectors, recognises covid as an occupational disease. There has been a lot of discussion at Fedris, a discussion involving the social partners represented in the management committee. There has also been a great deal of demand from, for example, the police forces for a settlement. Making an appropriate arrangement was difficult. We have also discussed this many times in Parliament because the demand for a final settlement to this problem has long been resounding. I am grateful to the members of both the majority and the opposition - Mrs Merckx, Mr Colebunders, Mrs Rohonyi - for continuing to insist on this. This ultimately means that we have a balanced proposal. That does not mean that it has convinced Mrs Rohonyi or Mrs Merckx, but I think it is balanced. I do not want to go back to the specific discussion we had in committee on this, which would make us repeat too much. However, I would like to say once again that, in my view, it is a correct approach to take 5 infections as a criterion over a period of 14 days in order to justify, in a situation, the suspicion of a causal link between professional activity and disease. You have to set a certain limit value in there somewhere, and it's always a little arbitrary. One could have used 4 or 6 infections as a value, one has chosen 5. I emphasized two things in committee. Firstly, the argument that Sciensano, in his follow-up and reporting of the epidemic, speaks of a cluster from 2 infections is not entirely convincing, because there is a difference between a scientific registration on the one hand and the point from where there is a strong suspicion that this is a causal link on the other. That is something we can continue to discuss. I think this has already been well discussed in the debate at the committee meeting. I remain of the opinion that the decision strikes a good balance here. Secondly, in the same context as Mrs Vanrobaeys reminded us, the committee also stressed that it is not just about employees. There may also be suppliers or customers in the cluster viewed to say that there has indeed been a professional risk that one wishes to consider as a basis for recognition as an occupational disease. This is a balanced arrangement which must now prove that it works on the ground. Mrs Rohonyi, you are launching the right challenges. We must see the royal decree and then see the realization on the ground and the operation of FEDRIS in this respect. You're right, and you're probably going to go back to that. I think this is a very important step, after so much discussion. Mrs van Peel, I would like to refer to what has been said in committee. I have defended this in committee by saying that, at least in our view, there is a link between the fact that the closed list is being edited, supplemented, changed and this arrangement is being implemented by royal decree. If we introduce a retroactive effect on a particular occupational disease which is actually exceptional, I think it would be logical to use a royal decision for this legislative mechanism, at the same level as the level of regulation used to draw up the list itself. That can be discussed for a long time, I admit. But I believe the argument is valid. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I am actually glad that we have finally reached this stage. I hope that we will be able to do this properly. I assume that the members of the majority and the opposition will follow this very critically. I would also like to point out that Mrs Vanrobaeys is, of course, right to say that there is also prevention here. We met today with the Group of Ten. One of the conclusions of that meeting which drew the Group of Ten is that it is indeed necessary to re-use the Generic Guide, which contains important preventive measures to avoid covid in the workplace. Well, that's essential, isn't it? I am glad that the Group of Ten has confirmed that again today. So far, Madam President, my comments on what has been said here by the various speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u244	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u245	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2251/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2251/4) The title has been amended by the committee in draft law amending the laws relating to the prevention of and compensation for occupational diseases, coordinated on 3 June 1970 and amending the Act of 29 June 1981 establishing the general principles of social security for employed persons". The title was amended by the Committee in draft Law amending the laws on the prevention of occupational diseases and the compensation for damage caused by those diseases, coordinated on 3 June 1970 and amending the Law of 29 June 1981 laying down the general principles of social security for workers.' the bill has 8 clauses. The draft law contains 8 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u246	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u247	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u248	Greet Daems, Thierry Warmoes, Raoul Hedebouw. The Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate proposes to reject this bill. (1971/3) The Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate proposes that the bill be rejected. (1971/3) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on the proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u249	The rapporteur is Mrs Buyst. It shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u250	Madam President, I am replacing Mr Greet Daems, who has stuck to this dossier. Unfortunately, she received a call this morning that she had had a risk contact. Here I salute her, because of course she follows us online. Ladies and gentlemen, biofuels based on agricultural crops do not sustain our transport in a socially just way. It is strange to say that there is almost unanimity on this, but our proposal to restrict biofuels was rejected by one vote in committee. So you do not seem to be sufficiently aware of the seriousness of the matter and I will explain it to you again. Then there is at least no excuse for voting. I must say, Madam President, that our proposal was voted down in a rather rude manner: certain groups were no longer there and the proposal was voted down because all the parties in the majority rejected Article 1. Why is the proposal so important? First and foremost, first generation biofuels have higher carbon emissions over their entire life cycle than ordinary fossil motor fuels. This seems surprising and applies not only to soya and palm oil, but also to rape oil, which is why Minister Khattabi wants to replace soya and palm oil. For example, in Le Soir of 7 October, we read that, on the basis of a report from the European Commission, biodiesels based on soya, palm and rape oil in Belgium led to an increase of 8.5% in emissions in the transport sector by 2020. Indeed, rape oil is a little less bad than soya and palm oil, but it is absurd that we should opt for alternative fuels that generate even more emissions than fossil fuels, which they should replace. This increase in emissions is largely due to indirect land use changes brought about by biofuels. In the North, we are all very concerned about the quality and biodiversity of our forests and other carbon sinks, but in the South, we are having qualitative carbon sinks destroyed by our biofuels use. A recent country's use study, published in the journal Nature, shows that, although there is forest in the North, forest in the South disappears for our consumption of biofuels, among other things. Also, the IPCC international climate panel is not gentle for land use change in the name of false climate solutions such as biofuels. The panel warns against adverse effects such as water scarcity, biodiversity loss, land degradation, desertification and food insecurity. Land use will always remain the problem of first-generation biofuels, because there is simply not enough land on our planet to roll out biofuels as a large-scale solution for the sustainability of our transport. Secondly, the use of biofuels results in a situation of permanent energy supply uncertainty for transport. This can be seen from the annual fluctuations in the biofuel crops available. With agricultural crops, there is always the risk that the harvest will fail. Moreover, climate change will not do any good. That is what the sector itself indicated at the hearing we were able to organise on our legislative proposal. In addition, only 3% of the crops for Belgian biofuel consumption are currently grown in Belgium. This makes us 97 % import dependent. If we were to produce all our agricultural crops for biofuel in Belgium, we would not have enough land to produce our food, which makes us even more dependent on food. In any case, the use of agricultural crops for biofuels leads to numerous conflicts with other sectors, which are no longer able to rely on necessary raw materials, as they would be used for biofuels. I refer to the answer given by Mr Van der Straeten himself to our February oral question that not only the food sector, but also the chemical and textile industries and the pharmaceutical sector need agricultural crops as raw materials. Thirdly, there is an impact on the food security and sovereignty of countries. That remains the main use conflict. Biofuels put pressure on food production. They're pushing up their prices. On 8 October, De Standaard announced that world food prices were at their highest level in ten years, according to the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations. The price of vegetable oils even increased by 60% compared to last year. This simply destroys the years of development cooperation, food aid and support for agriculture in the South. That is not a very consistent policy. Fourthly, biofuels also interfere with development work in other areas. After all, they are causing a general deterioration in human rights in the countries of the South, where the bulk of the raw materials for our biofuels are produced. Oxfam recently conducted a case study in a plantation in Peru. Why in Peru? Because Peru supplies 94 % of sugar cane ethanol for the European market. The plantation is a joint investment of Belgium and the Netherlands. The result is not good, thousands of indigenous farmers have disappeared from their country. In the region, 98 % of jobs have disappeared. The jobs that remain are of low quality, characterized by forced labour and child labour. Women are underpaid and pushed into poverty. The right to food and water of the population is being violated. The few water left is heavily polluted. In addition, the heavy smoke caused by the burning of sugar cane which affects health. Respect for human rights is still not a criterion on which biofuels entering our market must be tested. The Oxfam study concludes that Belgium has never considered the impact outside its territory in its mandatory reporting on the impact of its biofuels. So anyone who keeps talking about human rights should take this with him. Fifth, therefore, it is vengeful that the disastrous policy is also sponsored by Belgian taxpayers' and consumers' money. Until 2013, bins were awarded subsidies to the biofuel sector because otherwise it would never have gotten off the ground. After all, these companies are barely profitable. After 2013, it was the consumer who had to pay for it through an additional price at the pump, because biofuels are also more expensive and the law requires mandatory blending of biofuels. It is therefore incomprehensible that the government wants to continue to make people pay more for fuels that emit more than ordinary fuels and which also cause all kinds of other ecological and social damage. Colleagues, for the greenest government ever, that can count. Biofuels are on their way either way. The European Union is moving further and further away from biofuels. However, this does not alter the fact that there is a lobby for it. That biofuel lobby is running at full speed, to keep the first generation market desperately alive. In this respect, we need to look at proposals such as those of the federal government to exclude only soya and palm oil as raw materials for biofuels. That's a patch on a wooden leg, which just pushes the problems through to other crops. After all, if it is not soya or palm oil, it is rape oil or other oil. The problems remain broadly the same. The government explicitly wants to focus on crops that are closer to home and therefore also launch feasibility studies, which are designed to ensure that European wheat and sugar beet come out well. However, the design of such studies is so flawed that the increase in pesticide use, soil erosion and water pollution are simply not taken into account. The biofuel sector of the first generation is also trying to save its skin by switching from biodiesel to a slightly less polluting bioethanol. That bioethanol goes hand-in-hand with gross human rights violations, as I mentioned earlier and as shown by Oxfam's case study in Peru. As long as all biofuels from the first generation, i.e. agricultural-based fuels, are not phased out, the problems will only shift from bad to bad, from one crop to another. If the government increases total use, then we go from bad to worse. The total consumption of biofuels in our country increased last year, a corona year, by as much as a third, which is simply hallucinating given all the problems I have listed. The government wants to go further into that, increase it even further. Next year, the government wants to put as much as 10.2 % biofuels in our energy mix for transport, of which 8.3 % biofuels of the first generation. In doing so, this government, in its own words the greenest government ever, makes use of the back door of the European Union, so that the use of biofuels based on pure energy crops is not blocked. This is simply incomprehensible, all the more so because the models that the government has had made by the public authorities show very clearly that there is no future for biofuels for transport in a climate neutral Belgium. During the hearing, several speakers stressed that our legislative proposal is still politically relevant, despite the government's royal decisions and despite the draft bill by Minister Van der Straeten that is coming soon. It is absolutely necessary to phase out first generation biofuels as soon as possible. Additional sustainability criteria are needed for advanced biofuels, not first generation biofuels. In addition, the biennial feasibility study currently under way must have a sufficiently broad design and a sound methodology. The government isn't doing all that business right now. However, our legislative proposal is in line with that. Colleagues, it surprises me and my colleague Greet Daems that several of you reacted surprised because we didn't want to wait for the Minister's bill to put our bill to the vote. You, at least those present at the hearing, have the information and views contained in the file of the hearing. We have put on the table a clear proposal on which a political position can now be taken. That position could guide the way in which the Minister will transpose the European Renewable Energy Directive or the RED II Directive into Belgian legislation. You can now define the political ambition for the reduction of biofuels at a level that can no longer be exceeded. For those who claim to be ambitious at COP26, what is in store is therefore a concrete opportunity to demonstrate that ambition. We have also looked at the party positions of everyone before the elections. This should not be a problem, because out of the seven parties of the Vivaldi government there are no less than six who, at Greenpeace's request, indicated that they are in favour of the phasing out of biofuels of the first generation. Six out of seven parties agree. Apparently, there is one party that is much stronger than the six other parties put together and blocking the file. I have no words for that, I do not know whether to call it treason, cheating on the electorate or capitulating on the industrial lobbies. I'll give the rest a second chance. The proposal was rejected in committee. I invite you today to vote against the rejection of the proposal so that the committee can take a second and more careful look at it and change its mind. It is time to say goodbye to biofuels and draw the full picture of other ways of making our transport more sustainable. We cannot afford to wait another 15 years for the fleet to be completely electric and the problem to disappear. Moreover, I pointed out earlier that these electric cars are not a sustainable solution to the mobility problem. Climate policy can never start too early. We must now take over the future of our sustainable transport by investing massively in cheap or free public transport and softer forms of transport. This is therefore an appeal to vote against the rejection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u251	I would like to stress that, as this text has already been widely mentioned in committee, the principle here is to briefly recall its content. You just spoke for a quarter of an hour. If everyone speaks at such length, we will have to schedule multi-day plenary sessions. I would like us to think about brevity for the effectiveness of our sessions. No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u252	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u253	Marco Van Hees, Steven De Vuyst, Peter Mertens, Raoul Hedebouw, Nadia Moscufo, Gaby Colebunders, Maria Vindevoghel, Roberto D'Amico. The Committee on Finance and the Budget proposes to reject this bill. (1927/5) The Committee on Finance and the Budget proposes that this bill be rejected. (1927/5) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u254	Madam President, this is a bit of a double sentence, since not only has our proposal been rejected in committee, but we must also close it in plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u255	Who told you to shut up? When we speak for a quarter of an hour in front of 150 people, I'm not sure we can talk about closing it. You should see how the work of the European Parliament is organised. We are much stricter in speaking time. You now have the floor. Express yourself during the time you want! But if you intervene too long, you may have to face an uprising of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u256	Madam President, I would therefore point out that not only has our proposal been rejected in committee, that the Rules of Procedure require us to speak only as an author and that there is therefore no debate possible, and that you also want to limit our speaking time, which, in my opinion, is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. But let us not prolong these procedural questions! This is a bill tabled by the PTB, which was rejected in the Finance Committee and which deals with the taxation of corona unemployment. This is not a minor problem, since it concerns thousands or even tens or hundreds of thousands of workers in our country. What's the problem? In 2020, with the crisis of the covid, there was a wave of temporary unemployment corona. At the time, an average of 500,000 temporary unemployed workers were registered every month, with a peak in April 2020 to reach 1.2 million temporary unemployed. These workers had to cope with a significant loss of wages. For a median salary, this could amount to 630 net euros per month. But at one point, the government decided to limit the loss of income by increasing the professional discount from 26.75 per cent to 15 per cent. This was a priori good news for these people since the loss was only 386 euros per month for a median wage. However, this good news hid very bad news since, if the professional discount has been changed, it is not the case for the calculation of the tax. In doing so, the worker pays dearly this discount reduction when he receives his tax supplement which can be astronomical for some. The FGTB was the first to sound the alarm, explaining that some workers were at risk of paying solid tax supplements. First of all, the Minister of Finance tried to minimize the problem by claiming that it was not so much about people, that it was not so much tax, that it was not serious. But the facts are the facts! In fact, we collected at the PTB numerous testimonies from people who had to pay tax supplements of EUR 1 000, EUR 1 500 or more compared to the previous year. I'm quoting Vincent's case. He works in the cultural sector. He was unemployed for nine months in 2020 and now has to pay a tax supplement of €2,500 while usually he receives a mortgage loan repayment. I can also mention the case of Eva working in a bus company. She was completely unemployed for two and a half months. Then she resumed part-time work and was unemployed for the other half for seven months. Her husband experienced only a few days of corona unemployment and was able to work normally almost all year 2020. They have two children. Usually they get 2,500 euros and then they're going to have to pay 475 euros extra; that's a difference of almost 3,000 euros. In addition to this tax bill, there are other losses. There is obviously the loss of income, the loss of gross wages directly in 2020, the loss of meal vouchers for days of unemployment, the loss of eco-cheques and a sharp decrease in the year-end premium since the days of unemployment are not included in the calculation of the year-end premium. Our proposal is simple. Avoid tax supplements by taxing corona unemployment separately at 15%, the same percentage as the withholding tax on the discount at source. What is withheld at source is the final tax, without any supplement. This is a common sense solution that could have been easily adopted! This is all the more reasonable since it is precisely the procedure used for the taxation of corona bridge law, for the unemployment of the self-employed. The government used this method for the self-employed, and it is quite right to benefit from this tax treatment. The only question is why employees cannot benefit from it, why this discrimination. I asked the Minister of Finance several times before getting an answer, if one can speak of an answer because what the Minister of Finance told me was that an independent and an employee is not the same thing, so they are taxed separately. Let's imagine that we apply this principle to men and women: a man and a woman are two different things, so we're going to tax them differently. This is obviously a senseless argument, but that is all the Minister of Finance found to be the justification because this discrimination is unjustifiable. Another weird thing about the Minister of Finance when my colleague, Gaby Colebunders, questioned him in plenary. He asked him why he refused to tax unemployment separately as we put it in our proposal. The minister replied that for some workers, those with low incomes, the risk was to pay more taxes than if this separate tax was not applied. This is quite crazy because any taxer knows that in the Tax Code, it is provided that if separate taxation is less favourable than overall taxation, it is the overall taxation that is applicable. However, the minister repeated this anomaly several times. Obviously, there was no one in his office to tell him that he was wrong. Finally, I had to ask him an oral parliamentary question specifically on the subject to acknowledge that what he said was not reality. It should be noted that the Finance Committee has asked for the opinion of the FTGB and the CSC, which represent more than three million members. They also delivered an opinion on the bill. They share our diagnosis. There is a tax reduction for replacement income, but this tax provision is totally inadequate for the taxation of temporary unemployment. Both trade unions consider that a political initiative is needed to amend tax legislation. That is exactly what our bill is doing. Finally, Madam Chair, that the right, in the person of Minister CD&V of Finance, rejects our proposal, I can understand it, although I do not think that all taxpayers will understand it. But I am surprised, on the other hand, by the lack of support on the part of the left and the Socialist colleagues (PS and Vooruit), especially since Mr Laaouej himself called on the Minister of Finance on 10 March in plenary to take "the decisions that are necessary to make the pre-payment liberatory as is the case for the independents benefiting from the right bridge". He added that he would be very attentive to this case. Even better, Mr Laaouej and Vooruit's colleagues have tabled a bill similar to ours. No, not the same: even more radical than ours, because we are asking for 15% taxation as a professional discount. Their proposal calls for 10% taxation. Imagine! However, in committee, PS and Vooruit, like the rest of the majority, voted against our proposal. This reminds me of this interview with Thierry Bodson, the president of the FGTB in the newspaper La Libre in which he said he was disappointed with the role of progressive parties in Vivaldi. I quote: "In a seven-party team, including four progressives, even four to three, they fail to balance the balance. The Liberals often win when I was told, 'we'll play four against three or even five against two depending on the position of the CD&V'. Even in numerical superiority, we lose the football game," he concludes. The good news is that our socialist colleagues can still catch up today and vote against the rejection of our bill, so that tens of thousands of workers do not suffer these unjust tax supplements. Madam President, I hope that I have not been too long and that the vote of the Socialists will be good.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u257	I'll give it to you, you've done a little better. But you can really do better. No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u258	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u259	Vanessa Matz, Catherine Fonck, Josy Arens, Maxime Prévot, Georges Dallemagne, François De Smet. The Committee on Finance and the Budget proposes to reject this bill. (1759/2) The Committee on Finance and the Budget proposes that this bill be rejected. (1759/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u260	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if we present this text again in plenary, despite the rejection in the Committee on Finance, it is because we believe that there may be a surge on the part of the majority on a provision that it itself adopted in 2020, namely to help and support the voluntary sector, which is also suffering from the covid crisis. There was an increase in tax deductibility on the part of the Group of Ten at the time, to allow, of course, additional revenues and to encourage donors for the voluntary sector. This voluntary sector suffers enormously from the covid crisis and has not been able to organize a whole series of events which it is accustomed to organizing and which brings back funds. The voluntary sector is also an economic sector as such. Other economic sectors have been supported in a significant way and we welcome this. We have also supported the government in this regard, but we do not understand why this temporary measure that we are proposing to extend for the year 2021 has not, for the moment, received the approval of the majority. I am thinking in particular of certain political groups, particularly francophones, who had repeatedly stated that it was important for them too and that they shared the objective but did not follow when they took action, that is to say to support us for a amount that remains relatively low compared to the commitments that have been made for other sectors. I would even tend to say that this is a "ridiculous" budget. I think the majority could come back together and think that the voluntary sector needs these aids, this tax deductibility increased over the year 2021. If the government wants to review the system for the future, it can of course do so. We will participate in the work. But in this case, it is an emergency measure that must be taken. Given the epidemic situation that has been widely discussed in the declaration of the state of emergency and a number of measures that are decided upon, it is also known that there are still difficulties in organizing events, in being fluid and in raising funds. The voluntary sector employs a lot of people. It is an economic sector as such. I really ask the majority to have this surge for this small supplementary budget but which, for the associations, makes all the difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u261	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u262	We should have appointed the Vice-President of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervision Board. However, we do not have enough voters. I therefore propose that the vote be extended by one week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u263	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 23 September 2021, a call for candidates was published in the Moniteur belge of 24 September 2021 for the term of office of French-speaking physician and for three terms of Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Central Prison Supervision Board. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 23 September 2021, a call for candidates for the mandate of French-speaking Deputy Doctor and three mandates of Dutch-speaking Deputy Member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Service appeared in the Belgian Official Journal of 24 September 2021. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: For the term of French-speaking member: no nomination. For the mandate of a French-speaking member: no applications. For Dutch-speaking member terms: - Ms. Jole Carlé, prosecutor at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office; - Mr. Tom Ruysschaert, Administrative Assistant to the Harelbeke Communal Administration; - M. Henk Schuermans, ICT project manager. For the mandates of the Dutch-speaking Member: - Ms Jole Carlé, court lawyer at the Brussels parquet; - Mr Tom Ruysschaert, administrative assistant at the municipality of Harelbeke; - Mr Henk Schuermans, ICT project management. Following the previous call for candidates, the following applications were submitted for Dutch-speaking membership: - Mme Lore Geeraerts (N), candidate housesier de justice; - Mr. Pierre Lefranc (N), State Councillor at the Council of State. Following the previous call for candidates, the following applications were submitted for the mandates of the Dutch-speaking Member: - Mrs Lore Geeraerts (N), candidate bailiff; Mr Pierre Lefranc (N), Council of State at the Council of State. Therefore, there are currently sufficient nominations for these terms of office. There are therefore sufficient applications for these mandates. However, for the term of a French-speaking alternate member, there are still insufficient nominations. However, there are still insufficient applications for the mandate of a French-speaking alternate member. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2021, I propose that: - to transmit to the political groups the curriculum vitae of the candidates for the three Dutch-speaking alternate members of the Central Prison Supervision Board and to audit the candidates in the Justice Committee and, - to publish a new call for candidates to the Moniteur belge for the appointment of an alternate member of the French-speaking doctor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2021, I propose: - to deliver the curriculum vitæ of candidates for the three mandates of Dutch-speaking Deputy Member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners to the political groups and to hear the candidates on the Committee for Justice and, - to publish a new appeal to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of a French-speaking deputy doctor. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u264	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 23 September 2021 a fifth call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 24 September 2021 for the terms of office of French-speaking members for all categories ("doctor in medicine", "teacher or professor (emeritus) in law or lawyer" and "militaries in charge of the problem of patients with incurable illness"). In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 23 September 2021, a fifth call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 24 September 2021 for the mandates of French-speaking Member, for all categories ("doctor in medicine," "doctor of (emeritus) professor of law or attorney" and "circles responsible for the problems of incurable ill patients"). No new applications have been submitted. No new applications were submitted. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2021, I propose that you publish a new call to the Belgian Moniteur for all categories of French-speaking members. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2021, I propose to announce a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for all categories of French-speaking Member. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u265	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 23 September 2021 a new call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 24 September 2021 for the term of office of Dutch-speaking and French-speaking member for the category "former representatives" of the Federal Commission of Ethics. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 23 September 2021, a new call for candidates for the mandates of Dutch-speaking and French-speaking members for the category "former managers' of the Federal Deontological Commission appeared in the Belgian Official Journal of 24 September 2021. The following candidacy was submitted within the prescribed time limit: Mr Philippe Mahoux (F). The following application was submitted within the prescribed time limit: Mr Philippe Mahoux (F). Mr. Mahoux, however, submitted his candidacy for the category "former members of the House and/or Senate" while the call for candidates did not cover this category. However, Mr Mahonux applied for the category "former members of the Chamber and/or Senate" while the call for candidates does not relate to this category. As a result, there are still not enough candidates for French- and Dutch-speaking members for the category "former agents". There are therefore still insufficient applications for the mandates of Dutch-speaking and French-speaking members for the category "ex-mandates." In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2021, I propose that you declare Mr Mahoux's candidacy inadmissible and publish a new call for candidates to the Belgian Moniteur for the terms of office of Dutch-speaking and French-speaking members for the category "former representatives" of the Federal Ethics Commission. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2021, I propose that Mr Mahoux's candidacy be declared inadmissible and that a new appeal be made to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of Dutch-speaking and French-speaking members for the category "former managers' of the Federal Deontological Commission. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u266	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 23 September 2021, a second call for candidates for the terms of first and second alternate French-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services was published in the Moniteur belge of 28 September 2021 for the terms of first and second alternate French-speaking members. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 23 September 2021, a second call for candidates for the mandates of first and second French-speaking alternate member of the Standing Supervisory Committee on Police Services was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 28 September 2021. No applications were submitted. No applications were submitted. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2021, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a new call for candidates for the first and second French alternate members of the P Committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2021, I propose to publish a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of first and second French-speaking alternate member of the P Committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u267	By letter of 26 October 2021 Mr Wauter Van Laethem communicated his resignation as second alternate member of the Dutch-speaking member to the R Committee, Mr Pieter-Alexander De Brock. By letter dated 26 October 2021, Mr Wauter Van Laethem announced his resignation as the second alternate member of the Dutch-speaking member of the Committee I, Mr Pieter-Alexander De Brock. Pursuant to article 30 of the Law of 18 July 1991 on the Control of the Police and Intelligence Services and the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis, the House of Representatives shall without delay appoint a new alternate member in the event of a vacancy for an alternate member. In accordance with Article 30 of the Law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and of the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis, the Chamber of Representatives shall immediately appoint a new Deputy Member in the event of the opening of an alternate member. The Chamber must therefore appoint a new Dutch-speaking alternate member. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new Dutch-speaking second alternate member. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2021, I therefore propose that you publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the appointment of a new Dutch-speaking alternate member. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2021, I therefore propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the appointment of a new Dutch-speaking second alternate member. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u268	By letter of 20 October 2021, the King's Chief of Staff conveyed to me the wishes of His Majesty the King for the success of the work of this Assembly. By letter of 20 October 2021, the Head of the King's Cabinet sent me the wishes of His Majesty the King for the success of our Assembly's work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u269	By letter of 25 October 2021, the Attorney General of the Ghent Court of Appeal provided documents in order to enable the Chamber to possibly request the suspension of the prosecution of one of our colleagues under rule 59, para. 6 of the Constitution. By letter of 25 October 2021, the Attorney General shall send documents to the Court of Appeal in Ghent to enable the Chamber to request, pursuant to Article 59, sixth paragraph of the Constitution, a possible suspension of proceedings against one of our fellow Members. In accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the documents are referred to the Prosecution Committee. In accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the documents shall be sent to the Commission for Persecutions. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u270	The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law implementing the social agreement was tabled in the framework of the interprofessional negotiations for the period 2021-2022, No. 2304/1. The Government requested the urgency statement pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law implementing the social agreement in the framework of the interprofessional negotiations for the period 2021-2022, No. 2304/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u271	Madam President, a professional agreement must be concluded by the social partners every two years. This agreement is a fundamental moment of social consultation in Belgium, as you know, since it forms the standards for wage increases and the various employment measures. AIP 2021-2022 required numerous meetings and consultations between the social partners, as well as between them and the government. As you know, a social agreement has finally been reached and it includes, among other things, an increase in the minimum wage and measures concerning supplementary pensions or overtime. This agreement serves as a basis for sectoral and business negotiations. These negotiations have been under way for several weeks. On behalf of Mr Pierre-Yves Dermagne, the Minister of Labour, I would like to ask for the urgency of the text which implements a number of measures of this agreement in order to have the legal basis necessary to facilitate negotiations in sectors and enterprises.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u272	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u273	The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill introducing the "Traffic Back to Work" under the coordination of the "Coordinator Back to Work" in the compensation insurance of employees, No. 2313/1. The Government has also requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law introducing the "Back-to-work path" under the coordination of the "Back-to-work coordinator" in employee benefit insurance, No. 2313/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u274	Madam President, this law implements an important part of the budget notification 'Back to Work' for long-term sick people. As from 1 January next year, we must be able to start the Back to Work Coordinators. The draft law and the two royal decrees linked to it were already adopted by the CMR at first reading on 16 July this year, after which the advice of the GBA and the RvS was immediately requested. The advice of the GBA was only received at the beginning of October and the RvS wished to wait for this advice before giving its own advice. The two royal decrees still have to go to the RvS, and for the second reading to the CMR.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u275	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u276	Madam Chair, I have a request from the Minister of Justice to urgently seek the advice of the Council of State on the amendments Ms Matz made earlier on Bill No. 2175. A series of provisions must come into force before 1 December 2022, otherwise the short sentences will be carried out, which is impossible given the fourth Corona wave that currently affects our country. A postponement of these provisions would have harmful consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u277	Madam Chair, this is not about urgent requests for consideration of bills. It is up to you, in your capacity as president, to ask for urgency, if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u278	That's right. But I hear that the request is expressed not only to the Speaker but to the entire assembly, which, I believe, honours the members of the government. I agree to seek urgent treatment from the Council of State. The Council of State will do as it pleases.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u279	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u280	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters of 20 October 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 20 October 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 176/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sophie Rohonyi; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Tim Vandenput. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 176/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sophie Rohonyi; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Tim Vandenput. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u281	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the government has been able to form itself by negotiating women's rights, as it has been able to get on board the CD&V by putting in the fridge the text which was intended to decriminalize the IVG, but also to ease its conditions, when this text had been supported in committee by almost eight parties. This government agreement provides for two things: on the one hand, the evaluation of the IVG law by a multidisciplinary "independent" scientific committee. I put the term "independent" in quotation marks since it provides that it would be designated by the government parties. On the other hand, it provides that until there is consensus between the latter, the new law will simply not be voted on. Almost a year later, I was in law – it seems to me – to know what is the status of this famous scientific committee, which makes it up, how its members are experts and impartial, but also to know its schedule of work or its added value in relation to the evaluation committee of the IVG law, which has, moreover, recently given its report to Parliament. I was also entitled to wonder if there was any real hope that the CD&V, which, as we know, wielded a real veto on this issue, would suddenly be part of a pragmatic logic for the benefit of women. The Prime Minister simply replied in committee that the ball was in Parliament's camp. It must be noted, however, that it is simply muzzled by the government agreement and that it is, of course, the women who suffer from it. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this motion is simply to ask the government for clear guarantees so that the decriminalisation of the abortion and the relaxation of its conditions can be achieved as quickly as possible, as women have long wanted, but also the actors on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u282	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u283	Yes 106 Yes No. 30 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u284	These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters on 27 October 2021. These interviews were held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 27 October 2021. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 191/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Theo Francken; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Dries Van Langenhove; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jan Briers. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 191/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Theo Francken; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Dries Van Langenhove; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Jan Briers. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u285	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have had an interesting debate on the current asylum crisis in our country. It is an asylum crisis which is indeed not only a reception crisis, but also an effective crisis in terms of influx and processing of applications. It is therefore, by definition, an asylum crisis. A lot of people have to sleep on the street. Every day a lot of people are refused shelter. I've had to go through that as Secretary of State. That wasn't nice. There was a lot of commotion about that, also a lot of media attention. It's completely missing now. That doesn't mean the situation would be any less serious. Winter's coming. It has frozen on the streets of Brussels and many people have had to sleep on the streets in the cold because they cannot register, cannot register with the asylum services in Belgium. That in itself is a pressing humanitarian situation. We have had a whole debate on this with Mr Mahdi. Right now he's in Senegal working around return. That's a tough story, too. He's trying to do his best, and I wish him every success. I have also been to Senegal, and none of that is obvious. What needs to be done must be done. Hopefully it will have an effect. We have had a debate. I have made a number of recommendations to the government. Last week I also gave a press conference on the asylum crisis with a dozen concrete proposals which do not cost money, but which ensure that we bring our legislation to the level of the other European countries. I am thinking, for example, of a tightening of family reunification in the recognition of refugees. This was introduced by left-wing governments in France and the Netherlands, but also by Mrs Merkel. She is the great example of this government. She said we're buying dass. However, it has also introduced very strict legislation on family reunification. It has put a stop to family reunification with subsidiary protection for two years. Thousands of people couldn't let anyone happen. A quota is still applicable in Germany. We don't want anything more than that. We do not want more stringent legislation than Mrs Merkel's. We're just asking what Mrs Merkel did. I think this should be sellable, including on the left, Mr Dermine. We'll see. That's a recommendation. I am happy to put that recommendation to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u286	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the asylum crisis is constantly pretending to be a kind of natural phenomenon, as if we cannot do anything about all the illegal immigrants coming to Belgium and we are powerless. Sammy Mahdi does this all the time, as if he were bound with hands and feet and as if all the solutions were within the European Union, but that is not the case. These are political choices that can also be made at federal level in our country. We can stop the asylum crisis, and I can prove that with the motion that I tabled and which I put to the vote today. In the motion I list ten concrete measures which are realistic and are already being applied in many European countries, but unfortunately not in Belgium. Firstly, the rules on family reunification for asylum seekers need to be strengthened. The existing European framework in this area must be completed as much as possible, because, for the sake of clarity, the European Union allows for a much stricter policy than the one currently being pursued in Belgium. Our neighbouring countries make use of this, but unfortunately we do not. The same also applies, secondly, to those who are protected in the alternative. For them, family reunification should be completely reduced and subsequently limited to a quota. Thirdly, the rules also tighten up for unaccompanied minors. That is very necessary, because Belgium is a record holder of that type of asylum seekers, and this is causing a great deal of nuisance in our asylum-seekers' centres. Fourthly, there is the launch of distress campaigns through all possible channels in the top ten countries of origin of asylum seekers coming to our country. Fifthly, make work of a law on residential entrances, as recommended by the Bossuyt Committee, and make it possible for the police to finally tackle illegal immigrants efficiently and effectively. Ensure that illegal immigrants with children can be accommodated in adapted return units so that they can be returned. Seventh, finally speed up the work of the Master Plan on Closed Return Centres. That plan is crucial for sending back more illegals. Point 8 is even more crucial. Conclude readmission agreements with countries of origin of illegal migrants. If these countries do not want to cooperate, which is often the case, then finally negotiate from a strong position. Put visa sanctions and trade sanctions on the table. Also put a stop to development aid for all countries that refuse to take back their illegal nationals. In that case, I promise you, they will fold. Ninthly, at European level, there is a need for physical border barriers and for the necessary funds to be provided. The Polish case, which is completely out of control, shows how much it is necessary. Finally, at European level, let Belgium join the growing group of European countries that want to stop illegal mass migration rather than facilitate it. These are ten very concrete measures that can save Flanders and Europe from the downfall to which mass migration will otherwise lead us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u287	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u288	Yes 87 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u289	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u290	Yes 111 Yes No. [[28]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u291	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u292	Yes [[109]] Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 137 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u293	Amendments and reserved articles of the draft law organizing the tax and social greening of mobility (2170/1.9) Sustained amendments and articles of the draft law on fiscal and social greening of mobility (2170/1-9) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Joy Donné to Article 3.(2170/9) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Joy Donné on Article 3.(2170/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u294	Yes [[27]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u295	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Joy Donné to Rule 10.(2170/9) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Joy Donné on article 10.(2170/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u296	Yes [[26]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Joy Donné to Rule 11.(2170/9) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Joy Donné on Article 11.(2170/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u297	Yes [[26]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. All draft law organizing the tax and social greening of mobility (2170/8) Entire of the draft law on fiscal and social greening of mobility (2170/8) Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u298	Yes 78 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 137 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u299	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u300	Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u301	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u302	Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u303	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u304	Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u305	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Nabil Boukili to insert an Article 2/1 (n).(2295/4) Vote on Amendment No. 1 by Nabil Boukili to insert an Article 2/1 (n).(2295/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u306	Yes 34 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u307	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u308	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 59 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u309	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u310	Yes [[114]] Yes No. [[25]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u311	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u312	Yes 93 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 1971/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Proposal for a Law No 1971/1 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u313	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u314	Yes 124 Yes No. [[15]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 1927/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 1927/1 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u315	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u316	Yes 78 Yes No. 59 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 1759/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 1759/1 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip139x.u317	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, November 18, 2021 at 10 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 18 November 2021 at 10 a.m.
